ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! Please come into the hall. The Secretariat, please invite the National Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please prepare to register. Ladies and gentlemen, please place your cards at your places of employment and prepare for registration. Let's register, please. [[16:01:23]] There are 323 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose we move on to the agenda. You have been handed over a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on road safety (registration number 1061). I would like to consider the above-mentioned bill by summary procedure. Please support and vote. [[16:02:17]] For-195 Against 0. We're holding on to a 16-year-old. Decision taken. The report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kubrakov Aleksandro Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u2	Good day again. Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! Your consideration is given to the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on road safety. — Registration No. 1061. The purpose of the bill is to provide legal regulation for road safety audits through an independent, detailed, systematic, technical evaluation of engineering decisions on road components with a view to determining their impact on road safety, which is carried out at all stages from planning to entry into service and in operation with a view to ensuring road safety. The draft bill was based on the EU Directive 2008/96/EC of 19.11.2008 on the management of road infrastructure security. For the first time, nearly 30 years ago, Britain introduced a road safety audit procedure that is conducted at all stages from design to operation. Countries that have introduced road safety audits note that road safety audits are an effective means of warning road accidents. The risk of injury or death on our roads in Ukraine is 5-6 times higher than in developed European countries. On Ukraine’s highways alone, some 3.5 thousand people die each year. One of the reasons for this situation is the absence of a legislative basis in Ukraine to assess the impact of the road in general. In the light of the above, the bill proposes to amend Ukraine's Road Traffic and Roads laws in particular. Foresee the introduction of road safety checks and road safety checks, including on international and national roads, as mandatory. On everyone else, he's volunteering. The adoption of the bill will enable us to introduce road safety audits as a highly effective and economically advantageous tool for improving road safety. Please support the adoption of this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u3	Thank you. The report is given to the Vice - Chief of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure, Klimenko Yulia Leonidivni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u4	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Transport and Infrastructure Committee considered Bill 1061, discussed it and generally supports it until the first reading. Which brings it in. What is new in this bill? How he will change our lives. First of all, he introduces a new concept and a new service, which will be available somewhere in the right order, and somewhere on the left hand side, is a road safety audit. That means any project solution that's going to be offered by builders or contractors. Generals for national roads will have to undergo road safety audits. Such an audit will be calculated by the bill’s editors and will cost between 5 percent and 15 percent of the project’s cost. This means that the cost of roads will increase – this is a world practice. I want to point out that this is a good European world practice, really, to have car safety audits. Unfortunately, it's an institution and it's like an institution of auditors in Ukraine is currently missing. There's technical, you know, supervision and there's copyrighted supervision of design and building decisions. But auditing, indeed, should improve the safety of our roads. Unfortunately, since this institution is currently missing, we don't know at this point how these specialists will be certified. So the bill has to clearly determine how this is going to be done, so that this is not another propaganda and a corruption scheme. Usually in Europe, a person who becomes an auditor of roads, at least five years before that, is an assistant to a certified audience, has a profile education and works at least five years.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u5	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u6	He has 5 years of experience in road accidents and road accidents. So I urge you to support this bill in the first reading and to develop it for the second reading. Thank you very much. The committee supports this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u7	Thank you. Please register by faction: two in favour, two in opposition. Svets Sergey Fedorovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u8	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to a fellow skick.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u9	Alexander Aleksandrovich Skičko Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u10	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. You know, good intentions are paved the way to hell. Now, I'm carefully reading this 1061 bill that we've been handed out, a bill that predicts that now, at all stages of design, construction, entry into operation, and then after a period of exploitation, an auditor will act. Which audience, no one understands how it's going to get away, no one understands. But it's clear that, first of all, the cost of Ukrainian roads will increase because, according to the same law, the services of this audience will be included in the cost of building and operating these roads -- this time. The second question is, Your Honor. And don't you think the introduction of such an audience is a corrupt feed for someone? When their audiences come to control what seems to be the construction of roads, and actually in artificial mode, to look at who is allowed to enter into the operation, who is not allowed to give, who is willing to accept the construction of roads, who is not willing to accept the construction of roads. If we in this sessionary room have taken firm action to combat corruption in this convocation, let us fight this corruption rather than introduce additional organs that will give rise to this corruption. That is why I believe that this bill cannot be voted on. When it comes to building international roads, let's think about how international audiences can be. But with regard to the introduction of such artificial audiences in Ukraine, this means that corruption should be reintroduced. As Fatherland, we will not support this bill and we urge the House to postpone this bill because such things have nothing to do with quality roads in Ukraine. It is better to build roads according to the laws we have, to control the Court of Auditors and the State Audit Service so that the funds are used properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u11	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u12	And drawing on the responsibility of those who are engaged in corruption in road construction today. That's what we need to do, not create an additional corruption-generated structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u13	Thank you. Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliyovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u14	Mikhail Zabrodsky, European Solidarity. Please pass the word to Mikolia Veličkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u15	Mikola Velichkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u16	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! It is a good thing that there is such a thing as institutional memory, and our ninth convocation continues the matters that were instituted in the eighth convocation, namely, Bill 1061 is derived from the bill that was registered on November 17, 2017, under number 7320. Of course, we have to worry about our roads and worry about how they're stored, worry about it at the design stage and at the construction stage, and at the exploitation stage, it's extremely necessary. And today you can say that today is the day of transport and infrastructure, and that's very nice because, in fact, these are the things that concern our citizens. And "European Solidarity" will support this bill in the first reading. There are some warnings in GNEU, there are warnings in experts, there are some warnings in anti-corruption officials about things that we can discuss and improve to second reading. That's why "European Solidarity" voted in favour of this bill only on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak spoken? If there are no more speakers, the question is closed. Let's move on, let's move on to the vote. I'll bet you a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Law, registration number 1061, to amend some Ukrainian legislation on road safety management. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:13:05]] For 248 Against four, hold on to four. Decision taken. The bill was adopted in the first reading as a basis. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance. Show the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 206, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 6, "European Solidarity" – 20, "The Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 4, "The Voice" – 0, non-fractional – 12. In accordance with part two of article 166 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, honourable national deputies have put to the vote the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for the second reading of the bill, registration number 1061, to amend certain Ukrainian legislation on road safety. Please support and vote. [[16:14:17]] For 223 Against 14, holding back 61. The decision is not taken. Dear people. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. Project, you're being handed over a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of property rights. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, two MP factions have come to the fore. Following paragraph 15 of the first part of article 27 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, two factions were signed in exchange for the opening of the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, there has just been an unprecedented incident. At the meeting of the regulatory committee, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council, without discussion, that the decision should be taken to deprive the national deputy of Ukraine of the right to participate in the five plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to bring such a decision to the well-known electorate through the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to add time because you can't hear me. I would like to point out that we live in a democratic country, so in this democratic country that we are trying to preserve, only the representatives of the "Serve of the People" faction voted in favour of this decision. Representatives of all other factions voted against. This decision was made because Irina Heratchenko said from this rostrum, this was quoted, open information. I quote again, "Friends, you know, five years ago the Green Men captured Crimea, now the Green Men are taking over the Ukrainian Parliament and actually crossing it completely." In these words, Irina Heratchenko was not mentioned by any faction, no national MP. Irina Herashchenko, like all of us, protested against the constriction of democracy in Ukraine, against the establishment of dictatorship and totalitarianism, which are really equal to the facts of the destruction of Ukraine, which are done by different "green men". There was obviously no offense. This decision is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. Because by removing the MP's intrusiveness, we allowed the MP from this rostrum to express himself calmly and faithfully. This decision limits the right of our voters to vote in favour of European Solidarity. This decision limits the right of our faction. Because Irina Heraszczenko is not just a deputy, but a co-head of our faction. We find this decision unconstitutional, undemocratic, demeaning. I want to address all the factions that are in this room, including the factions of the People's Servants. There's a lot of my friends here, there's a lot of young people, there's a lot of people who know how to think clearly and who realize that now with these fingers, they just push the button, they kill democracy every day, they limit freedom of speech. Tomorrow they'll tell you the same thing. The government will change anyway, regardless of the fact that someone wants to build a dictatorship. Some will be imprisoned for their comments. This is the first call of the end of democracy in Ukraine that has never been made in years of Ukrainian independence. I ask you not to support the limitations of democracy. I ask you to be in solidarity and responsible. I ask you to build Ukraine together. We're an opposition faction, but we're a constructive faction. We're willing to work with everyone to do that. We ask you not to establish a dictatorship, to respect the rights of all voters and to be solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u20	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are returning to the order of the day. You have been given a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of property rights (registration No. 1056-1). It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[16:19:18]] For 228 Against five. We're holding on to 60. Decision taken. The report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Schuljak Oleniyevni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u21	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, distinguished presidency, distinguished national deputies, you are given the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of property rights (registration number 1056). For the past few years, the problem of the integrity of both real estate and corporate rights has become particularly acute. Not only do businessmen suffer from being deprived of their property rights to immovable property and corporate rights, but ordinary citizens also suffer from the fact that their apartments may be rewritten by criminals. The purpose of this bill is to provide additional guarantees for the protection of property rights in Ukraine, and it is envisaged that this law should be removed from the market of so-called accredited entities – such non-state organizations, which unfortunately served as "black" registrars and were part of criminal schemes. The bill also provides for the introduction of the principle of the simultaneous application of notarial and national acts. Notarial action and state registration of rights. Secondly, raise the responsibility for violating appropriate registration procedures. And thirdly, the obligation of notarial certification of contracts for the alienation of corporate rights is introduced. As a result of the adoption of the bill, the number of raids of immovable property and corporate rights is projected to decrease considerably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u22	Thank you. To report on the alternative bill 1056-1 is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stefanchuk Mikoliyovich. Mikola Alexiyovich, please. to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u23	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We all know with you that property in Ukraine is the highest economic good a person can have. Property must be intact and protected. For some reason, because of economic premeditations, we have in Ukraine a whole range of black notaries and black registrars who, without the will of the owners, re-register property and re-register corporate rights. A great bill has been proposed, which we have been working on, and has been amended as a whole, which since the entry into force of this law will make it impossible for black notaries and black registrants to do more. We want to create a system whereby every person, every entrepreneur, will be protected in their property rights. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask you to uphold this law. It is effective. It is needed today, both from a practical and a scientific point of view, balanced. I look forward to your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the co-reporter of the Committee on Legal Policy, Fris Igor Pavlovich, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u25	Good afternoon, dear fellows! As Nicholas said there are "black" notaries, it has happened that I am a white notary, the only notary who in this sessionary room in today's and the registrar was a notary, and I can actually appreciate this bill, which was passed by our colleague, Olena Schuljak. And it was worked by me and Mikola Alexiovich at the Committee of Legal Policy. In view of this and the commission of the Supreme Council, the committee worked on two bills, 1056 and 1056 with the badge 1. The basic positions of both bills in principle determine the cessation of activities, as already stated, of accredited entities, the introduction of notarized certification of contracts for the alienation of corporate rights, the introduction of the principle of the simultaneous application of state registration. At the same time, the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council has determined that Bill 1056 with the badge 1 is more appropriate, more motivated, has more quality indicators and is recommended to be based and accepted in the first reading. The positive features of this bill should be noted by those who determine that at the same time the notarial action of the state registration is not extended to those rights that provide for a certain time limit. Similarly, public and private notaries are allowed to do other notary actions when they are locked in the register. And get information from the State Register of Real Estate Rights and much more, for example, to form an inheritance. On the basis of the Legal Policy Committee, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of property rights (registration No. 1056-1, dated 6 September 2019) submitted by the national deputy Stefanchuk and other deputies, on the basis of which it is based and as a whole. And from myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u26	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u27	And I'm asking us to give us the opportunity to work on it and to submit a bill that will be fully motivated and will ensure that the rules and rights that citizens have in shaping their property and their corporate rights are respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u28	Thank you. Please register by faction: two-for-two-again. Tarasenko Taras Petrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u29	Please pass the word to Sergio Demchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u30	Sergey Demchenko, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u31	Colleagues, I will support and our entire faction supports this bill. What I'm saying is that it's aimed at taking measures as soon as possible that will put an end to the technical raids that exist today in our country. That's what this is all about. A technical checkup suggests that when you wake up in the morning, you see that you are no longer the owner of your property, at 10 a.m. you see that the owner of your property is a new person, and so every hour has changed, every hour, I'm sorry, into a new owner, and you're no longer clear what your relationship is to this property at all. This is the kind of technology that has led to such a situation as accredited subjects. Who are they? It's the cash registers. The pocket registerers were, unfortunately, introduced by the past minister of justice who introduced this system, I think, precisely for the sake of MPs and other persons who at the time had the capacity to do so to establish pocket MPs. I want to say that in the "Serial of the People" faction, members of the "Serve of the People" do not need cash registers. It is the elimination of these registers of accredited entities that provides for this law. In addition, this law provides for the identification of the personal identity of all persons with appropriate registration keys to date so that there are no such cases that the key to registration is used by the key to the registration of unknown subjects who have received it for unclear reasons. This bill is supported by the Minister of Justice for today and is defined, along with us, as the first step to overturn the phenomenon of raiding our country at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u32	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, our faction has worked closely on these bills, believes that the amended bill with the one badge is much better, and in general the order of dealing with black registrations and black notaries, which is equally important, is relevant. From my own practice, I can bring in dozens of names of black notaries, for which I have addressed the previous minister of the justice of Petrenko, his deputies, but unfortunately I've come to realize that this was a futile matter. So the first thing I'd like to do is to look at the representatives of the new Ministry of Justice, to analyze the practice of how these rights were carried out by the same notaries about property in Zaporozhye, Dnipropetrovsk, Lviv, Kiev. And the first norm that we're introducing here is the very finding of property, the direct attitude of it to the office of the notary at the location, is very important. No less important is the question that is directly related to the absence of exceptions, unfortunately even the 1st sign has an exception if it is done by electronic signature on the respective portal. Our faction will insist that this is excluded from practice. Because we're going to see very quickly, in a short period of time, when similar agreements will be made by new black notaries and new black registers. In general, we believe that the bill has been drafted in quality enough, and for the first time, perhaps on such important bills, the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office is that it should be supported only in the first reading. That's why we're going to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u34	Thank you. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction. Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u35	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable Predestination! This bill is very important today, and it's very necessary -- it's the first. The other one. It allows for the strengthening of the protection of the rights of immovable property owners and corporate rights. Third. It's going to make things more difficult for the raiders, and they're going to be very limited in the last few years, and they're going to be at a very dangerous scale. I know very well that when I was in office as First Vice Prime Minister from September 2017 to May 19, a commission was set up where we held ten meetings with the members of the Supreme Council. We've considered more than 27 issues and we've come to realize how much damage business, industry, and most of all, the growing mistrust of foreign investors in Ukraine. What I'm saying is that it's the proposals that sound in the bill today. First. Cessation of accredited entities The other one. The introduction of mandatory notarial certification of contracts for the alienation of corporate rights Third. Implementation of the principles of simultaneous notarial action and state registration. Four. Increased responsibility for the breach of appropriate registration procedures. These are the procedures that are necessary. At the same time, we understand that this law needs to be redrafted, we will not vote in favour of Bill 1056. We will support the faction of the political party "European Solidarity", based on Bill 1056-1. Working with the High Council committee for the second reading will allow for a timely decision. Second, Mr. Head, I suggest we shorten the deadline. This law is essential to increase today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u36	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, have they all spoken out? Question completed. Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for the first reading of the draft Law (registration number 1056-1), which was supported by the Committee on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of property rights. Please support and vote. [[16:33:42]] For 327 Against - 2. He's holding on to one. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please tell me if we can consider this bill. No, it's not. Okay. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for the second reading of the bill (registration number 1056-1) on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of property rights. Please support and vote. [[16:34:28]] For 279 Against - 1, holding - 49. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been handed over a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Succession of Ukraine on the abolition of acts of the Soviet Union and the USSR in Ukraine (registration number 1075). I would like to consider the above-mentioned bill in summary procedure. Please support and vote. [[16:35:12]] For 257 Against - 1, holding - 54. Decision taken. The bill will be considered in summary procedure, The report is given by Roxolani Andriyovni Podlasi, a national deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, by Bill 1075, we propose to abolish acts of Soviet legislation in Ukraine. The succession was justified in the early 1990s for a young state, but today we're 28 and we're pulling a suitcase without a pen. We do not have a complete basis for Soviet legislation, and business spends a lot of time and money on finding out the contents of Soviet acts. Why? Article 3 of the Ukraine Law on Succession is a black box from which any dishonest official can get some law of the U.S.R.R. and present a businessman as valid, implying bribes, and you and I will never know about such facts and we will not be able to repeal this law. Legal uncertainty always creates pressure on business, so it creates pressure on the business of the Housing Code and the Code of Law on the work of the 71st year of birth. We have all the Apostolics sitting on FOPs not only because of tax optimization but also because we are working on labour legislation today, and neither the employer nor the employee. I understand your concerns, we are asked how to undo acts that are unknown, but we have had this experience. In 2014, the Cabinet revoked all health standards and regulations by one decision, and a few years later, the Ministry of Health reports that there is no evidence that the number of poisonings or diseases has increased due to the cancellation of Sappinos. I would also like to point out that 1075 does not repeal the Declaration of State Sovereignty, the Act on the Declaration of Independence, the acts relating to the territorial system or membership of Ukraine, the Ukrainian RSR in international organizations. 1075 does not apply to the transfer of Crimea to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u38	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u39	We propose to finally put a dot in Ukrainian Soviet history. Today we are building a state with modern rules written for Ukrainian people, not for the service of the Soviet totalitarian system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u40	Thank you. A member of the Committee on Legal Policy, Network Alexander Alexandrovich, is given the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u41	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 30 August 2019, reviewed at its meeting on 10 September 2019 the draft Act amending the Law on the Succession of Ukraine on the abolition of acts of the Soviet Union and the Soviet Union in Ukraine, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies and other deputies. The purpose of the bill is to ensure everyone's right to know his or her rights and duties, as well as to repeal legislation that is difficult or impossible to enforce. In order to achieve the objectives set out in the bill, it is envisaged, firstly, that Ukraine should repeal its legislation of the USSR and the USSR, in addition to those related to the acquisition of Ukraine's independence and other important issues, such as the administrative and territorial system, state borders, international obligations, and organizational arrangements and individual acts. Secondly, implement the temporary operation of individual acts of the Soviet period by 30 September 2020. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Succession of Ukraine on the abolition of acts of the Soviet Union and the Soviet Union in Ukraine and to adopt, as a whole, the proposals put forward in the Committee's conclusions, namely, the following: The laws and other acts of the State authorities and the administration of the Union of the RSR and the Ukrainian RSR, in addition to the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine of 16 July 1990, the Act of Independence of Ukraine of 24 August 1991, the Acts relating to the Autonomous Republic of Crime, the Administrative and Territorial Authority of Ukraine and the state border of Ukraine, the Acts relating to the membership of the Ukrainian RSR in international organizations, acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u42	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u43	the acts which consent to the obligations of international agreements concluded by the Union of the Russian Federation or by the Ukrainian Soviet Union, acts of an organisational and orderly nature and individual acts do not take effect in Ukraine." End of quote. A report from the committee on this subject during the plenary session of the Supreme Council is the appointment of a member of the Legal Policy Committee, Netzko O.O. And finally, there's only one thing I'd like to add.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u44	Alexander Aleksandrovich, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, let's go, let's go, let's go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u45	I just wanted to say that in times of independence we built a fundamentally different system of law that had nothing to do with the old Soviet authoritarian system.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u46	In the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u47	That's why we need to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u48	Thank you. Two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two Nikita Marina Victorian, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u49	Please pass the word to Andrew Costin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u50	Andrew Costin, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u51	Honorary Presidium, Your Honor, we have been living under some laws and regulations of the RSR Union for 28 years. If this was justified in the early years of independence, we now have a situation that no one knows what acts of the RSR Union are still operating on our land. I'm going to tell you that no one can even theoretically and practically calculate and figure out what acts of the Soviet Union are doing, because there is no basis for this legislation. We believe it is time to put an end to this practice. Several times before that Parliament had tried to risk Soviet legislation, but failed to do so. There are many problems regarding the application of the legislation of the USSR. First, actual social relations are governed by norms that are restricted, so we don't know them. Secondly, serious legal difficulties also occur in cases where the content of the legal act of the USSR is established. Because in such a case it only works in a part that does not conflict with the laws of Ukraine. And how do we figure that out is a very difficult question. Well, thirdly, there are undecided legal coalitions that arise in cases where a certain circle of social relations is regulated by acts of USSR legislation and is not regulated by Ukraine's legislation. We believe that this law should be supported in the first reading. We have tried to apply for the protection of Ukraine as a subject of international law since 1944. So the law was worked by the committee, we know there's something else to work on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u52	Let me finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u53	Please, my colleague, support this bill in the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u54	Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u55	Prince. Princevich, please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u56	Prince Ruslan, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u57	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, dear colleagues, well, frankly, I would have warned us of what we're doing right now. Think about it. We are making fundamental changes to one of the fundamental laws of an independent Ukraine at the evening session. Several governments have tried to raise this subject, and several chambers of Parliament have tried to raise it. But every time they were very careful in the kind of way that I think is very, frankly, dangerous experiments, given that this refers to a whole range of actually areas of law and such extremely fundamental things for our citizens. Does any MP who votes understand what he is voting for? Does he know that this law provides that a few months later, there will be no Housing Code, no Labour Code, no Consumer Rights Act, no Social Protection for Chernobyl, and so on! A series of things that directly affect the lives of our citizens. People will be deprived of the right to work, without the right to housing, and so forth. We are now moving away from a fundamental and conceptual approach to legislation. If, starting with the new Constitution, which we adopted in 96, instead of the old one, and predicted that the old one had become obsolete from the moment, the Soviet old, from the moment it became effective, and then the same path was followed by changes in all legislation. The latest changes to the Law on All-Ukrainian Local Referendums, which became effective in connection with the adoption of the Law on All-Ukrainian Referendum; the Law on Languages in the Ukrainian RSR of 89, which became effective after the adoption of the Law on Language in Ukraine and so on. All of them were not valid until new laws were in place. Now there will be a huge, wide - open legislative gap that we will not be able to quickly fill in in no way! This will lead to unknown consequences, serious consequences.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u58	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u59	and maybe a social explosion. I'm asking you, let's approach this kind of thing with balance. Let's give a normal, thoughtful, smart, at least three-year transition period.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u60	Thank you. The word is given to the Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u61	Dear colleagues! I ask you very, very carefully to approach this bill. I would like to point out immediately, "The Opposition Platform for Life" will not vote in favour of this bill. I. Why? First. According to the logic of this bill of 1 January 2020, the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR on 28 February 1991, will cease to be in force. And this is a real catastrophe in the social protection of the Chernobyl population. And if that happens, you and I understand, this Supreme Council is not going to last a year, but, God forbid, it's going to last until the end of the year. So we don't have to cancel people's last support for the state right now. The second question that also has catastrophic consequences is the automatic loss of validity of the Labour Code. The Code of Laws on Ukraine's Work, adopted by the Supreme Council of the USSR on December 10th, 71st. This will lead to a collapse in labour regulation and the protection of the rights of workers. And today, too, it is impossible to do that. Of course, we can now support transnational corporations that really are against our Labour Code. But that's what we're about to take away any rights of everyone working in the country. So we suggest that, if you do accept this bill without our participation in the first reading, there is no summary procedure, and that we work on this bill for the second reading very, very carefully so that in no way can we now make such a big mistake. Note this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u62	Bondar Victor Vasilovich, MP for the Future. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u63	Dear friends, dear colleagues, in Ukraine, as you know, there has been a decommunization of graphic names. But we're actually still in the process of de-setizing Soviet laws. But to the extent that we are scrupulous, my friends, in this Parliament we have approached the decommunization of geographical names. Let's still be consistent on this issue. Maybe before you bury anything, you have to give birth. We understand, my friends, that the legislation of Ukraine and the legislation of the Soviet Union were based and based on the principle of different principles, and this is what makes them conceptually divergent. But we must look at the root of the problem so that we do not break down the wood today and the days ahead. Especially with regard to the Housing Codex. We define that the terms set out in this bill by September 30, 2020, for the adoption of a new edition of the Housing Code, for the adoption of a new version of the Labour Code may not be sufficient. And that's why the new Housing Code needs to be prepared today because there's going to be a legal vacuum in such important areas that apply to all the citizens of our country that we're responsible for. We consider it appropriate to call on the Ukrainian government to gather and generalize a point of view today on the appropriateness of repealing the acts of the USSR and the USSR in Ukraine regarding all ministries and departments, all without exception. And this will help ensure a holistic and systematic approach to solving the issue. This also applies to labour relations, this applies to shipping in particular, because there is an ODSR statute in the 67th year, and there will also be a legal vacuum. That's why our parliamentary group "For the Future" will abstain from voting on this bill. I think we need to take a closer look at it and prepare in detail, scrupulously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u64	Oleg Makarov, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, what this law says is impeccable. That this law is impeccable to say that the minister of justice was present three times in the committee to discuss this law, the bill. As a result of the discussion, the text of the bill was completely changed. We have repeatedly stressed that the adoption of this law can result in large legal gaps. It is legal uncertainty that will arise, not fail. The bill annuls both acts relating to Ukraine’s international obligations and can repeal domestic laws, such as the Labour Code. I did not see the adoption of the Code of Law on the Work of the New Code in the agenda of this session. And that's the main thing, because there's not enough time. I ask you not to apply part two of Rule 116 of the Rules in this case and not to vote in favour of a reduced procedure for submission.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u66	Thank you. Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u67	Thank you, sir! Sergei Vlasenko. The Fatherland faction. Well, let's have a little professional discussion again instead of shouting and political slogans. Dear colleagues, the adoption of this law violates the fundamental principle of law enforcement. That is to say, there are all kinds of legal acts that regulate entire areas of law and do nothing in exchange. Yeah, old Soviet legislation. Yeah, sometimes it's not exactly right and it's not quite right. Yes, it does not meet the challenges of modern times. But let's do it in normal countries. Let's develop a new Labour Code, vote it out and automatically repeal the Labour Code. In one day, tens of millions of people cannot be left unregulated in their daily affairs — employment, employment, vacations, wages, and so forth. The same situation with the Housing Codex. The same situation with the Code of Administrative Offences. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u68	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u69	Let's go the normal way. Let's develop and adopt fast enough acts to replace outdated Soviet legislation. And we're going to have a normal process. Believe me, every practicing lawyer knows that poor legal regulation is tens of millions of times better than lack of legal regulation. I urge everyone to quickly develop normative acts to replace the acts of the Soviet Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (registration number 1075), the name of the amendment to the Ukrainian Act on the Succession of Ukraine on the abolition of acts of the Soviet Union and the USSR in Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote and support. [[16:54:53]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 210, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 0, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 4. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the draft law. Dear friends, we move on, we move on to the law. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Declined, the bill is rejected, yes. Dear colleagues! I got it. Dear colleagues, Bill 1075 on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on the Succession of Ukraine on the lifting of acts of the Soviet Union and the Soviet Union in Ukraine is considered to be rejected. Thank you. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote for the project. discussion of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of judicial authorities (registration number 1008, 1008 with badge 1). Mr. President, I would like to begin by asking questions about the consideration of this bill under reduced procedure. Please vote and vote. [[16:57:16]] For 238. 238. Decision taken. I give the floor to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich. Please, Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u71	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by a bill introduced by the President of Ukraine in the order of article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, defined as urgent. On amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the activities of judicial authorities. What are we talking about? The point is that today’s judicial reform has not produced the expected results. The purpose of this bill is to improve the activities of judicial authorities. First of all, the main purpose of the law is to reboot the High Council, I apologize, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, to improve the work of the High Council of Justice. A higher-skilled panel of judges to this day has never conducted a fully qualified evaluation of judges. As a result, the same judges who deal with the same cases receive different judicial rewards. In order to eliminate this, it is proposed that this law be approved. Secondly, it is proposed to reduce the number of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine from 200 to 100. There's a lot of arguments for that, and I'll just give you a few. The number of Supreme Court judges in the world ranges from 9 to 120 in France. Ukraine is one of the poorest countries in Europe with 200 Supreme Court judges who have one of the highest judicial awards in Europe. In addition, the Supreme Council of Justice, which is to consider the issue of bringing judges to justice, is artificially delaying the consideration of such disciplines. Today, there are disciplinary exercises that began in 2016-17. This is a way of keeping judges dependent. That is why the President introduced this bill and asks him to consider the Supreme Council and accept it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u72	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. I'd like to invite a co-rapporteur of the Ukrainian National Deputy John Ivanovich Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u73	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I have submitted to Bill No. 1008 an alternative bill and the purpose of this bill was to draw attention to the fact that the law, which was passed by the President and defined as urgent, requires substantial work. In particular, this refers to the work of the relevant committees that will be involved in the selection of members of the High Council of Justice and the qualified panel of judges. I believe as the author of an alternative bill that we should apply to the selection of judges a practice that will ensure the selection of as many independent and good representatives as possible in the High Council of Justice and the Higher Qualification of Judges. In addition, I believe that the bill, which the President has also submitted, also needs substantial work to be done on the second reading of the reform of the relevant bodies of the High Council of Justice and of the Supreme Court of Justice: its reformation, the analysis of the number of judges to be serving in the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Given the workload of this court, given the number of cases that are being dealt with there, and that is why I propose that this bill in the session room be sent for processing, it has been finalized by the relevant committee of profile, and then we could consider a really professional bill that will allow us to build a judicial system based on the principles of legality and integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u74	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on the Legal Policy of National Deputy Valery Ivanovich Bozik. Please, Valery Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u75	The President-in-Office of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy reviewed at its meeting the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of the Judiciary (Registration No. 1008) of 29 August 2019, submitted by the President and designated as urgent, as well as an alternative bill which had just been announced under registration No. 1008-1 of 6 September 2019, submitted by National Deputy Krulk Ivan Ivanović. The members of the committee agree on the need for a comprehensive solution as soon as possible to the organization of the activities of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges and the High Council of Justice, which is proposed by Project 1008, which will result in improved access to justice of citizens and ensure the right to a timely and fair judgement. In this regard, the Committee on Legal Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the activities of judicial authorities (registration number 1008) from 29 August 2019, submitted by the President of Ukraine, on the basis of consideration, and in general. And the bill to amend some of the Ukrainian laws on the activities of judicial authorities (registration number 1008-1) of September 6, 19th, submitted by National Deputy Krulk, reject. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u76	Thank you, Valery Ivanovich. Let's move on to the discussion. I suggest you sign up: two in, two in the opposite. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u77	Thank you. I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy of Southan, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u78	Please, Prince of Ruslan's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u79	I'd like you to pass it on to the People's Deputy. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u80	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, many things have been said just before me, but there was one thing that this bill has not been said about. This bill on two things: the destruction of the Supreme Court and the destruction of the High Qualification of the State Judicial Administration in various ways. With regard to the Supreme Court, by reducing the number of judges in the law, it is stipulated that the number of judges now automatically from 200 judges should be halved by the selection of some incomprehensible one to be conducted by the State Court Administration. So I understand that the selection has been made, it just needs to be enlightened, or it's not clear what procedures. When it's clear that "choice" is a bad word, because it's a bad word, you know, kind of winds up something to others, then at the last point, when it comes to transfer, the possibility, in the appeals courts, they wrote "competition selection," and then they probably came out, and the contest can't be held twice for the same position. And no one knows how to implement this bill. But why implement it? We had 120 judges three months ago, 200 of them in the Supreme Court, and so far they can't handle all the cases they've been handed over to them by senior specialized courts. Nearly 70,000 cases remain unresolved. Imagine that these things are never going to be considered by anyone, because they're going to have to deal with the things that are coming to them, 100 to 150 thousand cases a year. We're going to have a big problem. I understand that today the Minister of Justice has already spoken, started talking about private courts, probably this bill is the beginning of this story. As far as the CDC and the SAA are concerned, it's an unprecedented thing at all. Consider what we want to punish them for and in what way. As it turns out, one of the deputy heads of the SAA did not introduce an electronic court, according to the authors of the bill, proposes the head of the deputies and the SAA, and the CDC to illustrate -- imagine this -- to extend to them the operation of the Lustration Act, to determine that they contributed to the criminal regime of Yanukovic, although that law had ceased to exist in 2014 and was only in force for an appropriate period of operation of the Janukovic regime. In view of this, I believe that this is a very dangerous, trialable bullet that will result in me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u81	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u82	Not only the destruction of the entire judicial system, but also the actual beginning of the Maidan illustration. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u83	Thank you. The only thing I understand is because you signed up for it, you support this bill, right? I'd like to invite you to the next address of the representative of the Volos-Osadchuk People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u84	Please pass the word to Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u85	Please pass the word to the national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u86	From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u87	The Voice faction, even during the election campaign and with the mouth of the leader of Svetoslav Vakarczuk, and the other members of our faction, was in favour of the modernization of the judicial system. But we didn't want to call it an update, we actually wanted to promote the idea itself. Why? Indeed, internationalists are being introduced, but do they have a decisive voice? No! No! And when international organizations ask the majority, "Give me time to evaluate, give me time to work out," what happens? We're pushing for adoption, I'm sorry, the proponents of judicial reform. We're talking about re-loaded courts and reducing the number of judges. Absurd. We're not overestimating, we're overestimating. That's why we're for the upgrade of the judiciary, but we're against the propaganda of the idea itself. Our position of faction is to get the initiator back to work. There must be no hurry. Last time the Supreme Council made a mistake -- instead of introducing recommendations from public experts, the international environment, they were quick to make a decision. Don't step on the same rakes. Most people look like this, take the name of the law as a scenario to do as promised to the electorate, and put it into a bill, you don't know what. No props for the right ideas! Return to work on the subject of the legislative initiative, call on the international community, public organizations, and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u88	Thank you. Please give the floor to the representative of the Fatherland faction, Sergey Vlasenko, National Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the entire Parliament for the previous vote. That's the first thing I want to do. Actually, it's real. It's really common sense. [[Applause]] And that's really what we had to do. Thank you all who voted in favour, who did not vote, who voted against. As far as this bill is concerned. You know, look at how this system works. It's written in the Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges, in the part of the first article 37, the word "no more than two hundred" is replaced by the word "no more than a hundred." A simple phrase, in fact, whose goal looks very and very suspicious, is to get control of the Supreme Court. That's what control over the Supreme Court sounds like. I've been in this Parliament since 2008, and I haven't voted in favour of Janukovich's reform in the 10th year. I did not support the reform of the previous government, realizing that such phrases were not intended by anyone to create an honest and independent court, but rather to gain control of the judicial system. We expect the President of the Greens to make unfortunate changes to legislation that look very suspiciously suspicious. We expect President Vladimir Greene's presentation of a comprehensive great judicial reform that would provide a single, qualitative fulfillment, a new and qualitative fulfillment of the judicial system, and ensure that this new judicial body makes honest, fair and legal decisions. The only thing we want to hear is the whole concept of how this is going to happen, not the pieces that look very suspiciously not only in relation to the Supreme Court, but in relation to the High Qualifications Commission of Judges. I have many questions to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u90	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u91	I have many questions for the acting or former head of Mr. Sergey Koziakov. But illustration is a restriction on a regime official who is officially recognized as authoritarian or criminal. So I think that Kozyak's activity for today is under that definition, at least not yet. So once again, I ask very carefully to refer to this bill. Again, I address Mr. President.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u92	Ten more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u93	I appeal to Mr. President to submit a comprehensive bill on judicial reform that will ensure the real independence of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u94	Thank you. May I have a word with the "For the Future" group, please, National Deputy Bondar? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u95	Thank you, Your Honor. An extremely important bill. It's like we want to reform the judicial branch again and finally give people peace of mind so that they can be tried. We have seen for four years the reform of the judiciary of the last cabinet of the last president. Over the course of four years, dozens of courts have not worked in their places, nor have they worked because there are no judges. Hundreds of judges, who have never been reappointed, have received salaries and money from the budget. Thousands of judges who have undergone reagents have actually reassigned those who are loyal and who are qualified to carry out orders and assignments. And those who did not or were not very obedient there cleaned them up, sorry for that word. And today, we are again proposing a reform that. locally, in part, we only swap tops – the Supreme Court of Ukraine to be obedient, reduce them by 100 and continue to move. We don't yet see a comprehensive approach. What is really going to happen? What Will Change for People? Will it make people feel any better? Will the judges get to work soon? Let's assign this law to hundreds of judges to places that are not there today and they're only counting, free vacancies? Are we going to open dozens of courts in areas where people can't even file documents because there are barn locks hanging? No, this law does not decide. So we're going to say, let's still send out the law for redrafting, the draft law. And let the bill's author and the profile committee work. And indeed, we will complete a comprehensive reform to appoint normal, worthy judges so that people will finally feel relieved, so that they can come to court and not wait for a decision for years, but in a week, two, three, a month to go through the procedure and get a decision that is normal, legal, which will set them up and make them feel that justice is, and that there will be no such marches at all to the Supreme Court itself. The Supreme Court, as throughout the world, should be the last instance when it is a very difficult matter. And today it's not reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u96	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u97	So we suggest that we abstain, not vote in favour of this bill, and return it to the committee, let them work, prepare a new normal bill, and give people a chance at last.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u98	Thank you. We've got two more people on motive. And please, after that, we're going to the vote. I give the floor to the opposition platform for the life of the Lukashev People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u99	Lukashev Alexander, 113 district, Luganshina. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable colleagues to the inadequacy of the title of the bill of its contents and substance. If we are considering a bill to amend certain laws governing the operation of judicial authorities, instead we have proposals to reduce the number of Supreme Court judges. I ask you to recall the situation that we had on December 15, 2017, when there were several tens of thousands of pending cases left in the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, five to eight years after which no one had considered them. If we reduce the number of judges today, people will never receive judicial protection. You can't do that. And I urge you to stop this permanent permanent judicial reform, which is aimed at harassment and direct oppression and harassment of judges. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u100	Thank you. Please, on the grounds of the People's Servant faction, the People's Deputy Kucher. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u101	Thank you, colleagues. In turn, I ask you to support this bill. I expressed my position quite emphatically at the meeting of the committee, where the representatives of the Supreme Court were also involved, the representatives of the High Court of Justice. We've also considered the position of the IDP. I'm going to take a quick look at what's really behind every reform that's been done by the relevant institutions. Now we're talking about the High Court of Judges, the Supreme Council of Justice. I've already stated, and I'm going to repeat that we've actually created a monster from the WCC who's made his own rules of play and played this game by assigning appropriate judges or by not missing judges. During the night, these rules changed to specific subjects. And we all know that. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. We know that the IPR for today was only a ceremonial function. The IDP is a constitutional body. And the only body under the Constitution is the judiciary. So let's not twist it. We have WCC, in fact, under this law, for the WCC.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u102	Let me finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u103	For the CCCC, we have justice and courts for the CCCC, not the CCCC for the courts. So, dear fellows, let's be honest, I urge you, we need you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u104	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Everybody ready? Please take your seats. The discussion is over, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Law (Registration No. 1008). Project Name: Amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the activities of judicial authorities. People's deputies, please vote and support. [[17:18:36]] For 238. Decision taken. For 238, against 54, holding 46. Dear National Deputies! The factions, please. Please, by the factions. "People's Servant" – 236, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 0, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 2. Dear National Deputies! According to part two of article 16 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Again. That's understandable. I'm making this offer. She picks up, let's go. He's not picking up. Let's go 14. I would like to vote on the proposal to cut in half the preparation time for the second reading of the bill (registration number 1008). The title of the bill is to amend some laws of Ukraine regarding the activities of judicial authorities. People's deputies please support and vote. [[17:19:52]] For 222 The decision is not taken. The bill will be considered in full procedure. Thank you. Let's move on. Next question. I announce a review of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the grounds for referral to the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court and on the terms of return of administrative cases (project registration number 1026). Dear colleagues, before I go to the consideration of this project, I put it to a vote in favour of a reduced procedure. Please vote and vote. [[17:20:53]] For 243 Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on to the simplified procedure. I invite the representative of the President of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Fedor Vladimirovich Venislavski. Please, Fedor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u105	Dear colleagues! This is precisely the bill that partially answers the questions asked behind this rostrum regarding the overcrowding of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in matters. Indeed, today there are some 70,000 cases pending before the Supreme Court of Ukraine, according to one of the speakers. But it should be borne in mind that all cases have moved from the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the present Supreme Court are virtually not being considered, that is the first. The second, honourable colleagues, a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine in the order of article 93, recognized as urgent, aims in part or perhaps even radically to address the problem of overload of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, namely the Great Court of Justice. The point is that, as of today, when a defendant challenges a court decision on grounds of infringement of the rules of substantive or subject-matter jurisdiction, the cassation institution is obliged at any stage of the case to refer such a case to the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court. As a result, percentages of 90 to 95 cases are the very cases of subjective or subjective jurisdiction. In order not to allow the abuse of procedural rights, in order not to delay the proceedings, is proposed by the President of Ukraine under registration number 1026, which aims to prevent the abuse by the parties to the trial of the right of appeal at any stage of the trial on grounds of subjective or subjective jurisdiction. A participant who did not claim a violation at the previous courts would not have the right to do so in a court of law. A participant who also accuses the subject subject of a case under this bill will be obliged to refer to practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u106	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u107	He will be bound to refer to the practice of the Great Court of Justice. And if the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court in its legal positions has already raised a question of the same question, the position of the same question can then be realized by the participant. Thus the proposed bill solves the complex problem of overcrowding of the Great Court of Justice. So we ask you to support this bill, to vote on the basis as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u108	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. I would like to invite you to the floor of the Vice-President of the Committee on Legal Policy of the People's Deputy, Andrija Evgeniovich Kostin. Please, Andrew Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u109	Dear colleagues! This bill is very important, it really solves a question that will not allow the abuse of procedural rights to some colleagues who apply this gap in procedural legislation. This bill is supported by both the Supreme Court and the committee after considering Bill 1026 at its meeting on September 10th: The Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the grounds for referral to the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court and on the terms of return of administrative cases (registration No. 1026) from 29 August 2019, submitted by the President of Ukraine, is urgent. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the grounds for referral to the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court and on the terms of return of administrative cases submitted by the President of Ukraine as an urgent result of the consideration to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. I'd like you to support my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u110	Thank you. Let's move on to the factions, I'm asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the statement of the People's Deputy Step from the "Serve of the People" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u111	Please pass the word to Roman Babi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u112	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u113	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! Let us consider why the Great Court of Justice was created. This is a kind of upgrade to the court of cassation, which is called upon to deal with important matters that are aimed at generalizing the legal system, to improve it, as well as to deal with usually jurisdictional disputes. What do we have now? Now we have an improperly formulated norm, which, if mentioned in the case of a complaint about a violation of the rules of jurisdiction, the Great Chamber is obliged to take the matter up before its conduct and consider it. What does the proposed bill decide? He suggests setting up filters that will remove the possibility of abuse for the parties and allow the Great Chamber to be dismantled, allowing it to work more effectively and quickly. Now there are no non-lethal parties, such as those who are not interested in a quick solution to the dispute. They artificially point out in their complaints a reference to a violation of jurisdiction and the Great Chamber is forced to consider them, and about 90 percent of such matters are on these grounds when the party misuses its rights. I urge the Hall to support this bill. Since this, including allowing a faster resolution of disputes, is expected, including investors interested in the fast and efficient existence of the system in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u114	Thank you. I invite the People's Deputies faction Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, please. National MP Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u115	Good evening! I want to continue my colleague Sergei Vlasenka's speech, because I think the argument is quite obvious. To our faction the easiest, the "Fatherland" faction didn't vote in favour of our view completely inappropriate judicial reform, both in Janukovic's version and in the final version. Now think about what you're doing. The very idea of the Great Court came from the very concept of judicial reform that was proposed. And now you want to pull out the bottom chair, thinking that the whole structure is going to stick. That's not gonna work. If we have to make a decision, how do we unload the Supreme Court, well, we have to start with how these 70,000 cases will continue to be dealt with? Find me an answer to that in the bill. What will our citizens, the legal, the physical persons awaiting consideration do next? Where is the answer? The second question. If we really want to reform the entire judicial system, then let's not capture any elements that won't allow the judicial system to continue to work in general. We understand that we need to introduce dozens of rights into procedural legislation. Because it's supposed to be written that you just don't accept such statements directly to the Chamber, and we need to understand: and what will be further approved in each particular case by the courts at other institutions. So our proposal: not to play this, judicial reform is a very difficult thing to beat by tens of millions of citizens. We have a very fast pace of work that allows us to present, adopt, and continue to move forward, including in the trial committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u116	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u117	Otherwise, there will be chaos and injustice, for in such circumstances it will be easier for judges to break the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u118	Thank you. I invite you to the statement of the representative of the "European Solidarity" faction of the national MP Ruslan Petrovic Knazević. Please, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u119	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I would like to thank the session room for allowing us to introduce, as we do, conceptual rights to the second reading of the previous law. Because it's very important that this kind of thing that applies in general, think about the whole sector, but not the sector, it's an independent branch of power. We're so quiet, we want to change under the cover of night. I am very grateful for this. About what our representative of the President said. He said that all of these cases, which are now before the Supreme Court, are cases of the Supreme Court of Ukraine -- no, they are cases that have already been referred to the new Supreme Court by the higher specialized courts, and in this danger, because the Supreme Court of Ukraine, in fact, was a decorative court on such cases, because there were kind of filters that you now want to introduce about the Great Court. Then why would she need it at all? Imagine who will be involved in the unity of judicial practice if the court is tried. If the Great Chamber is unable to determine what matters are under consideration and which do not belong. You want to put all of this in the court of cassation, and it's done now completely consciously just to avoid the possibility of bringing matters to the Grand Chamber of Administration. Administrative justices. It's a justice between a man and a state. The State will deliberately block the possibility for a person to seek justice in the courts to the end. To that end, you say that a person has to be justified, to write clearly others. The decision of the other court of cassation in its complaint to the Grand Chamber or to refer to the practice of the Grand Chamber and then the court of cassation will determine for itself. Listen, guys, the court of cassation is not supposed to do this, it's the room itself that can do this. And then at least a little bit may remain a glimmer of justice. I'm asking for a second reading of the date also a large time frame that is normal for processing. I assure you that we will make the amendments that duly correct the bill. I very much ask you to listen to our suggestions, they're not constructive, they're the ones that will ensure justice. Do not interfere with the search for justice in the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u120	Thank you. I invite you to the last reporter's word. Deputy Group for the Future, National Deputy Viktor Vasilovich Bondar. Please, Victor Vasilovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u121	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am still addressing you, everyone here, first of all, to the "Serve of the People" Party. All society, all citizens expected that the elections that took place would bring about such systemic changes. Now we're being offered, you know, bits of patching, changing things in a fragmented, unsystemic way and not changing anything in fact. From such decisions as are now proposed to vote, nothing changes for ordinary citizens. Moreover, there is no possibility of accusing any action, trials to the highest authority, of the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court. It's not a complex decision, we're wasting time, we're talking for an hour and a half about a small question that basically doesn't change anything in society. We're addressing you, let's not rush around, no one's pushing, all citizens are ready to wait a week, two, three, a month, but to make a powerful decision how to really start a normal work of the Ukrainian judicial system, how to assign normal judges, how to dispel the courts, how to clean up this unnecessary bureaucracy, make sure that for years no courts have been drawn up, and quickly decisions have been made on small-scale housing issues, so that lawyers can feel like lawyers, so that the courts can order repairs to end, so that people don't sit there like a can in the villager's can, the settlers, and so that they can actually see the changes to make things process quickly happen. That's what society is counting on. So let's not make this fever go away. Why do we make decisions at each stage with separate bills? Prepare normally one bill on changing the system's branches of power, the judiciary, the trials that are taking place: civil, criminal, and so forth. And then that's really what people expect. Thank you. And now we're offering to hold on, not make these stupid simple decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are about to proceed to the vote. Is the voting room ready? Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for the first reading on the basis of draft law, registration number 1026, the title of the bill, amending some Ukrainian legislative acts on the grounds for referral to the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court and on the terms of the return of administrative matters. People's deputies please support and vote. [[17:36:09]] For 262 Decision taken. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, honourable national MPs have put to the vote the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for the second reading of the bill (registration number 1026, the title of the bill: to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the grounds for referral to the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court and on the terms of the return of administrative cases. Please support and vote. [[17:36:55]] For 237 Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we voted in the morning to include three issues that I think we will consider quite quickly. And that's why high-ranking colleagues are announcing the issue. Thank you. A review of the draft Law on Amendments to Article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on the requirements for proposals and amendments to the second reading bill (registration numbers 1039, 1039 with the badge one, 1039 with the badge two). Before I move on to this issue, I am voting in favour of a simplified procedure. Please vote and vote. [[17:38:05]] For 244 Thank you. We're going to consider the simplified procedure of the above-mentioned question. And I'd like to invite the reporter for the National Deputy of Ukraine, Paul Valeriyovich Frolová. Please, Paul Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to consider three more bills that are needed to optimize the work of the Supreme Council. This bill (1039), he proposed in view of the fact that article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules prohibits amendments and proposals to those parts of the bill that were not subject to consideration of the bill adopted in the first reading. But there are cases where several different laws regulate the same issues. For example, the Civil Code and the Codex of the Master. For example, the Law on the Rules and the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy. In this regard, there is a situation where we cannot make the same amendments to other bills, other laws, or other articles. And in the past, in fact, about a third of the bills were called, up to a third of the bills were comments by the General Legal Office on non-compliance. That's why we're proposing to lift this ban absolutely. And if the bill takes into account those proposals that were not considered in other bills, we will. Let us introduce these amendments in order to ensure the systemicity of the laws adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u124	Thank you, Paul Valeriovich. I'd like to invite a co-rapporteur of the Ukrainian national deputy, Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenk. Please, Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u125	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I wanted, first of all, to address you as a majority. We've passed an alternative bill, considering what you're doing. You began to regulate article 116. I remember, in the last summons, when we were looking at the "one window" bill on customs, we introduced an amendment where we gave aid to the construction of grains. I remember that when we considered the issue of limited liability societies, we applied for the protection of the leaders of the former governments. And there were a lot of these. Rule 116 needs to be adjusted. But how does our project differ from yours? You write that in exceptional cases it is possible, but at the same time you are able to violate this article. Our bill, which, by the way, is supported unanimously by scientific and scientific authorities, speaks of specific cases that we may be violating, in article 116, so that the content is not narrowed down so that the changes that we have not discussed with you in the first reading are not made. And I would like, colleagues, to address each and every one of you, we have come to work for Ukraine, we have come with you to regulate the Rules or vote for the Rules, for changes to the Rules, which will work after us. Believe me, if you vote for the law now, and you can vote for this law, as the GNEU says, based on and in general, we're going to take this problem down, you're going to show us, you're going to show those factions sitting behind that you're willing to vote for the bills that are most prepared today, we've tried to tell you. And it is only to your discretion today that this question is raised. Please support the Fatherland Bill, which is more perfectly regulated by article 116, and we will be able to vote with you on the basis and in general, forget that question and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u126	Thank you, Vadim Eugeneovich. I invite you to speak to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ludmila Ivanovna Marchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u127	Good afternoon, colleagues. Ludmila Marchenko, Ternopilska. Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure concerning the requirements for proposals and amendments to the draft bill, which is prepared for second reading, which is an alternative to the law which is considered urgent by the President of Ukraine and has registration number 1039. The draft law proposes to be amended to part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the provisions of which specify the list of structural units of the basic bill adopted in the first reading, to which proposals and amendments are made in preparation for the second reading. The same article, part of this article, is divided into two paragraphs, to which the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate has drawn attention in the conclusion of the basic bill (registration number 1039), and is supplemented by a provision to which the Main Committee, as an exception, may decide to take account when preparing the bill for the second reading of proposals and amendments to those structural parts of the bill that were not considered in the first reading, but are necessary to implement the changes proposed by the Basic Bill. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u128	Thank you. I invite the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u129	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The meeting's regulatory committee considered all three bills: the original one, 1039, and the alternate one, which had just been presented by MP Vadim Yvchenko, Bill 1030-2, which was presented by Ludmila Ivanovna Marchenko. And in fact, considering that the alternative project 1039-2 takes into account the almost vast majority of those observations that were made in the conclusion of the Main Scientific and Experimental Directorate on the original bill 1039, the regulatory committee at its meeting recommended to the Supreme Council the primary bill 1039 and 1039-1 do not support, and the bill 1039-2, which was introduced by the people's deputies Marchenko and Greenchuk, was adopted as a basis and as a whole. I would very much like to ask the people's deputies to consider accepting it as a basis and as a whole, because this, let's say, is not a toxic bill. When we studied those laws that were transitional, or the practice that had been inherited from the Supreme Council of the previous calling, much of the conclusions, for example, by the Committees on Rejection of Amendments (Proposals) that were given between the first and the second readings concerned that the amendments (proposals) related to those parts that were not considered in the first reading. So we very much ask the Supreme Council to adopt this bill in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u130	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. I'd like you to sign two in factions, two in fact. Juraslav Andriyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u131	I'm handing over Paul Frow.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u132	Paul Valeriovich Frolov, "Serial of the People" faction. Frolow.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u133	Good day again! I'm asking you to tell Olga Sougiri, because I was a reporter for these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u134	You can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u135	Good afternoon, dear fellows! For you and I, it is not a secret that the very second reading discusses the substance of the bill and polishes its contents. Therefore, we ask that we support and vote in favour of the deletion of an article of the Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was prohibited in the second reading of those proposals and amendments to those parts of the draft articles that were not considered in the first reading. Let's create good and effective conditions for working on drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u136	Thank you. The word is Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, the faction of European Solidarity. Victoria Petrovna Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u137	Thank you, sir, colleagues. You know, for the first time today's unadopted law was here in the Supreme Council. And I don't think it's anyone's loss. I think it's a great victory for common sense. Because old laws cannot be repealed if we have not proposed new laws. The other one. Another great victory was with you on Tuesday, when you and I decided that we could not be considered as a whole. Because the second reading makes it possible for each of us to improve this bill and eliminate disagreements. What 116 articles are. 116th article tells us that if we passed with you a law, a bill in the first reading, there are specific objects of knowledge, there is a specific substance. And we can only make amendments with you to the subject of these same articles that we adopted in the first reading. The laws, they're big, and when we put into a piece, in the second reading, if we clear 116 articles, this huge safeguards for abuse, there's going to be a desire to shove so much into that law that there's definitely no way to match the title of the bill, with the first reading of the bill. 116 An article in the Ukrainian Rules is a very important thing to ensure that legislation is logical, predictable and legal, it is one of the pillars of parliamentaryism and let it not be destroyed, it does not hinder legislation, it makes it logical and predictable, and it protects us from abuse with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u138	Thank you. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev, "The Opposition Platform for Life" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u139	Thank you. You know, before I go to the subject of this bill, I'd like to give you an example. These are specific laws such as the Labour Code, the Labour Code, and the wish of all international organizations is that they must be written in such a simple language that every citizen concerned with employment can understand the essence of this Labour Code or the Labour Code. We also tried to write the Rules in the available language so that each one of us, reading the article, would understand its contents in the same way. Imagine, then, that we have voted on these changes to 116 today. What is now included in the bill that recommends voting? That the Main Committee may decide to take into account proposals made and amendments to those structural parts of the drafts that were not the subject of the first reading. That is, the very contents of this bill provide for the possibility and the right of every national MP to submit amendments not before the bill and articles that were considered at the first reading, but to all other loving articles, and the committee is already deciding whether or not to take them into account. Imagine that we are now making changes to 116 articles of the Ukrainian Law on Rules. If this was the norm, you would now vote for the first reading, for the second reading I already have the right to amend not only 116 articles, but the first to the last. And the Main Committee will have to consider the amendments, you think you're voting. I mean, you vote on my right to amend the committee, not this article, but all articles of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, please read, please read and think. And that's the way to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u140	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u141	And we have to vote so that we don't complicate our work, you're fighting this legislative spam right now, and you're giving birth to it yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u142	Tzabal Volodymir Volodymyrovich, faction of the Voice. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u143	Dear colleagues! I'm sure that none of us have any doubt that we should be reforming Parliament, that's what our European colleagues are always telling us, that's what we see, how much we don't have effective decisions. Unfortunately, though, we cannot support this bill. We can't support it for two reasons: first, in order for us to work effectively with you, in order not to be ashamed when we have only 50 people on camera in the room, we need to systematically change the entire Rules. In no way will the exact changes help us or make our work effective. That is why we urge all members of the people to join us or our initiative to bring about a comprehensive change in the Rules to Parliament. Or let's all work together to make changes, once we change the Rules so that it works effectively. As far as this bill is concerned, let's put it bluntly, in the way it's proposed, it reinforces the most disgraceful practices that have ever been in previous convocations. When a bill is adopted and then a single amendment or several amendments are made to it. Thus, for example, we had some help from some oligarchs in the child - protection bill. Or the bill on deregulation seemed to have created quite the raiding rules. That's why we're so officially allowing the committees to manipulate our bills with you. Therefore, once again with great respect to the author of this bill, to reform parliament. Let's stop these exact changes. Let's take time: a month or two, make the only changes to the Rules, a comprehensive bill, and we'll work more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u144	Frolow. Paul Froll with motive. Frolov, turn on your motive microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u145	Dear colleagues! Lubinets, MPs for the future. I want to support a speaking colleague from Voice and really turn to all of us, we bring in practically every day. We're trying to amend the Ukrainian Rules Act. Don't we have to do something that systematic and show that this law really needed to be changed for a long time. And yet, I want to turn to the new people's deputies -- 80 percent of those present in this room. I understand that it's very difficult to read all the bills, and I have a very good proposition for you, so if you don't know how to vote, please open it up and read the proposal of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, it says, we open it, we're looking at three bills 1039, 1039-1, 1039-2 and we're reading: 1039-1. So, colleagues, I call on you when you don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u146	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u147	Open, please, if you do not read all the bills, at least read the conclusion of the GNEU and vote. Believe me, there's no bad advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u148	Sergei Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u149	I want to explain, first of all, we're the "Serve of the People" Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u150	What do you include? I asked Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich from the rostrum for motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u151	Dear colleagues, we are now considering the most important rule of the Rules -- either Parliament's work will be blocked, or Parliament will actually start working. What is 116 articles? This is an article that has always stopped all the worst lobbying decisions that have been passed into bills through other bills that had no bearing on them. We've had practice where, think about it, in the theater bill, we've put the laws on customs legislation or tax legislation in place, and we've always stopped it because of 116 articles. Don't do that, because we're actually in a situation where even that amended bill under number one will allow us to abuse that right. So our proposal is one thing: this is a bill that will bring parliament into very dangerous things. You will not see the standard that is changed or read because it will appear in another article and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u152	Let me finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u153	And you won't even be able to fix it. Yes, there is such a practice, for example, even in the Council of Europe. But this practice is stopped by only ten.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u154	Come on, let's make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u155	Ten deputies who reject such an amendment or can then apply for a third reading. Well, I can't be one to regulate standards that weren't even considered in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u156	Paul Froll, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u157	Dear colleagues, you don't have to manipulate. Well, what are we talking about? This is about you all being able to amend any bill and the committee can count on everything. It's just that when it comes to an idea that doesn't apply to this bill, we can't count it. Well, I'll quote you on what we're talking about. [[Noise Nodes]] It's left over, there's a ban on texting. amendments to those texts that were not considered in the first reading. However, an exception can be made if such suggestions and amendments are made as a result of the need for corrections, clarifications, deletions of errors or contradictions in the text. But we have legal standards, both in one law and another. We bring in one, we can't bring in the other. Or we can and will observe the Chief Legal Authority. We're against lobbyism, we're behind the systematic reprocessing of the Rules involving all factions, all groups and all MPs, but that's the law for it to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u158	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u159	It's a bill to make sure there's no formal comment. The committees are both working and working. It is still possible to make the same ideas if they are prescribed in two other laws or in various articles. Well, fix it, just fix it, make it our system. Our legislative field. Well, you don't have to manipulate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u160	Dear colleagues, we are voting on this bill today in the first reading. It will be possible to work on committees if necessary. So since the discussion is over, let's go to the vote. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading, on the first reading, on the basis of the draft Act (registration number 1039/2) amending article 116 of the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Not in turn, but in support of the committee. 1039-2 amending article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with regard to the requirements for proposals and amendments to the draft bill, which is being prepared for second reading. Please support and vote. [[18:00:51]] For 240 Against 55, holding on to 30. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. "People's Servant" – 237, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 0, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 3. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. Draft Act amending the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the introduction of electronic documentation related to the legislative process (Registration No. 1044, 1044-1). I'd like to take a brief look at this. Please be supportive. [[18:01:52]] For the 250. Against - 2, holding - 61. Decision taken. The report is given by Florov Paul Valeriyovich, a national deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u161	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, every day you get pounds, and within weeks, you get tons of paper. The essence of the bill is very easy to translate the legislative process into electronic form. [[Applause]] There are more than 4 million dollars of paper in the Supreme Council's fundraiser, but with our productivity we can get out, if we don't accept this bill, we can go outside, we'll have to increase the article. So I propose to adopt this bill and preserve our forests, save our ecology, and make the legislative process more convenient for us. We'd already been thinking and testing all these systems. You can create, determine who to sign, or send all the MPs, or send the MPs in turn. It will be convenient to sign the amendments and to register the bills. And we'll be comfortable with the boards working here without paper. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u162	Thank you. The word is given for the report on the alternative bill 1044-1 to the Ukrainian national MP Marchenko Ludmila Ivanovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u163	The President-in-Office, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, the draft alternative law (registration number 1044-1) suggests that the draft of another act, along with the accompanying documents, is presented in the form of electronic documents on which a qualified electronic signature is required, article 91. Proposals and revisions, draft conclusions are also presented in the form of electronic documents on which a qualified electronic signature has been made, article 92. Every bill included in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the Main Committee are maintained electronically, part one of article 97. In addition, all bills, even those under special procedures, are sent to the Ukrainian national deputy by e - mail to the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s mail server, article 98. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u164	Thank you. Please register by faction: two in favour, two in opposition. The Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u165	Please tell Ironman Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u166	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u167	Dear colleagues, well, we've just seen a vote before, when virtually the entire room didn't vote for change, except for one faction. This is probably an indication that changes would be desirable to discuss with the entire hall, not just for a certain part, although it does not make up the majority. [[Applause]] Now, about this bill. Once again, we strongly support the desire to reform parliament, it is ineffective. This piece of paper is what we're all dealing with. I'm sure those who think a little bit about ecology, well, we're all ashamed that we, the country's main law-making body, have these, let's say, prehistoric solutions to distribute these things. And this bill, it partially solves this problem. But once again, in order to change the rules, in order for us to work with you all effectively, we urge all of you, let's go together, all the factions will find a representative, we will work out the only document that will change the work of Parliament. And we're going to work so that we can work as effectively as possible, well, and probably in the context of this bill, and more environmentally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u168	Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich is from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u169	Both bills were discussed by the regulatory committee at its meeting. And considering what the alternative project 1044-1 also takes into account and the Committee's comments on digital transformation, and most of the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, the Regulatory Committee recommended that the Supreme Council accept as a basis and, as a whole, the Law 1044 is an alternative introduced by the Greenchuck and Marchenko deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u170	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u171	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please give it to Oleg the Synth.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u172	Oleg Sinyutka, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u173	Dear colleagues! As a member of the regulatory committee, I would like to draw your attention to the strange order that has been happening to us over the past week. The questions of the Rules, which were put into the agenda and were intended to be considered in the following week, are, in a delicate manner, mostly at the end of the day, when the attention of the National Deputies is no longer focused, placed in the session room. In fact, it is one of the most important decisions today. And I think all the fellow MPs here today have come together to think that these norms need to be supported together and coming out of the better organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I want to say that "European solidarity" totally supports the introduction of electronic services. Life has shown that those who have implemented electronic services have become successful, and the dynamics of their development are moving much, much faster. But, dear fellows, I'm actually very surprised that from a good slogan, from a good intention of "the state in the smartphone," we're getting more and more, and the states, dear friends, after our decisions, are getting smaller and smaller. I'd like to draw your attention to this haste and the unprofessionalness that is sometimes brought into this session hall. I know for a fact that we are all guided by good intentions here. I am convinced that we want to support the best drafts. But when we talk about this bill, we're actually risking, first of all, voting for a bill that doesn't have software, and that's what we talked about on the regulatory committee. Secondly, 100 percent of the materials have to be distributed electronically. But we can disrupt the paperwork that will determine the fate of the state. So if we're talking about electronic circulation, that's definitely true. If we're talking about haste.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u174	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u175	When it comes to haste, incompetence, incompetence, and, in general, discrediting good ideas, it is certainly not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u176	The word is given to Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich, MP for the Future. After him, Duggan. Long and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u177	Dear colleagues, in which we emphasize that we are ready to join the working group for a good, good bill -- amendments to the Supreme Council Rules Act. So we're all adequate here, we all have, almost all of us, we have higher education, so just think about what you're voting for right now. Part one of the first article 97 you propose to submit papers electronically, and part three suggests adding printed originals to the electronic work somehow. So you're going to define it either electronically or in this same article you're going to offer a piece of paper. You realize that you're passing a bill that's actually small, but it's in conflict with itself. That's the first one. And the second. We're congratulating that you want to translate everything into electronic form. We welcome that, too. When it comes to us, let's say yes, we're modeling the situation, we're talking to the law enforcement agencies, and a lot of them are calling on the Supreme Council apparatus. What does the apparatus have to say: we have changes to legislation, we have changes in electronic form, we'll send you an e-mail? So you know, you want to take away the concept of a specific bill. That's the first one. The other one. I'll tell you a secret, but the last call is to the regulatory committee, where I worked for five years in the secretary's office, we've repeatedly raised the question of handing out all the people's deputies or having them bring in their boards to get rid of those tons of paper. And we've come to the point that without changing the product itself, the electronic product, we can't do that. So, my friends, don't do anything stupid or vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u178	Olesi Long, minute, motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u179	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, I just want to say one thing to you right now. In the past, there has been much discussion of electronic documentation, but for some reason no one has started it. And when we realized that he wouldn't be released, we decided, you know, you want to do the right thing -- do it yourself. Every deputy, one person, gets at least what I hold in my hand. Not enough that you can't really find out what it's about, and all the women who walk around and distribute these documents, I just feel sorry for them. It's not enough that we're doing savagery in today's world, where the issue of woodworking and ecologicality in general is question number one. We did and I represented a faction that had 20 people, I'm deliberately telling you, we've developed the IT product that was in this tablet. We have 20 people who went to work with this tablet for five years. The secretariat had access to it. We had online analytics on everyone without excluding the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u180	Let me finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u181	Through each bill, they were able to see the conclusions of all the services. And I have a request to you, Mr. Head, and to the honorable presidency. I'm happy to have this ready work done, a platform that's been working successfully for five years.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u182	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u183	I'm happy to do this work, this platform that worked for five years, I'll give it to you. And I'd be happy if you could use it and run this electronic paperwork faster. Really. We've been working on it for a year and a half, it's ready, we'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u184	Thank you. The motive is Alexander Marikowski, a minute. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u185	Dear colleagues! You and I are working very hard on the legislative process, but we're forgetting about ecology. We understand, so that every day when we're served with such a piece of paper, we realize that we're comfortable with maybe taking it. And then you sort it out for 40 minutes, and it's now, in modern conditions, completely ineffective. While each MP, each deputy in six months of his work, has 10 trees cut off to ensure that his activity is simply by means of a piece of paper that he does not read. So please support Bill 1044-1 on the basis of further, if your comments are taken into account on the committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u186	Puzichuk Andri Viktorovich with a motive, the Fatherland faction, one minute. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u187	Dear head, dear fellows! We see another bill that's going to have a lot of support in the room. The Fatherland faction unanimously supports the introduction of electronic documentation in the legislative process. But the legislative process should be systematic, encompass all stages of the legislative process and contain clearly regulated rules. We propose to support this bill on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u188	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (registration number 1044-1) amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the introduction of electronic documents related to the legislative process. A few years ago, respected colleagues, according to the apparatus, distributed computers to everyone, and then disappeared. So let's still do it in a way that we're going to make history, and we're finally going to be a parliament that's going to work in line with the challenges that we face and we're going to be in a mode of dijitalization. So please support and vote. [[18:16:51]] For 270. Against - 1, holding - 47. In accordance with part two of article 16 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten half of the deadlines for the second reading of the bill (registration number 1044-1) amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules for the introduction of electronic documents related to the legislative process. Please support and vote. [[18:17:31]] For 268. Against - 2, holding - 49. Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the last question of order of the day. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the loss of the right of Ukrainian national deputies to financial security in case of a pass without valid reasons for plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or meetings of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration numbers 1035) and two alternative (1035-1, 1035-2). I'd like to take a brief look at this. Please support and vote. [[18:18:18]] For 258. Against - 2, holding - 50. Decision taken. The report is given by Florov Paul Valeriyovich, a national deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u189	Dear colleagues! In fact, this bill would have been considered by the Supreme Council, if not the first one, the second after the removal of the inviolability. What is it about? It refers to the fact that national deputies work as hard and as regularly as all Ukrainians work. The bill stipulates that if more than a third of the plenary meetings are missed within a calendar month and/or more than half of the committee meetings he loses his right to financial security, he will not receive the money for this calendar month. Besides, there used to be practice like this when there was a plenary room, but there were actually 20-30 deputies. Thus, 226 deputies are needed to begin the plenary session. The MPs, our colleagues, and our former colleagues came in, inserted cards, and began to work. This bill also foresees that registration will take place, not by inserting cards, but by pressing the button for. And counting wages is also going to be the way to count by pressing the button. And we're going to stop these schedules in the towers when before the plenary session we have to go and sign up for our presence, some forget, including me, to go sign up. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u190	Thank you. The report is given to Ukrainian national deputy Shkrum Aloni Ivanovni of the alternative bill 1035-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u191	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor! In fact, it's a truly unexpected joy for me to report this bill, because I'm going to tell you the truth, it was registered on November 1, 2016. What I'm about to report was registered with me, my colleagues from the Fatherland faction and my colleagues from various factions, then the merger of the Interfractional Eurooptimist, we registered on November 1, 2016. The idea was very easy again to take away a member of the payroll for systematic walks in the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council meetings. Then, in 2016, the Regulatory Committee had not considered this issue for a very long time, and when it considered it, it recommended that it be rejected and we did not reach it. Now we're going back to him, and his time is up, so I'm actually really happy. We did it in the same way as the State Service Act, when a government official or any Ukrainian citizen walks the job for the first time, he gets a reprimand, if he walks the second time, he can be released. So we suggest that if a national MP walks more than twice during a session in a month, he is deprived of his salary. And the salary, we had this idea of how beautiful and right it was for me, is being transferred to the Special Fund for talented children's scholarships in schools in Ukraine under the special program of the Ministry of Education. And I'd like to look at this idea and put it into practice, because otherwise the money saved will just go back to the government budget and actually disappear there. I think it would be right and beautiful to pass it on to Ukrainian children. But, colleagues, I also want to point out that this bill has to be only if the MP actually works in the session room. You know, working in a session room doesn't mean just sitting on these awkward chairs and pushing a button. Yes, it means, to amend, to act on bills, to have a political position, to submit bills. Therefore, we would suggest that we support this idea only in the complex, without depriving the MPs of the right to legislate, without depriving the MPs of the right to speak as amended, and without making any changes to the Rules that you are currently proposing. And this bill will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u192	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Marchenko Ludmila Ivanovna, is invited to report on Bill 1035-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u193	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The provisions of the alternative bill 1035-2 propose amendments to article 33 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 26 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, when the bill is terminated by the Ukrainian People's Deputy, which for no reason participates in more than one third of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and more than half of the committee that it is part of, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be suspended from paying for expenses associated with the execution of parliamentary powers. It is envisaged that decisions on the cessation of such reparations will be made by the committee under the jurisdiction of which the question of parliamentary ethics belongs on the basis of the registration data by means of an electronic system for the calculation of votes by cards and information on the calculation of working hours of Ukrainian National Deputies provided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The proposed amendments to the Rules provide that the registration of the Ukrainian National Deputy at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will only be made by means of an electronic system by pressing the pros button, and that the payment of salaries during the plenary session will be made on the basis of electronic registration data. The draft law takes into account individual observations that were noted in the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office for the Basic Law (registration No. 1035). It is proposed to adopt draft Law 1035-2 as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u194	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two against the factions. Pavliš Pavel Vasilovich, faction of "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u195	Please pass the word to Frolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u196	The word is given by Florov Paul Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u197	I'm asking you to support Bill Prime 2, and point out once again that we have to work. In order for us to work here effectively, we have to assume responsibility for that if we don't work. So far, financial sanctions are being proposed. And I would like to remind you that we have sent a bill to the Constitutional Court for a conclusion that provides for such a loss of mandate at all. But there will be, in that bill, one third of the plenary sessions and one third of the committee meetings during the next session. Thank you for your attention. And please support the bill prime 2.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u198	Thank you. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u199	I give the word to Jaroslav Iron. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u200	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u201	Dear colleagues, tomorrow will be Friday, and there was usually such a tradition in the last convocation, doing so in a semiarid hall. If we don't change the complex Rules with you, I won't be talking long about what's necessary, but unfortunately, it might continue. And this bill partly solves this question, at least it would be very logical to think that we're not in the room just to listen to requests and to work for the good of the country, we're improving legislation. But there are also shortcomings in this bill. First of all, we need to write very clearly what are the "important reasons." Unfortunately, if you open legislation now, you'll realize that for a certain degree of creativity, for an important reason, any delay can be made and so on. Secondly, if we're talking about committee walks, we need to be very clear, but rather, as the Voice party suggested, not to make it a calendar place where there can be as many committees as one, and you'll just be, without falling for it, losing your salary, but at least one session, and already as a sanction for the next session. I'm sure that we can work with you on the second reading, so the request to support one of the bills, we prefer alternatives that are very much worked out, but, again, so that we can work on these changes as quickly as possible to make it work, and not we get from the deputies now not just the selfies from the empty hall, but also why they didn't come to the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u202	Thank you. The word is Zinkevich Jani Vadimovni, the faction of "European Solidarity". Victoria Petrovni Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u203	Colleagues, I'm reading the law, and I understand that the green button still bothers us, because it becomes the key to determining whether there is an MP at work or not. I've been very supportive of dijitalization, and I've been using this thing for a long time. But if we're already in the middle of this dijitalization, let's finally do this "Council-4" system, so there's a "registration" button. Because the pro button is the pro button, right? I mean, it's not a login button, it's a law approval button. But of course it's all nonsense. As far as pay is concerned. Well, like the person who, there, visited 89 percent over the last five years, I can tell you that, well, those who have important expenses, they go to work and they take off that money anyway. Do you want to standardize it? Basically, it's a normal offer. But, look, when we talk about halfway through the committees, I'm going to have a huge request for you. The deputy comes to the committee actually to work, not just to raise his hand, and there to push what he's been put down. Let's work on the committees and discuss professionally, and the key is to read the bills, because that's the essence of the MP's work. It's not about pushing buttons, colleagues. Not even to sit in an uncomfortable room, but to write laws, to have visions, to discuss them, to make them live on committees, to work hard and to do everything better. And I can't help it. After all, I'm going to talk about the legislative technique of this little law. As an example, you write in the first part of the information about the calculation of the presence and the second part of the registration. Yeah, well, what's a attendance count, and what's different than a registration? In one law you could write, in principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u204	Thank you. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u205	Request to pass on the word of Natalia Prijedzko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u206	Natalia Prijedzko, faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u207	Honorable colleagues in Ukraine are confident that there is no national MP in this room who would doubt the need to make changes to the Rules. I was first elected as Ukrainian National Deputy, but for me, you know, the Rules are like some basic law of Parliament, our Parliament. And so we can't be so chaotic, unsystematic about making changes. The opposition platform for life stands for discipline, so we're going to support 1035-2 on a basis. But what I want to tell you is that this law can be called a little bit different. It's not about whether there's no MP or there's no MP, it's about the late bill. Because if the MP came in at 10:00, pressed the pros button and came out, he was thought to be present at the meeting, but he didn't work there any. Not for an hour. And if the MP came in at 10:03 and couldn't press the pros button at 10:00, but worked all day, he's considered missing. That's why I think he, this bill needs extremely thorough changes, and the MP's "The Opposition Platform for Life" is offering to take the basis and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u208	Thank you. [[Applause]] It's from Calchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u209	Only according to information concerning the fact that the committee, the regulatory committee at the meeting had considered all three bills, and considering that it was in alternative (1035 pieces 2) that included those recommendations that had been made in the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the Committee had recommended that the Supreme Council should adopt an alternative draft in the first reading and in the whole (1035 pieces 2). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u210	It's not a fraction, it's a two. 1035-2. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u211	Dear colleagues, I'm going to show you how imperfect this bill is. Just so you know, we have a 10-hour check-in. Your cards are legally valid. You've been working in the courtroom all day. And if you're late for what my colleague said, you couldn't put that card in, but you came in 10 minutes, and you've been pushing the buttons all day, and you're voting, but you're gone. So that's the first one. The other one. You want to limit the funds that are being allocated to the National MP. Where's the logic? The MP's not coming, limit his salary. These are different things. And the money that's going to be allocated to parliamentary activity is the money that you can give people, for example, in the district to help someone. That's why the MP doesn't come, so limit your salary. That's the logic. And I also understand that you're not reading this bill again. The conclusion of the GNEU is that all three bills should be sent for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u212	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, "The Fatherland" faction, with motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u213	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, I always say what I say. It's a good bill and a good one. And we need to take it. There are technical issues that colleagues are talking about, we need to work on the committee. So that we don't have any abuse, let's say, with the registration of the national MPs. But, at the same time, colleagues, more than a million people voted for us as the Fatherland Party. They gave us the right to take the legislative initiative. They gave us the right to apply. They gave us the opportunity to point out where corruption is, where the corruption is, where the very lobbying laws are. Colleagues, we're asking you to reconsider. Well, today it's impossible for the Council's procedural decision, which you voted for in the first reading, to give the people's deputies the opposition to defend their position, their rights, and, above all, the position of the people they've given up. for which a million votes were cast. For other parties, too. So let's take a systematic approach. And in order for us to work effectively in this Parliament, we will give everyone the opportunity to speak, speak and defend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u214	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u215	and protect those laws and regulations that we consider necessary, especially those that recommend that we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m1.u216	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's go to the vote. Everyone, please take your seats. This law could have been called the People's Deputies, let's go to work. So let us make sure that we begin to keep the promise that our electorate has made. That the National MP would still be working in both the Hall and the Committee. And if there's any further work, I'm sure at committee meetings all this can be done. I am voting on the proposal to adopt draft Law 1035-2 on the basis of the first reading on the amendment of certain Ukrainian laws on the loss of the right of Ukrainian national deputies to financial security in case of a pass without valid reasons for the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or the meetings of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support and vote. [[6:36:30.]] For 288 Against - 1, holding - 27. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" - 239, "The Opposition Platform - Life" - 8, "European Solidarity" - 0, "Fatherhood" - 11, "For the Future" - 4, "Voice - 17, "non-fractional" - 9. Honourable National Deputies propose, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, to vote in favour of the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for the second reading of the bill (registration number 1035-2). Please support and vote. [[18:37:18]] For 245 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you. We've been working on all the issues of the agenda. Therefore, the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you. Please pick up the cards. Tomorrow we start working at 10 a.m.
