ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I suggest you take your seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine and guests of the Supreme Council! As a result of elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 21, 2019, the Central Election Commission registered 423 Ukrainian national deputies. They took an oath, took office, and registered for the first meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call of 422 national deputies. Thus, the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call is complete and can begin to exercise its constitutional powers. People's deputies are requested to prepare for the registration of cards in the Supreme Council Hall. Please register. [[13:17:21]] 405 Ukrainian national deputies registered. In accordance with article 82 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 15 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules invite Ukraine’s oldest national deputy, Yulia Jakovič, to go up to the rostrum and open the first plenary session of the First Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u2	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs! Before opening the first meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, I would like to wish the newly elected deputies of Ukraine, from today on, to reject all political differences and ambitions, to unite to stop the bloodbath in Donbassa, to return the territories and people to Ukraine, to begin the restoration of the economy of our country. I wish to join the newly elected parliament in the history of our independent state with the greatest achievement -- the return of peace to Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, the first session of the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare open.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u3	Thank you, Julius Yakovich. Everyone, please sit down. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 90 of the Constitution of Ukraine, on the day of the opening of the first meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth vocation of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call, cease its duties. Let's thank our colleagues. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, according to article 15 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are to hold meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the opening of the Temporary Presidium of the First Session. In accordance with article 18 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the Temporary Presidium of the First Session consists of six national deputies. It includes the head of the Preparatory Group and one representative from each political party, among whose electoral lists there are parliamentary mandates. The political parties identified their representatives for the Temporary Presidium of the session, as reported by the Preparatory MP Group. On the basis of these suggestions, the Preparatory Group introduces a draft Decision on the composition of the Temporary Presidium of the first session given to you, namely the composition of the Temporary Presidium: Zdumkov Dmitry Alexanderovich, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, Josef Yuliy Jakovic, Kožemykin Andrija Anatoliyovich, Zabrodsky Mikhalo Vitaliyovich, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. The Preparatory Group has a national deputy from Ukraine, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u4	Honorable national MPs, honourable voters, are being brought to your attention by the draft Law on the Temporary Presidium, which was prepared by the Preparatory Group of National Deputies and approved at the meeting of this Preparatory Group. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u5	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. If there is no objection, I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 1001) on the Temporary Presidency of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote and support. Who's in? [[13:23:49]] For 390 Thank you. Decision taken. For – 390 national deputies, against – 0, held – 0. Decision taken. I invite members of the Temporary Presidium to take up their jobs and take up their duties. Colleagues, I'd like to move on to our work. Please register your cards. Yeah. Card, please, yes. According to part five of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we need to decide to continue the plenary session after 18 hours. I propose to continue the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine pending the conclusion of the consideration of the issues set out in article 16 of the Rules, the agenda, the staffing issues and other legislative initiatives. I'd like the people's deputies to vote for this proposal. Please be supportive. [[13:25:43]] For 359 For -359, versus -13, held - 1. Thank you, Your Honor. Decision taken. We need to adopt the Order on the Order of the Day of the First Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call to Organizing Issues. For the proposal of the Preparatory Group, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, a national delegate of Ukraine, is given the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, according to the decision of the Preparatory MP, the draft Order on the Order of Today's sitting, which we ask to approve, is being submitted to your consideration. This agenda was previously approved by the Preparatory MP. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Questions to the apparatus. Has the order of the day been given to the people’s deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u7	Nestor Ivanovich, after we voted on the proposed agenda at the Preparatory MP yesterday, there was no change. Let's move on. I think they're about to give it away. Let's put it to a vote. Please vote and vote. [[13:27:20]] For 306 Thank you. Decision taken. 306 – in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, We made a decision. The order of the day, the apparatus indicates that the order of the day is given. Can you look in the hall to see who has it, who doesn't have it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Nestor Ivanovich! Nestor Ivanovich, there will be an order of the day. I hope you remember that you voted for him yesterday. I'm sure you can give this information to your colleagues if you don't mind. Thank you. I would like to point out that we have adopted draft decision 1004 on the order of the day of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth occasion of the organizational consideration of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. According to article 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine authorizes the newly elected Supreme Council. An application for the appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is made by the Prime Minister of Ukraine and is announced at the first plenary meeting of the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine (article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers). The statement is given by Vladimir Borisovich Groisman, Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable Predestination! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear Ukrainians! In accordance with the Constitution, I, as Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Government, am in charge of the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, I am making this rostrum an application for these credentials. But I would also like to talk about three extremely difficult years of work together. The work that was meant to be done in every Ukrainian community, in every family, in the end, to make people feel that change is happening. But I also understand that there are many things that I have not been able to do. In fact, everything we've done, we've done with every Ukrainian citizen. All our victories are joint acquisitions. All that didn't work is the tasks facing the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine. And today I want to thank every Ukrainian, colleagues of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for their cooperation. And I want to wish the new Supreme Council a constant sense of responsibility, because today there is a majority in this room that is capable of making new, rapid and necessary changes. We have only one task ahead of us. Wherever we are, we all want to be citizens of a successful democratically developed country. It's in your hands today, too. So today I want to wish every one of you, distinguished national MPs, success. I want to wish you success in the new Cabinet of Ministers so that you can do everything you can to open your eyes to people, and Ukraine has been successful. Thank you. I wish you luck! And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u9	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. Dear National Deputies! I would like to point out to you that according to article 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which has given authority to the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine, continues to exercise its authority before the work of the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine begins. Thanks again, colleagues. [[Applause]] Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 16 and in accordance with the requirements of article 11 of the Rules, at the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we need to form a parliamentary faction. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules, the Supreme Council's apparatus worked out the materials submitted by political parties and national deputies regarding the formation of parliamentary factions and groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for their compliance with the Rules and provided information on the registration of parliamentary factions and groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The relevant information materials are provided to you. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules, allow me to inform you about the registration of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Excuse me, one minute. Camera, you. Dear colleagues, since the apparatus was working on this issue yesterday, we have some technical problems with this, and the circulation is working. If you don't mind, we can either wait, or have representatives of every political force represented today in Parliament declare that factions have been created. Will this be correct? Colleagues, if there's no objection, I suggest. Wait, you didn't listen, Arthur Volodymyrovich. I suggest we move on to the matter of the Counting Commission, we have it ready. Okay. Colleagues, I'm proposing until you've been given and printed out, I'm not sure you need to discuss factions, you've formed them, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u10	When, colleagues? There's an offer. There is a suggestion that I will now sound the MP factions and the leadership of the MP factions and take this for granted. The apparatus will now refine and distribute the materials to everyone. Do you support such a proposal? Under the stenogram. Your Honor, how much time do you need to print and distribute? Colleagues, colleagues, I offer to be heard at this time. I suggest. [[B in m in s a l in]] With the order of the day, you will be given a list. I hope you have no doubt that I will be telling the truth. If necessary, you can come and see later. And if this does not answer because you are being handed over, we will certainly return to that question. Now, if you'll excuse me, colleagues, let's keep it down. Thank you. Hold on, colleagues, hold on. Quiet. Thank you. I have an offer that we'd like to make. Well, let's take our colleagues more seriously. If you don't mind, we can put this to a vote. I suggest I read the order. name. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Colleagues, then we'll go along with the next procedure. I'm going to do it in oral form, but under the stenogram. This does not contradict the Rules. Okay? Okay. Then the faction of the political party "Serial of the People." The short title of the faction is "Serve of the people." The number of factions is 254 national deputies in Ukraine. The leader of the "Slut of the People" faction was the national deputy of Ukraine, Arahami David Georgiyovich. The first deputy of the faction’s head was elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. The deputy heads of the faction were elected Ukrainian national deputies: Strunevich Vadim Olegovich, Janchenko Galin Igorovna, Tkachenka Maksim Mikolaiovich, Mulika Roman Mironovich, Kravčuk Evgenija Mihailnovna, Kiesiel Yuri Grigorovich, Misengina Yuri Mihajlovich, Kultenka Artem Valeriovich, Savchenko Olgu Stanislavnovna, Solomčuk Dmitry Viktorovich, Suška Pavel Mikolaiovich, Halimon Pavel Vitaliovich, Koravchenkova Yuri Valerijovich, Schulak Olen Olekivovna, Tiskko Mikolaajovich. Political Party deputy faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Short fraction name: Political party "The Opposition Platform for Life." The number of members is 44 national deputies in Ukraine. The heads of the faction of the Political Party "The Opposition Platform for Life" were elected by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Boyka Yuri Anatoliyovich, Rabbinovich Vadim Zinovyovic. Did I say it right? Thank you, colleagues. The deputy faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian union of the Fatherland in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Short title: "The Fatherland" faction. The faction is composed of 25 Ukrainian national deputies. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Timoshenko Yuli Volodymyrovna, was elected head of the "Fatherland" faction. The deputy head of the faction was elected National Deputy of Ukraine Soboljeva Sergio Vladislavovich. The faction of the political party "European Solidarity" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. The short title of the MP's faction is the EU political party. The faction is composed of 27 Ukrainian national deputies. The heads of factions were elected national deputies of Ukraine, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrovna. [[Applause]] The faction of the "Golos" Political Party in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Short title: the faction of the Political Party Voice. The number of factions is 17 national deputies in Ukraine. The People's Deputy of Ukraine, Rahmanin Sergey Ivanovich, was elected head of the Political Party. He's an intercessor. [[Applause]] The deputy head of the faction was elected the national deputy of Ukraine, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. [[Applause]] Parliamentary Group for the Future in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Short title: "For the Future" MP group. The group is composed of 23 Ukrainian national deputies. The heads of the "For the Future" MPs of Ukraine, Bondar Viktor Vasilovich and Batenka Taras Ivanovich, were elected. [[Applause]] Your Honor, how long before we get the printing? Colleagues, since the names of factions and surnames, named after the father of factions, have now been established and recorded under the transcript, we take this information for granted. I hope that when it's sold out, you'll be able to verify that it's true. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a parliamentary faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which includes most Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has the right to coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, provided for in the Constitution. I'm calling in the registration. I declare that the registered MP's "Serial of the People" faction is 254 national MPs who have made up most of the national deputies from the majority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and according to the Constitution, Ukraine has the right to coalitions of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a 20-minute technical recess for the reconfiguration of the "Council" system according to the factional membership of the deputies. Thank you. I mean, you and I have to get together at 2:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Colleagues, please register. Return the cards. Return the cards, please, yes, the ones who took them. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, who hasn't returned the card? Colleagues, let's work. Unfortunately, we went beyond the time that he was taken to the faction registration. I understand that the issue of dijitalization, however, needs to be implemented more quickly by this Parliament in order to spend less time. And I hope we'll be back soon. But I suggest we continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, the next question is the report by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the previous call for a state of legislative work in Parliament. The report is given to the Head of the Supreme Council on the eighth call by Andria Volodymyrovich Paruba, within 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u12	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, highly esteemed guests! First of all, I would like to thank the Ukrainian Parliament for the great honour of leading the highest legislative body of the Ukrainian State. Let me summarize briefly the five years of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. A more detailed report is given to you in the travaux préparatoires. I have limited time, so I will stop at the key thesis. During the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 580 plenary meetings were held. A total of 2 thousand 734 acts, including 987 laws and codes, were adopted by the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council of Ukraine also held 35 parliamentary hearings. But these are just dry numbers. Over the course of five years of unprecedented challenges and challenges, we have worked together to protect the country from Russian aggression, to reform all spheres of social life. And accordingly, our main challenge at the eighth vocation was the issue of national security. The solution to this issue was the main priority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, and national security in the broad sense, as I understand it, and I understand that it is military security, economic security, energy security, information security and humanitarian security. Our parliament has adopted a package of laws necessary to create a modern Ukrainian army, and there has been a fundamental restructuring of its structure from post-Radians to modern, which is approaching NATO standards. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted a comprehensive Act on Ukrainian National Security. By this law, we have established new modern security standards for the state and the citizens. At the same time, the security bloc needs a new Supreme Council to continue reform, including the National Security Act, which provides for the adoption of new laws on the Ukrainian Security Service, external intelligence. For the successful development of our country, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the eighth call, has created an anti-corruption system: The Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, the National Anti-Corruption Agency. By law, we have introduced an electronic declaration for officials, which is one of the most open systems in the world, and the ProZorro State Procurement System is recognized as one of the best. By the laws we have passed, we have launched systemic reforms in the state. This is also a reform of decentralization, which I think is one of the most successful in the country. [[Applause]] This is also an educational reform. It's reform and pension and medical reform. And I am particularly proud that the Supreme Council of the Eighth Congress has conducted a decommunization, a mental ideological depopulation of our country. [[Applause]] The propaganda of antihuman Nazi and Communist regimes is prohibited. And I'm sure you all support these decisions. [[Applause]] The Strategic Achievement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Eighth Congress is considered by us to be adopted on April 25, 19th, by the Ukrainian Act "On Ensuring the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language". [[Applause]] We have been doing this for many years, and we have been able to pass this law. We have legislatively expanded Ukrainian information and cultural space. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has provided a renaissance of the renaissance of Ukrainian cinema, which we can see in our cinemas today. We have established mandatory portions of Ukrainian language in television and radio. We created the Department of Veterans. The law establishes the Day of the Ukrainian Volunteer, March 14. The Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Act on the granting to the fighters of the Ukrainian rebel army the status of participants in hostilities. And it has provided deserved benefits to all participants in the struggle for Ukraine’s independence in the 20th century, to all victims of Nazi persecution and political repression in the 20th century. Our Parliament approved President Prashenko's initiative to welcome "Glory to Ukraine's Hero of Fame" to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. [[Applause]] And that gave us the gravity of our century - long struggle for the Ukrainian state. The millennium was the creation of an independent Orthodox Church in Ukraine, the restoration of its unity with the Constantinople Patriarchate and with the entire Orthodox world. The Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Eighth Assembly, as I have, has been actively engaged in international activities. Ukraine has signed an Association Agreement with the European Union. The Ukrainian Parliament has worked on and adopted 144 laws necessary for this purpose. And over the last few years, we've passed dozens of laws to fill the Association Agreement with real meaning. I don't think we can afford our phased achievement. The world has become open to all Ukrainians, and this has been achieved through the cooperation of all branches of government. As the head of Parliament, I have been reporting for the development of regional policy, for the creation of the Balto-Black Sea "safety zone" and for the creation of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of "Ukraine-Georgia-Moldov" has become a result of this work. But I consider our highest achievement to be the anchor in the Constitution of Ukraine's strategic course towards the European Union and NATO. [[Applause]] And our cadence reached an unprecedented decision and prepared everything for the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in the spring of the 20th year to take place in Kiev for the first time. And I'm sure we'll be preparing a parliamentary assembly together. I believe that the achievements of the country’s new positive quality changes that need to be made to the new Ukrainian Parliament should be accompanied by the protection of the positive changes that have taken place during these five years. The main thing is to continue Ukraine's strategic course for full membership in civilised democratic associations: NATO and the EU. We must also clearly realize that Russian aggression against our country continues. And hybrid war is fought not only on the front but also on the inside of the country. I'm sure we have to have enough responsibility not to let anyone cross the red lines. We must continue our course towards the EU and NATO, to strengthen national security and the Ukrainian army, to carry out economic and institutional reforms, to prevent decommunization, to expand the functioning of the Ukrainian language. Our main task, both politics and society, is to protect and preserve the Ukrainian state. Because if there is no state, there will be no place for any reform. I'm a supporter of all innovative ideas, including the idea of a state in a smartphone. But in order to realize the state in the smartphone, first of all, it would have to be a state. Because a smartphone can be bought in a store or in an online store, and it's not possible to buy a state, it's created by generations in a fierce fight. This is important for all of us to remember. Finally, I would like to thank all those who worked in the eighth chamber: both the Ukrainian National Deputies, and the President of Ukraine, Peter Poshenko, and the Ukrainian Government, and the diplomatic corps, and the public figures, and activists, parliamentary journalists, the workers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus. Thank you all, my friends. And I wish to the newly elected deputies, first of all, responsibility, responsibility, success and victory. In a good way. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u13	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. I have an announcement. We were asked by the representatives of the European Solidarity Party to say, under the transcript, that the short title of the European Solidarity Party would be the faction of the Political Party "European Solidarity". Not the "ES," as it used to be. Thank you. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, do not vote on this issue. Dear national deputies, to provide organizational questions related to the vote, we need to select a Counting Commission. You have been given a corresponding decision project. For the proposal of the Preparatory Group, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, a national delegate of Ukraine, is given the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u14	Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u15	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u16	Dear National Deputies! The parliamentary preparatory group is submitting to your consideration a draft Decree 1002 on the Supreme Council’s Counting Commission on the Ninth Call. Pursuant to article 17 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Supreme Council, the Supreme Council decides to choose from the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the ninth vocation of such national deputies: from the Political Party "Sluga of the People" Grychko Roman Pavlovich, Žmerenecko Oleksy Sergiyovich, Kornyenka Aleksandra Sergiyovich, Koravchenkova Jurija Valeriyovich, Krivorkina Olen Volodymyrivno, Kultenka Artema Valeriyovich, Savchenko Olga Stanislavina, Jasko Elisvet Aleksiowna; from the Political Party "Oppositional Platform – For Life" by Paulica Yuri Oleksiowiovich, Puzananova Alexandra Gennadiovich; from the Political Party of the All-Ukrainian Union. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u17	Thank you, colleague. Can you please tell me if there is a need for discussion? If a discussion is necessary, I suggest that a procedural decision be made on a reduced procedure. 150 votes. You don't have to, do you? Then we vote. If there is no objection, I put to the vote the draft Decree (Registration No. 1002) on the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Counting Commission on the ninth call for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies please support and vote. [[14:49:06]] For 388 Thank you, the decision is made. 388, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, Thank you. We move on to the next issue of the agenda, namely, the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question of election. The Head’s election is conducted in accordance with the requirements of the Rules, chapter 15, of the Ukrainian Rules. In accordance with article 74 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask the MPs to apply for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Deputies, I'm listening to suggestions. People's Party of Politics, Arahami David, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! We want to make a candidate for the presidency of the Supreme Council of Razumkov Dmitr Alexanderovich according to the MP's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since there is a conflict of interest here, I cannot continue to engage in discussions and meetings. So for now, I'm handing over the word to Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u20	Thank you. Your Honourable colleagues, will there be other proposals for candidates for the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from other factions or parliamentary groups? Please. There's no other offer, is there? Then we have to make a decision to move on to the candidates. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to move to the panel. Please be supportive. [[14:51:21]] For three hundred Thank you. Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies, distinguished National Deputies, we move on to the discussion of candidates for the post of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because it's one, yes, I think. Excuse me? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u21	According to the Rules, materials are to be distributed. Unfortunately, we did not receive any material. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u22	Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u23	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u24	Please turn on the microphone. Now, one second, now, one second. I'll tell you what the question is, and then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u25	Mr. Chairman-in-Office, honourable colleagues, cannot begin the work of Parliament with gross violations of Ukrainian legislation and the Constitution. That is why I would like to say that article 74 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure clearly provides for a direct norm by which, prior to the discussion of candidates, materials are to be distributed, and it is strictly and clearly stated that there is to be a direct rule of the Rules in these materials. And no matter how many candidates. Please hand over the materials to the factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u26	I think it's going to be a question for the Supreme Council. I'll be right back. With your permission, one minute, why not? There's an offer that, as long as they're ready, I understand, materials, to go into the candidature, because some of the materials in the electronic declaration plan are posted on the official website of the National Anti-Corruption Agency. As far as the others are If that's the case, let's vote and support the decision to move on to the candidature. Thank you. Please put to the vote. Please be supportive. Thank you. [[14:54:57]] For 311 Thank you. Decision taken. [[Applause]] Let's move on to the candidature discussion. As we move to the list of candidates, it is proposed that the order of the discussion be set out in article 75 of the Rules: for a candidate to present a report on the programme of his activities to be given up to 20 minutes; for each candidate to be questioned. to the candidate take up to 10 minutes; to make a statement from the MPs take up to 15 minutes (meaning up to 3 minutes each faction); to give a speech from the national MPs up to 9 minutes. There is a proposal, if there is no objection to such a procedure, I ask the national MPs to support and vote. Puts the vote to the vote. Please. [[14:56:03]] For 371 Thank you. Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, the word is given to the candidate for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitry Aleksandrovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u27	Good afternoon again. Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a day for us to be part of our nation. The activity of the Supreme Council of the previous call. For many years of independence, a fall in confidence in Ukrainian parliamentaryism. Sadly, we have observed that trust has been declining and declining over the years. And almost the end of the cadence of the past Parliament, it reached a catastrophic indicator: it was 1 percent complete and only 3 percent partial trust. The virtual coalition is undeniable proof that the Council was unable to work. And that confirms the President's decision, which I think was perfectly logical, and was subsequently confirmed by the Constitutional Court. The adoption of laws with significant corruption risks, braking or delaying a series of significant reforms, blocking the rostrum and fighting between national MPs, all of which undermined confidence not only in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but also in state institutions as a whole. People felt that the national electorate, called to represent the interests of the people, represented only their own interests or the interests of other groups, who often work, not for the state, but for their own gain. The Ukrainian people decided to end this by voting in the parliamentary elections for the next year. Today we have a radically updated authority, the Supreme Council: it's 80 percent of the new faces in the Council. Today we have the youngest Supreme Council than any previous call. I hope that this will be the most energetic and sincere desire to change the Supreme Council of Ukraine's team of people. It is on the ninth call that the historic mission is to restore confidence in Ukraine’s national institutions, to launch legislative mechanisms for rapid economic growth, to clear up power from corrupt practices and camaraderie, which, unfortunately, is still a lot in our country. So we have three major shifts that have to be made by us and in this very room. And what's important is soon enough. The first step is to reform the institutions of power and, above all, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The country’s higher legislature will no longer be an oligarchic club for interests, a refuge for fugitives from responsibility, or a machine for legalizing corruption schemes or creating corruption schemes. It'll be good to see you. [[Applause]] The Council will finally be a place where the will of the Ukrainian people will be translated into the language of legislation and transformed into incentives for the development of our nation with you. It will be an effective legislative body that works just as hard as any ordinary Ukrainian in every city and village of our state. [[Applause]] That is why we must fulfill the promises of virtually all political parties and deputies who went to the elections and promised to lift the so-called parliamentary immunity that for decades has been the basis for corruption schemes. That is why we must, at the legislative level, put an end to the shameful practice of buttoning and impose responsibility for the absence of plenary meetings and committee work. That is why we need to create an effective mechanism for recalling a national MP if he has lost the voter's confidence regardless of whether he has passed from a political power or is self-sufficient, regardless of whether he is a representative of the majority or opposition political power. Finally, you must be accountable to the people who chose you. [[Applause]] That is why we must build a new partnership between power and opposition, move from voting for sublime agreements to voting for the common interests of our state. The first test will be the vote for this parliamentary inviolability. I'll remind you, that's what everyone's been talking about for years. Finally, we have to finish this pear and take it off of us, not for the next, but for us the same MP's integrity. [[Applause]] Changes have come to our attention both in the interests of government and local self - government. Our task is to adopt a civilized European impeachment procedure, make parliamentary investigators commissions an effective tool to combat corruption in the higher echelons of power, to recharge a large number of monitoring bodies. And there's a second direction that we're going to have to go through, too, is to clean up power from corrupt practices, excessive bureaucracy and regulation. We need to create legislative conditions to effectively combat corruption schemes of swift and irreversible punishment of corrupters and any other people who believe that the state can violate the law. We have to create legislative conditions. We must return responsibility for the illegal enrichment for the public officials, for the national MPs, for the officials. This is what society requires. This will have to be done. And I'm sure the deputies in this room will do it soon. We must encourage the discoverers of systemic corruption. We have to cancel the thousands of unnecessary regulations and prohibitions that for many years have created a system when the entrepreneur was forced to go to corruption schemes or to avoid taxes. And it created a system in which we live today that has no interest in us from both national investors and foreign partners. We need to make the court honest and independent, to create conditions for judges to be servants of justice, not to serve the interests of individual groups, deputies, or other branches of government. Finally, we need to optimize the number and functions of the public authorities, make it impossible to duplicate and cross their powers and functions in order to ensure that each of them performs only the duties and responsibilities that have been proven to him and that everyone works for the interests of our country and every citizen of Ukraine. The third direction, last but not least, is the launch of rapid economic growth mechanisms. Our goal is to increase the economy from 5 to 7 percent next year. Moreover, it should be growing not only on paper, but also on statistics, responding to what people feel every day in their lives — in stores, in markets, and in payments. Parliament's task is to provide a legislative basis for our nation's economic breakthrough, to adopt radical decisions to improve the investment climate, to protect property, to eliminate monopolies. monopolistic abuse, gray schemes, and so forth, finally legalizing capital and risking decades of forced adjustment of entrepreneurs to the conditions of a corrupt state. This is the direction of our work. We need to carry out such reforms in education, in health care, in social protection, so that people really feel these changes, not just on television or on the newspapers. You and I have a unique chance, it's given by the trust of society and by the unconditional social demand for fundamental change. That's the first chance we've had with you, many of us. For the state, I think this might be the last chance and it'll just be a crime if we don't use it with you. We will be very ashamed to look people in the eye if we do not do what we promise. So I hope that this Supreme Council will do its utmost to implement all the promises that we really wanted, wanted and implemented. Today it is not a simple day, symbolically, that the ninth call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine begins its work on the very day of Ukraine’s protectors ’ memory, who died in the struggle for independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity. This is the day of the complaint that was instituted by President Volodymyr Alexander Zelenski of Ukraine on Independence Day. And, you know, every time the Council has to push each of the national MPs, press the buttons on the remote, remember that there are many more behind its decision and many people who unfortunately are no longer among us today who have given their lives for our nation. And whoever wants to go back to corruption, let them go to the square on the 29th and look their mothers in the eye. [[Applause]] I've got everything. The report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u28	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. People's deputies would like to sign up for a question to the candidate for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Razumkov Dmitr Alexandrovich. Please. Thank you. Please, according to the list of the Fedin National MPs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u29	Thank you. I give the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u30	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Your Honor, Dmitri Alexanderovich, I have such a question for you. You were running the Preparatory Committee for the First Session and for the First Decisions of the Supreme Council, and you know that in those documents that are currently being prepared, there are decisions that the Preparatory Group has taken as chairman of the Committee on Freedom of Speech to appoint the closest friend of Victor Medvedchuk, the godfather of Putin, Nestor Schufrich. I'd like to ask you again and point out our firm position that we think this is unacceptable and ask you whether changes to this decision and the motivation for this decision will be made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u31	Arthur Volodymyrovich, you know, that the possibility of making changes to this decree, the proposals to be made by the Preparatory MP group, have been presented by the Preparatory Group of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, because the activities of the Preparatory MP group have already been completed. That is why such a decision cannot be changed. As an intern, you should remember this. As far as the position is concerned, we have invited all political forces to join the process of assigning leadership positions to various committees. That's why the "minister of the people" political party didn't interfere with the distribution of these positions among other political forces that don't belong to the majority. I think it's more correct, right and democratic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u32	Yes. 30 seconds, please, for Mr. Shufrich. Please, Nestor Ivanovich, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, I would certainly have responded right now, but I think our common response will be to create a commission of inquiry by our Supreme Council of Nine on the investigation of the crimes of the previous authorities led by the previous President.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u34	One minute, yes, I'm sorry, add another 30 seconds. Really, one minute on the line, another 30 seconds, please. Thank you, you too.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u35	As for my friend, I've been proud to be friends for 21 years. And as for freedom of speech, I could now give a number of examples, when I was in the coalition, including Yanukovich, protecting the 5 channel. And I've already said today, the right to speak to the direct channel, as well as to say 112, as well as to NewsOne, and other media actions will be a priority in the activities of our committee, as well as in the protection of all journalists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u36	Thank you, thank you. Please draw the next question, I don't see the list on me. National MP Savichuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u37	Hello. I have a question from non-fractional deputies, because I am a non-fractional MP from the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. At the first vocation, she felt that there was no such justice to all non-fractional majority MPs. There really is a lot of us. When the committees were distributed, I don't think we were asked where we wanted to go, and this mechanism wasn't completely transparent. I want to hear from you how much you see communication and effective work with non-fractional major MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u38	Thank you for asking. I am sure that the work of Parliament's leadership should be equal, and the attitude should be equal to anyone, both to the representatives of the majority and to the representatives of other political forces, as well as to the self-inflicted MPs. And I'm sure you can make sure of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u39	Thank you. Please have a word for the question given to the People's Deputy Veliczovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u40	Mikola Veliczovich, European Solidarity. Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u41	I'm sorry, we've had questions about "European Solidarity" before, haven't we?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we understand that the Presidium only examines the rules of the Rules. And, indeed, questions are now being asked, not by factions, but by the national deputies of Ukraine. And to the honourable Mr. Dmitri, I have two questions. You know, we've listened to your speech with great interest, and in context, we need to adopt appropriate impeachment laws and so forth. I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Eighth Call, to which you have devoted such great sleep, has passed this law. Will you ask President Greensky to comply immediately with the same law and to sign the Law on Temporary Commissions and impeachments? And the second question. Will you, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, abide by the Rules and turn off the microphone to anyone who violates language legislation, the Rules of the Ukraine, and speak the non - state language? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u43	Thank you, Irina Volodymyrno. As for the first question. See, you asked about the Law on impeachment, and you cited the Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry. If we're talking about, and it was the position of our political power and in the elections, and I'm sure today it remains so that it should be two different laws: it should be the Law on Temporary Commissions and the Law on Impeachment. I would like to remind you that one of President Greensky's first initiatives was the impeachment law. So there's no way that we didn't look at it in the hall, I hope we accepted it. And after that, I'm sure Vladimir Alexanderovich will sign this law. As for the second question. I think that the leadership of the Supreme Council should respond to any violation of the Rules. And I hope that, after all, we will be able to find understanding in order to move within this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u44	Thank you. Please, the next MP. He's pulling a list of deputies on my monitor very slowly. Hairline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u45	Please pass the word to Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u46	Mr. President, I would like to ask you about your attitude regarding the removal of immunity from the President of Ukraine. I emphasize that it's not about an impeachment procedure that removes the President who has immunity, that is, about removing the inviolability and making appropriate changes to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u47	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. As far as my personal position is concerned, I believe that intactness must be removed from all of them in order for everyone to be equal before the law. This position was. [[Applause]] Thank you. This position was, is, and, I'm sure, will remain. But I hope that soon we will be able to resolve this issue by removing the inviolability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u48	Thank you. People's deputy Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u49	Thank you. Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, the position of our faction is constructive, because it is absolutely logical that the party, the winner of the election, propose its candidacy for the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and our faction will vote for you and support you. What we can't say about the position of First Deputy and Deputy, because the principles of European democracy foresee that the right of opposition, and our opposition power has taken second place, to propose candidates that should be supported by you, to serve as First Deputy or Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What's happening right now in the hall, and you see, they're in a timely report of documents and stuff, says that some sabotage of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus is possible. Today we have a vacant seat as head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Are you prepared to put forward your candidacy for the post of head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the next plenary session with a view to orderly and equal treatment of all Ukrainian national deputies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u50	Thank you for asking. For the first one. I think so. Let's start with the second question. I think we're going to be dealing with this issue in factions, and with our colleagues, we're going to consult with other political forces. Because the Supreme Council's apparatus is not just the majority apparatus, it's the apparatus of all the people's deputies, and we're going to consider the possibility of such a solution. As for the fact that we really have a lot of regulatory procedures going on in a timely way right now, I hope that this is some kind of misunderstanding, and yet this is related to the fact that this is the first day of the ninth call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and our colleagues from the Apparatus in the future will be able to deal with these issues more qualitatively, and we will not be raising such awkward questions for both of you and them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u51	Let's move on, yeah, let's move on to. Okay. Thank you. It's our time. Please. The time coincides, there's an offer to move on to the next one. There's an offer to move on to the candidature. Please sign up for the performances by the MPs. Please. Yes, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Whether Dmitri Alexanderovich is in place or not? Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich, take your place.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u52	Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u53	Please, the entry has passed. It's written down by factions and groups of 3 people. Yeah, I'm doing the right thing. I'd like you to give the national deputy Veliczovich. Yes, please. Passes the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u54	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u55	Honorary Presidium, honourable colleagues, "European Solidarity" would also like to welcome everyone with the beginning of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and sincerely wish all factions together, as it was today, when most factions honored the memory of the dead in the Mikhail Square so that we could work together in Ukraine. I want to say that the political power of European Solidarity welcomes the winners of these elections. We're going to the opposition, and today we're saying that we're going to the opposition to the ruling party, but of course not to Ukraine. Our political power will always take a very hard stand to defend territorial integrity, the sovereignty of Ukraine, and, in particular, the walls of Parliament. As far as personnel matters are concerned. Obviously, the opposition does not vote for personnel issues. And in this case, we want to point out that this is the right of the ruling party to present its candidate for speakership. We wish Mr. Dmitri success in this important position, we wish him to be a statesman, a diplomat. And you know, government officials, they can say, "Thank you! Thank you, including the predecessors," and not, you know, "Azorov," a member of the Party of Regions, once and for all, his followers were in the way. I read your biography very carefully right now, Mr. Dmitri, when we were given it and I saw that you were a teacher in 2015-2019. We thank you for teaching there, doing business, I understand, consulting, but I don't think you've had one word left in your speech to those colleagues who have been building parliamentaryism here for many years. Maybe with mistakes, but they've done a lot to make democracy here right now. Unfortunately, democracy, colleagues, today is being violated by a new party of power and, unfortunately, Mr. Dmitri is as respectful of it as he is, because we see that the opposition today expressed by "European Solidarity" will not be given control functions as democratic practices require, particularly the Rules Committee. Similarly, a proportional principle has been violated in shaping the leadership of parliamentary committees. I'm sorry to mention the factions by name, but for 17 Deputies of the Honourable Voice, 13 executive positions, "European Solidarity" has only four positions. And the question is not in positions, it's in violation of principle. As distinguished colleagues, we sincerely wish the new, newly elected parliament good luck. We will always take a constructive position on all issues relating to and protecting territorial integrity and combating corruption, and all of them, and decentralisation, the things that the previous Parliament has started. And by the way, the changes to the Constitution started the previous Parliament on the eighth call. And all the deputies here voted in favour. I thank you very much, colleagues, for we have many populists talking, and someone is voting, and we were with you. In turn, we, as the opposition, will also claim, and our candidacy, we will apply for the position of Vice-Speaker. In all other human resources decisions, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u56	Thank you. Thank you. Dmitri Alexanderovich, there was just a call. Please give Dmitri Alexandrovich the right to a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u57	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I am confident that then you will vote not only on the eighth but also on the ninth call, for changes to the Constitution, namely the parliamentary integrity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And with regard to democratic principles, I first talked about this and said that I hope that in the future Parliament, in our ninth congress, we will be able to work productively in the interests of the state -- both the majority and the opposition political forces, for which I thank everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u58	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Please, the word from the rostrum has the national deputy Batenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u59	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Dear national MPs, Ukrainian people! As you know, we've created today, apart from the faction in Parliament, the parliamentary group "For the Future" of Ukraine's independent non-factional national deputies, which represent various regions of Ukraine and most of them have much experience in parliamentary work in this room. Equally because it is the only non-factional MP group, we invite to our ranks, to this MP group of all other wanted independent deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine who have gone through major districts as self-governing. I also want to say on behalf of our "For the Future" MP group that we are going to support Dmitry Razumkov's candidacy as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We personally know Dmitri Razumkov as a man of political tolerance, a man of his position. And we want to wish him, on behalf of our parliamentary group, that he will always be on the lookout for the national interests of Ukraine, that he will always remember that the Ukrainian Parliament is an independent parliament, that he will remember that we live in a parliamentary-presidential country, that he will never be allowed to usurp power, whatever this authority is called today, so that he will remember it, and we desire that every member of the Supreme Council, who represents the interests of the electorate, be heard in this room, and that we do not suffer from Bolshevik principles. We wish to protect you and to honor and honor the Ukrainian Parliament and never violate the traditional, what has always been in Parliament, the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Good luck! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u60	Thank you. I give you my word from the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" to the National Deputy of Volosin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u61	..factions of Boyk Yuri Anatoliyovich, please have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u62	The position of our political power, although temporary, is clear and clear. We demand that the future speaker be the speaker of the entire parliament, that he take into account the interests of all the deputies who are in the room, rather than what happened in the previous warehouse, when the speaker, when he spoke today in response to his achievements, was the speaker of only part of the Parliament and was directed only at it. Because ignoring the demands of MPs who do not belong to the majority or have their own position on the issue is ignoring not only their demands, but the people of Ukraine who chose them. This is what needs to know, understand and adhere to the new speaker of Parliament, because even a brilliant program will not be implemented if it is not supported by both the hall and the citizens of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u63	Thank you. Thank you. And there's also information that from the "Fatherland" party, the National Deputy of Sobolev. Please. Oh, I'm sorry, from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, I'd like to express my position on the faction. We've discussed this. And I'll start with a nice one. We've decided to support the Head because the Servant of the People Party has received an absolute majority. This is your right. And we will do everything we can to ensure that Parliament works. But I would like to immediately caution against a few decisions that should actually be decided in the early days of Parliament. First. Ten years ago, a section of the Rules disappeared that regulates the work and order of formation of a coalition, opposition. Without that, we have seen that even the question of the dissolution of Parliament could be a procedure that should be considered in the Constitutional Court. I wanted this issue settled in the early days of Parliament’s work. This will allow us to organize this work clearly enough. The other one. Our faction would like to see the urgent issues that are really urgent put into the agenda and at least be placed in the hall independently of factional belongings. What happened, when, for months and sometimes years, the most important issues were not even included in the agenda of a particular week, in my opinion, and led to Parliament working side-by-side and even under conditions of a virtually non-existent coalition, all decisions were approved without the political responsibility of those forces that voted or did not vote for them. And the last. The wish expressed by all, the Head of the Supreme Council, is the Head of the Supreme Council, not the head of the political power. Only in this option will Parliament be working, because not 226 votes are waiting for us, but 300 votes will be waiting for us very often, and more. This is a very important moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u65	Thank you. Thank you for the performance. Time for discussion is up. The list of candidates has been closed. Since there are no other candidates and there is no rating vote, we will proceed to the voting procedure. Honourable deputies, in accordance with article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 74, 75 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, put to the vote for election as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please. [[15:31:48]] For 382 [[Applause]] He's begging for factions. Please show by factions. Thank you. Now, Mr. Head, you have received a greeting. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to take his place in the Presidium, and we finish the work of the Temporary Presidium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, thank you so much for your support. I hope that we will indeed be a parliament that will work for the interests of the state despite political ambitions, despite sometimes personal interests, and that we will enter into history as a parliament that has been able to unite the state of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Likewise, I would like to thank colleagues who worked with me and with the Preparatory MPs, and today they were in the Temporary Presidium. Thank you so much for your support and assistance. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I propose to move on to the next issue of the agenda, namely the election of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we turn to the question of the election of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 74 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask the MPs to apply for the post of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm listening to suggestions. If you don't mind, we'll start with the political party of the "Serve of the People" faction. Colleagues? Alexander Kornienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u67	Yes, we have an offer to serve as First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council from the faction of the Party "Staff of the People" Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u68	Thank you. Will there be any more suggestions? Yes, I'm listening, Arthur. Turn on the microphone. Arthur Gerasimov, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say immediately that from the political party "European Solidarity" we are introducing the candidate of the Ukrainian legend Mustafa Djemiliev as Vice-President of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u70	Thank you. Will there be any more suggestions? This is the First Deputy. Yes, Ivan Ivanovich. Krulka, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u71	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, we are now discussing a specific issue -- the appointment of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. So I'm asking you to pay attention to your colleagues, so that this is the position they're putting up. There are no candidates for the First Deputy since the Fatherland faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u72	That's a very good point by a colleague from the Fatherland faction. During the work of the Preparatory Group, several candidates for the post of Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were proposed. If I am not mistaken, there was only one candidate for the position of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Yes, you are. Please state your position on the first or the second? I understand. Can you tell me first or second? To the intercessor. Okay. I got it, all right. Then we return to the Fatherland faction position. Yes, turn on the microphone, Sobolev. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u73	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, since the matter is in order of the day, both under the First Deputy and under the Deputy Head, we make a proposal for the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council to be our colleague in the Olenna Kondratuk faction. We think she'll be able to organize the direction of the work that will be entrusted to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u74	Thank you. Yeah. Turn on the microphone, please. Dear colleagues, I ask you to read Arthur Gerasimov's address. "When the vote on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Dmitry Alexanderovich to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, my card did not work, please count my voice "against." Sadly, this is not in line with the Rules, but I am obliged to read this position. My colleagues, you'd probably still be voting. And I'm here, I could. Thank you. The system didn't work, I get it. I'm asking the camera to see if the system's working. That's the same thing. "I, Chigos Ahtem, voted against the Supreme Council in the election vote, and the "Council" system recorded, as I did not vote. Please consider my voice "against." Thank you. Colleagues, Igor Gus, turn on the microphone. Igor Gus, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u75	Thank you. Dear friends, from the "For the Future" Group, from a number of non-fractional deputies, we would like to place our colleague Irina Miroslavna Konstanovic, the deputy of two vocations, the professor, the doctor of philosophical, philosophical people, the person who could be properly represented, especially those who are in the room about 50, are non-fractional MPs. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u76	Thanks for the offer. Papiev, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I give the word to Vadim Zinovich Rabinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u78	From our faction, we're proposing National Deputy Nestor Shufrech to serve as Vice-Speaker of Parliament, from opposition. And I would like to remind you, he's the sixth party to come with us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u79	Thank you, Vadim Zinovovich, especially for making the proposal within the Rules, thank you very much. Are there any other job offers? If there's no objection, I suggest. There was already an offer from your faction. Please turn on Papiev's microphone for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u80	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite all of us to refer to article 79 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which provides for the possibility of selecting the individuality of the First Deputy and Deputy, as well as foresight and election together, and even a vote for two at the same time. So I have a proposal for the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, let's let the Supreme Council determine whether we're going to discuss individualities and vote individual. Or, as the Rules provide, we will discuss and vote together. It's a procedural question, I need you to discuss before we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to discuss separately the issue of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, especially considering that there is only one proposal from the faction of the Political Party "Slut of the People", by Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. And after considering the question of candidates and voting separately. Do we need to confirm this decision in some way? Then, if there's no objection, I suggest you go that way. Wait, we're talking right now. Excuse me, colleagues, you. We're talking about the First Deputy right now. Since there is one candidate, I propose that we look at it separately. We're going to vote on the vice-speaker. So, if you don't mind, I would still like to consider the matter of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A proposal has been made for such a candidate, namely the Ukrainian national deputy Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. In accordance with the Rules, honourable national MPs are invited to consider the following procedure: to present candidates with a report on their programmes of activity to each of them within 10 minutes; to ask national deputies to take up to 10 minutes; to speak from the MPs to 15 minutes, to 3 minutes each faction; to give speeches from the national MPs up to 9 minutes. Dear colleagues, if there is no objection to such a procedure, I ask the national deputies to vote and support. Vote. [[15:43:34]] For 364 Thank you, the decision is made. 364 in, 2 in, 14 in. Yes, Ruslan Alexiovich. Turn on Stefanchuku's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u82	Card inserted. With this question in mind, I would like to state that there is a conflict of interest with regard to the debate and the vote in favour of my candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u83	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the word is given to the candidate for the post of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. Please, Ruslan Alexiyovich, on the rostrum. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the great honor of being present at perhaps the most historic stage of the creation of Ukrainian statehood. It seems to me that this stage, first of all, we can relate to two main things: trust and responsibility. These are the highest things that separate a person from other brothers in the zoo. It seems to me that the deep sense of trust and the perception of it is that it's not just a human being, it's what makes a person the only monolithic nation. Dear colleagues, I am deeply grateful to the faction of the "Serve of the People" for the high trust I have to try my strength in the position of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I hope that my autobiography has been distributed to everyone, and by reading it, you can see that, perhaps before this attempt to embrace such a summit in the field of lawmaking, I've tried to go all my life as a doctor of law, a professor, a member of the National Academy of Legal Sciences. And it seems to me that the basic function of this Parliament despite the political battalions, despite the controversy, is a difficult and daily legislative work. Because only bills, because only Parliament's decisions can become a major change in society. Because that's why we're people, because we agree on rules. And it's important to me as a person who claims to be in this position to do everything we've seen before, well, it's no longer in the way that we've been shown. And I think today we can talk about the most important quality of any legislation that relates to the quality of legislation. And so my main task in this position is to ensure first and foremost a new approach to the quality and effectiveness of national legislation. And I see some ingredients here. First of all, in 28 years of independence, we have to do an inventory of national legislation, we have to give up obsolete Soviet garbage. We have to prevent the state of affairs for 2019 in the national legislation of Ukraine from being the Housing Code of the Ukrainian RSR, the preamble of which reads: "recognizing the ideas of Lenin Communism" is unacceptable. It is unacceptable that there is a whole host of other post - Soviet legislation. It seems to me that the basis for our work here should be primarily related to the systematization of national legislation. We should try to implement the principle that exists around the world: two in - one out, one out, two out. Because, unfortunately, today, the number of laws in Ukraine's legislation is inversely proportional to their quality. And I've actually talked about this before, when I talk to the faction, I'm actually convinced that maybe legislation is the only sphere where numbers never grow to quality. And vice versa, the smaller but more quality laws we're going to adopt, the better we're going to systematize the social relationships that exist in our country. In addition, I very much hope that the Ukrainian Parliament will finally see an era of systematization of legislation. We will pay attention to the need for codification, incorporation, and other ways to unite the entire array into understandable and logical things. I sincerely hope that in this Parliament, under the aegis of Europeanism, the laws translated from the countries of the Google European Union and amended by the Word will cease to be printed. This is unacceptable because we should offer to the Ukrainian people the best European traditions those approaches that should shape the pride of the Ukrainian billing. In addition, I very much believe that this room will eventually have a billing plan, because in 28 years of independence only three years -- 1996, 1998 and 2006 -- this Supreme Council was working on a plan. We need to be open to society and talk about the period in which we deal with problems. This work should be systematic, logical, and, above all, for the benefit of Ukrainian society. I really want to assure each and every one of you that we need to realize that legislation is not a pyar, it's a daily piece of work, and it's measured, not by the amount of hours spent, but by the number of quality bills that we've proposed to our country, and, above all, to the Ukrainian people. Dear friends! We have a great and victorious work ahead of us. But I'm looking at the hall today, and I remember the moment we started going to the Supreme Council Hall from Michael Square. We went through a pattern of mothers, women, and parents who lost their children for the sake of life. heroes of Ukraine. We all had tears in our eyes. I very much believe that each of us will remember this day forever. And we will walk this road with dignity. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u85	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a question for Ruslan Stefanchuk? Ruslan Alexiyovich, you must have left the rostrum a little too early. Maybe there won't be any questions. No questions to Ruslan Alexiovich? Is it? Any questions? Okay, let's sign up for the questions. Dear colleagues, questions. Hot plate, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u86	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, north of Clothing, European Solidarity. I have another question for you, Mr. Ruslan. Unfortunately, I couldn't do it. There wasn't enough time to ask Mr. Dmitri. He said in his statement that opposition bridges should be set up. Tell me, how does this relate to the fact that the "Serial of the People" faction that you represent and enter, which has 60 percent of the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is now receiving the results of the work of the Preparatory Group, where you were Mr. Dmitr's first replacement, 87 percent of the seats of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? I would like to remind you that parliamentary committees are not a government. The government forms, of course, most of them, and there are all of your representatives, that's understandable. Parliament is a place where all Ukrainian citizens are represented. Why millions of people. I respect the millions of people who voted for the "Serve of the People" party, but there are other millions who voted for other parties. Why are they not reflected as heads of parliamentary committees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u87	Thank you, thank you for asking. I'll answer, with your permission, very briefly. Because the Ukrainian Rules provide for a proportional principle, not for the heads of committees, but for the administration of committees. And the point is, as far as committee management is concerned, there are board leaders, the first deputy, the deputy, and the committee secretary. If you count all the management positions in the complex, you'll see that the percentage of the "Serial of the People" party is somewhere between 57 and 58 percent, much less than our representation in the Supreme Council. We were willing to do so in order to respect our opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u88	Belkova. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u89	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear candidate, colleague, you are now running for one of the highest positions in the legislature. But I want to ask you a question as a national policy. The reporter today said that there is very little trust in Parliament from the population, from our electorate. Please tell me, as a politician in this office, what mechanisms do you propose that the people should respect Parliament: both me and you; and the majority and the minority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u90	Thank you. Thank you. Recipe one: Parliament must learn to respect people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u91	Voloshin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u92	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, first of all, I welcome you, as well as Dmitri Alexandrovich, the intention not to divide this hall into the right and wrong deputies. There are different deputies in this room, we are just as different as our citizens, who speak different languages, who go to different churches and profess different ideologies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u93	I beg you, let's hold on. Let's follow the Rules, Oleg. He's lying down! Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u94	I can speak the language that most of our voters speak. Read the law that you adopt. Here's a question for you. Unfortunately, we have not heard from Mr. Dmitry Razumkov's speech, which, specifically, but as you represent one political power, one team, I am addressing this question to you. What exactly are you going to do to achieve peace? Actually, that promise that brought Mr. Zelensky to the president's chair, and the "Slut of the People" party to the majority in this Parliament. Are you going to vote in favour of the political part of the Minsk Accords and supporting the Supreme Council in this sense to encourage this vote? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u95	Thank you. As for the question of what we are going to do for peace, I am deeply convinced that the question should sound something different: what we are all going to do together for peace. Because the problem of peace is not a problem in part of Ukraine, it is not a problem in part of Parliament, it is a problem in all our country and it is a problem in our country. And I am deeply convinced that, for such a great purpose, we will find the opportunity to unite our efforts, to work out the best mechanisms, and to start talking, but without giving up Ukrainian interests, Ukrainian territories, Ukrainian people, we will have great success. And most importantly, this success will come from the support of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u96	The Great, the Political, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u97	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Please pass on my word, as well as to John Kirilenko’s colleague Vadim Ichchenk. Please Wadima Yvchenka for two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u98	Thank you. Yvchenka, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u99	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I want to join the greetings of each and every one of you. Today, the start of a new session, today, is the beginning of the ninth - calling parliament. And I hope that those promises we made will be systematically embodied in this room in dialogue and without breaking the Rules and respecting every word and respecting every thought. At the same time, Mr. Ruslan, I want to thank you. I think you really want to systematize what you're talking about. You're talking about systematizing legislation. You're talking about systematizing the work of the Supreme Council, including the Rules. And it may be quite possible to ease, let's say, the bureaucratic burden that is in Parliament today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u100	Give me another minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u101	Thank you. At the same time, I hope that not only the work of the Supreme Council's leadership in the systematization of legislation, but also the work of the committees directly to us as deputies will also be systematic, will be with respect to each other's thoughts, and you will really become not the leader and leader of one political power, but you will be the leader of Parliament. And here, believe me, except for half that has a majority, the other half is also voters, these are also people who trusted us with their visions and trusted us with what we wrote about in our programs. So I just want to wish you success. And I'm willing to help with systematization, including in certain areas where I'm learning. And the Fatherland faction is going to be, I think, to support this approach further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u102	Thank you. Thank you. I understand there was no question. So I just thank you for your support, and I'm also deeply configured, and I think that all of our colleagues who represent the "Serial of the People" political party are set up solely for cooperation, but the only measure of this cooperation should be the interest of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u103	Very slow. Kabachenko. Turn on the microphone, please. Bondar. Turn on the microphone, please. Oh, no? The question is off. Next. Labunsky, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u104	Thank you. Our faction has already come out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u105	Thank you. I'm suggesting maybe we finish the question to the reporter? Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich, thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u106	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, we still need 15 minutes to make a three-minute statement from the factions. Is it necessary to do so? You don't? If there is no objection, I propose to ask questions about the election of Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk as First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Discussion? It's a faction discussion, isn't it? Okay. "European Solidarity," right? Sign up for factions, please. Batenko, please to the rostrum. Colleagues, Batenko. Batenko. Then let's do the next colleague. Taras Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, the parliamentary group "For the Future" supports Mr. Ruslan Stefanchuk's candidacy for the post of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and wants him to wish that his knowledge in jurisprudence, his theory, which he knows, did not conflict deeply with the practice of legal and, above all, European practice, so that it would be felt in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's session hall when important bills were adopted, particularly with regard to the limitation of parliamentary integrity, the limitation of the President's intrusiveness, and the inviolability of the judges of Ukraine. I would like to pay the same attention, dear friends, to one of the glorifying moments that took place today in the walls and outside the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, from which the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was not very pleasant. This moment concerns our colleague of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergey Rudik, who was elected as Ukrainian national deputy in Majority District No. 198 in Cherkaščina. As you know, the Central Election Commission approved and acknowledged Sergio Rudik as Ukraine's elected national deputy. He received a certificate, a temporary certificate from the Ukrainian national deputy, with whom the Ukrainian national deputy Sergey Rudik entered this room with us, and with us he took an oath from the Ukrainian national deputy. And after that, he wanted to exchange an oath and a temporary certificate for a permanent and corresponding ballot card, in which he was rejected by the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a reference to an incomprehensible letter, "this" by the Central Electoral Commission, signed by the head of the Central Electoral Commission, not even the head of the Central Electoral Commission. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u109	Colleagues, this is not about the agenda. I'm sorry, Taras Ivanovich. Well, this is not about the election of the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As a matter of fact, fine. Give me an hour. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u110	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, the tradition in Parliament is to use the time, the three minutes given to the deputy of the Supreme Council, the more the representative of the parliamentary group. That's why we support Mr. Ruslan Stefanchuk's candidacy. But at the same time, we insist that the MPs, the non-fractionals, deal with this egregious case of non-admission and non-deployment of the National Deputy of Ukraine and the balloting card of the National MP, Sergio Rudik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u111	Thank you for supporting Ruslan Stefanchuk. And as for Ruddick, Sergey Ruddick, I'll give you the information a little bit later, and now I'll have the Apparatus report. Thank you. Krulko Ivanovich. Oh, I'm sorry. Irina Volodymyrna's character. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u112	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of the Ninth Assembly, distinguished colleagues! As a opposing democratic force, we reiterate that we will never be in opposition to Ukraine, and we will be happy and happy when our constructive position and advice are properly accepted by the ruling majority. You know, while working in our preparatory group for the 9th Council of the European Solidarity Council, we were able to win a healthy mind and respectable colleagues who claim to be the already elected speaker and first vice-speaker took the position of retaining the Committee of European Integration. Unfortunately, there was no such position as European Solidarity, as veterans, about the Veterans Committee. And we think it's a very big mistake. We join all those wishes of Parliament’s leadership, of Parliament’s presidency to remember that there is a Parliament of a political party or a political faction or power, and this is Parliament’s leadership. And of course, we will never, as an opposition political force, take disrespect for voters, millions of voters, and over 40 percent of voters have not voted for the party of power. And we see that Mr. Stefanchuk has stated in his speeches the very right words, as always, he speaks the right words, the need to comply with the Rules and the proportionality of committee leadership. "European Solidarity", the third political power of Parliament today, has only four positions in committee leadership. Friends, and we have black lists, 25 of the 27 deputies of our political power are in the black lists of the party of power where they can't be assigned. This is not about us, it's about the voters of European Solidarity. I also want to wish as ex-first vice-speaker, a more faithful first vice-speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament, I sincerely wish you, Mr. Stefanchuk, how to remember in the face of all your colleagues, because it is not always easy to know everyone in the face and give everyone a word -- both opposition and power. I want to wish you all a quick transition to the state in smartphones and start with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because today we're getting such scabs of paper that these, my friends, are carpal forests cut out, you know. Let's start with ourselves and start sending these documents to e-mail. With regard to the vote. We are voting against all the human resources positions that the authorities are giving us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u113	Thank you. Thank you, Irina Volodymyrna. One point, let's, however, make Parliament the truth. First. If we're talking about liquidation, Irina Volodymyrna, the Committee on European Integration, the language didn't even go, I don't think, and not from our political power, not from others. If we're talking about the Committee on Veterans, then all objects of knowledge are now in the articles of knowledge of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights. And we've expanded these possibilities instead of reducing them or eliminating them. So I think, with all due respect to you, it's a good idea to give your colleagues information. It's also about some black lists. I'm sure there shouldn't be any "black" or "cheese" or other lists in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u114	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u115	Thank you. Dear Mr. Razumkov, you know, if there were no "black lists," then our colleague Ariev could lead the Committee on Freedom of Speech, our colleague Honcharenko could lead, as well as be Secretary of the Committee on Budgets. And now there will be a test of whether the leader of the Crimean Tatar people will be able to represent the opposition to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u116	Thank you. I think that was a possibility, too. But it wasn't used in full, unfortunately. I offer Ivan Ivanovich Krulka, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u117	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. In 2015, when there were parliamentary hearings in this session hall on "The role of young people in government," I expressed my wish from this rostrum that there would be more young people in this room. This became a reality today, and the first meeting of the Supreme Council testified. [[Applause]] With regard to the question that we are discussing, the election of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. This is an extremely important position, since the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council not only presides when the Speaker of Parliament cannot do so. But the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council must be the person who will continually follow the rules of the Supreme Council by all the national deputies, all the subjects of the legislative initiative, including the Speaker of Parliament. So what I'd like to say is that we, as the "Fatherland" faction in our meeting, have decided to support Ruslan Stefanchuk's candidacy as the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. I know him personally as a professional lawyer. We were able to work in a preparatory group where his expertise was also evident. I believe that Ruslan Stefanchuk will be worthy of doing this work under several important points. First point. Now we have a majority, but the main thing for the majority, and for Parliament's leadership, is to remember one thing: treat minorities the way you want them to treat you when you're in a minority. That's the first point. The other one. The Supreme Council's regulations and democracy are strong when the Supreme Council's regulations are not. Well, a law that can be restored as a breath, and when the rules of the Supreme Council are adhered to inevitably by all, and above all by leadership. And especially when there's a majority. So I'm calling attention to the fact that the First Vice-Speaker will abide by the Rules. And one more thing. During the time of Januković, entire chapters were thrown out of the Rules, including a chapter that regulates minority activity in Parliament. The first thing to do, or one of the first things to do, is to return these rules to the Supreme Council Rules because they were thrown out by Janukovic. If we do not want the dark times of Yanukovic, it is necessary that the Supreme Council Rules address the issue of both coalitions and minorities. And we will support you, Mr. Ruslan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u118	Mr. Papiev, the opposition platform for life faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u119	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! Dear John Ivanovich did not throw Viktor Fedorovich away. Study the mausoleum. At the time, we had the Constitution of the Presidential Parliamentary State, and it was submitted to Parliament. By the way, I'm addressing the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine who had the report today. Today he has done his best to keep the Supreme Council in such a situation when we have the Constitution of the Parliamentary-President State, and the Rules, if you look at them, remain the Constitution of the Presidential State. Even if we are to consider today the appointment of the Prime Minister, there is still an article there – the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of the Prime Minister, i.e. it is totally not in line with the Constitution of Ukraine. Again, I am addressing the previous Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Who prevented you from adopting Bill 5522 for four years so that this Supreme Council of Ukraine could work under the normal Rules, where the rights of the coalition and the rights of the opposition would be clearly and clearly stated? And strangely today are the words of the predecessors who made up the majority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine yesterday, because you know that their authority has been confused today, because they immediately mentioned that we give the rights of opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, where were you in the 14th year, when you were absolutely insolent. [[Applause]] They said no position of opposition had been given, all the positions had been taken? You have no moral right to discuss this matter at all today. You either stick to the law, yes, and live in one way, somehow in sync with your conscience, yes, or, or, or act as you have done before. So I'm addressing everyone, and first of all, the representatives of today's "Serves of the Nation" faction, when you vote, imagine that there is no eternal coalition, no eternal majority, always remember that you can be in a minority, and that you don't look today as they look, treat everyone equally. We are all Ukrainian national deputies, all of us today have sworn allegiance to the Ukrainian people. We all want to create our nation as a European, strong nation, and to have respect for ourselves. That's why I have a proposal. Let us, however, take the first questions that this Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider, and we will adopt the Law on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that it will be balanced and accountable to the Constitution of Ukraine. The other one. If you are taking both the Head and the First Deputy, then treat the Gender with respect. Well, most of us have a traditional Supreme Council of Ukraine here today. Give office as a representative of a fine sex, and then you can say you are a European state.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u120	Thank you. If there is no objection, I propose a vote. Dear colleagues, please identify and support Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk as First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support and vote. [[16:15:55]] For 330. Decision taken. 330 in, 26 in, 40 in. Thank you, colleagues. Ruslan Alexiyovich, please take a seat in the Presidium. [[Applause]] Let us turn to the question of the election of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Four suggestions came in. The first proposal came from the faction of the political party "European Solidarity". [[B in m in s a l in]] It's all right. Secretariat, please report. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, let's go in order to arrive in the hall. No, not in principle, yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Arthur Volodymyrovich! I'd like to take four out of four. Three factions and one MP group, namely: European Solidarity, the Fatherland faction, the Future Group and the Opposition Platform for Life faction. In accordance with article 74 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I would like to ask the MPs to list the personnel again. The first is Mustafa. Colleagues, once again under the transcript, please call the candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u121	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I would like to reiterate once again that from the faction of the political party "European Solidarity" we propose to Vice-Speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament, Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the hero of Ukraine Mustafa Djemilev. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u122	Thank you. It's a faction of the Fatherland political party. Cosmiakin. Sobolen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u123	The Fatherland faction offers the position of Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, Helen Condratjuk, an MP who knows what it is to work both in opposition and in the majority. A person who has the expertise to have every opportunity to take up this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u124	Thank you. Igor Goose. Turn on the microphone. Turn on the MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u125	Parliamentary Group "For the Future", a number of non-fractional deputies are proposing to serve as Vice-President of the Supreme Council, MP Irina Miroslavovna Konstankević, professor, doctor of philological, philosophical sciences, who could represent almost fifty non-fractional deputies in Parliament's presidency. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u126	Thank you. "The Opposing Platform for Life", Vadim Zinović Rabinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u127	They didn't turn it on, oh. Once again, we offer the most experienced MP Nestor Schuffritch. And I repeat, the vice-speaker's position should be in the second party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u128	Thank you, Vadim Zinovovich. I think the hall will be determined with these proposals. I suggest you follow the alphabet, if you don't mind. The first proposal was from a political party called the European Solidarity Party, a colleague of Jamilev. But first of all, I propose the next schedule for our future work. In order to present the candidates with a report on the program of their activities, we have up to five minutes, since we have up to four candidates. On the question of national MPs to each candidate, within five minutes. On the show from the MP factions, 1 minute, respectively. And give a speech from the National Deputies for five minutes. If there is no objection, I suggest we determine how to proceed. Okay. Then he is invited to report. What? No discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I suggest we vote on the proposal without discussion and then on the results. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, let's do this. Let's do that. No, colleagues, let's do this. The candidates' speeches will take up to five minutes and will continue without discussion. Let's, if there's no objection, I suggest. [[B in m in s a l in]] Arthur Volodymyrovich, Arthur Volodymyrovich, well, we have four candidates. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I propose to vote for the proposal without discussion. If not. Many colleagues say that. [[Applause]] If there's no objection. [[General Discussion]] Colleagues, I suggest you make a decision. If most of the hall supports this offer, this is it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can see how you behave as usual. Thank you. Yes, Arthur Volodymyrovich, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, the standard of discussion laid down directly in the Rules of Rules 79, 74 is mandatory. We can't start working in Parliament because of gross violations. We propose statements from the candidates, statements from the factions once and then to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u130	Andrew Kozemyakin, 30 seconds. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u131	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, well, the point is, I'd like to remind my colleague who's just been speaking, that in the 14th year no one's ever been there, talked, everyone's voted in three minutes. All of them. This time. [[Applause]] It's different. It's different. And second of all, I'm proposing this. She doesn't deny it because the hall determines any problem only the hall solves – 226. And no regulation indicates anything to him. So, if there are four candidates, voted in rating, then one that gets the majority, he'll go out to the rostrum and tell you everything from him.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u132	I think it is. Yes, Mikhail Mikhailovich. Papiev, turn on the microphone for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look, I understand your desire to go through everything as quickly as possible, yes, but the request, well, don't take the example of the previous summons, yes, and everyone else, don't violate the Rules. There are only two possibilities for discussion. It's a complete procedure and it's a shortcut. If you want to ask the question of voting without discussion, it's the same way you want to deprive me of constitutional rights as a national deputy of Ukraine's legislative initiative and the ability to work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to express your views and your suggestions. This is the constitutional standard that the Ukrainian people gave me. You have no right to put this to a vote without discussion. I'm asking you to give the candidates the opportunity to speak, to mark their position, and perhaps their speech will be by changing the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and you will vote for Nestor Ivanovich Schuffric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u134	Okay. Discussion. What were the suggestions? There was a five-minute offer -- a report from each candidate and faction after, after all. Come on, I think that's where we're gonna stop. The European Solidarity faction is coming up, Mr. Jemiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u135	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, the distinguished national MPs, firstly, I sincerely welcome all colleagues in connection with the election of deputies to our country's senior representative body, and I look forward to working closely for the benefit of our country, regardless of which party or MP faction we belonged to. I have been in the Supreme Council for 20 years, and I have never held any office here, and I don't want to do that, although, of course, over the years, there have been some similar proposals. The removal of me yesterday by the faction of European Solidarity as Vice-Speaker of Parliament was a big surprise to me and, frankly, caused me to be confused. On the one hand, it is a great honor and, on the other hand, a great responsibility. As you know, in connection with the occupation of Crimea and the dramatic situation of our compatriots, primarily the representatives of the Crimea people under occupation, we, the Crimea deputies, have a great deal of other matters besides MPs. These are numerous trips to various countries, to various international forums and country visits, and numerous meetings with diplomats, public organizations, and forced displaced persons from occupied areas. So I have no idea how to be here in the morning before evening and then be constantly busy with the affairs involved. And there's a lot of them, as I understand it. Given that I'm not 30 to 40 years old, but twice as old, I'm very afraid that working on this job can cause some damage to my activity in a direction that is the main meaning of the rest of my life -- to see Crimea freed from insolent occupations. [[Applause]] The important factor is not that I do not speak the national language to the extent that it is necessary for the person in charge. It seemed to me that life had not been so long, and this time was better spent on some things than on a deeper study of language. But it turned out I was wrong. And the Most High has given me more years to live than I have anticipated. But the main motive that moved me not to give up this offer was that my arrival in this office might be to some extent conducive to the fact that the topic of the depopulation of Crimea and the restoration of the territorial integrity of our state would always be a proper place in the activities of the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] In short, I thank everyone who has nominated me for this position and voted in favour of my candidacy, but I must say that I will not be sad at all or even sigh with relief if I am not voted for. [[Applause]] So I'm going to be grateful at the same time to those MPs who are now pressing the "against," "restraint" button or not pressing any button at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u136	Thank you, colleagues. It's a faction of the Fatherland political party, Olena Condratuk. If possible, do not delay the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u137	Honorable colleagues, respectable fellow students, respectable associations! I am grateful that I have the opportunity to speak today. And before I speak, I would like to remind you that this room has always made extraordinary decisions. This is the Act on the Declaration of Independence of Ukraine, this is the adoption of the Constitution, this decision on accession to the EU and NATO. And I would like most of the laws that will be passed in this very room to be adopted, not by separate factions, not by separate groups, but by all the national MPs for the benefit of the Ukrainian people, for the benefit of the Ukrainian people and for the benefit of that state. I have deep respect for my colleagues, Mr. Mustafa, Mrs. Irina, and I wish them the best productive work in this room. In my work, I promise to use four principles. First of all, it's decency. The second is professionalism. The third is patriotism. And the fourth, dear colleagues, is partnership. In this room today 87 women are admitted to the ranks of the national deputies. If you remember from history, there were 11 women in the first convocation. I think that partnership for justice, for the sake of the rights and opportunities of women and men, is the prerogative of this Parliament. We should set an example for the State as a whole. And you know what I'd like to do? I would very much like the Friday of the session to turn into a full - time workday for which many drafts can be adopted and, rather, the state has actually gotten up in our smartphone. Thank you very much for your attention. I very much hope that many of my colleagues know my work, they know my activity both in opposition and in the ability to work in the majority. I want to be in a good mood and to accept our entire daily routine as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u138	Mrs. Konstanovic, MP Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u139	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, first of all, I would like to welcome us all to the new stage of nationalization. And the main motto of our work is responsibility for those people who have entrusted us with their destiny. Responsibility is exactly what I did in my previous parliamentary vocation, responsibility is what distinguishes me in my work as a national deputy major. I represent Volin, I represent the region of Ukraine, which can be commended for the fact that in the Senate of Poland there was the only female senator, Olena Levchenivska. Today I would like to speak on behalf of non-fractic MPs, from major MPs who represent a large number of Ukrainian voters, are the national MPs who know the realities of Ukrainian life. These are the national MPs who know what medical service is really like, those national MPs who know what education in rural school, those national MPs who know that in Volina on September 1st, the children of the two villages of Lubohina and the Axemen will not go to the newly built schools. The schools are built, they're waiting for the kids, but they're hanging a doorknob, and they're going to the Chewchenk house. So this knowledge of life, responsibility and what I say, conscience, will move me to ask you to support me in this responsible work. I don't think it's prestige, I don't think it's proud, I think it's responsible. That's why I thank the "For the Future" group with the very symbolic title "For the Future," which put out my candidacy. And let the words of John-Frank from the prologue to the poem "Moses," "My people, your future I am concerned" become common to all of us. May the future of the Ukrainian people move us to act responsibly, decisively, and honestly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u140	Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u141	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues! My little experience in this room certainly gives me reason to believe that, with all due respect to my fellow National Majority deputies, to the Future Group, to the Fatherland faction, to the Voice faction, as well as to the European Solidarity faction, all issues are resolved solely by the Servant of the People. The choice of vice-speaker from the opposition will be solely your decision. Much has already been said that the decision has been made, but perhaps we would not have been an opposition if we had not defended not so much the rights of our faction as the rights of those who voted for us. I want to remind you that "The Opposition Platform for Life" took second place after "The Servant of the People" and first declared its opposition. So we're today in numbers -- the first opposition faction in the Supreme Council of the Ninth Call. As a result of the elections that took place on July 21st, we won in two regions – Donetsk and Lugansk. Have you felt the weight and complexity of these words of our Donbas? And this is our Donbas. In seven regions, we got second place, in six regions, third place. Here are our Olympic fairs, champions of the world, who know the complex weight of bronze. My experience in the Supreme Council of six calls will certainly contribute to the organization of the work of our Supreme Council on the ninth call. In this position in case of your support, if it is given, and, above all, the support of the Servants of the People, because if the entire opposition is now united, there are no 226 votes. In this position, I will do my best to ensure that cooperation between the power coalition and the opposition is as effective as possible. In the main issue that we all have, I believe, is the most painful, namely, the question of halting the fire at Donbassa, the elimination of the consequences of hostilities, the establishment of peace and the preservation of the lives of our citizens of war and civilians. I am absolutely convinced that in my post as deputy to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would be able to promote coordination on the speedy adoption of those normative acts that really realize the aspirations of almost 90 percent of our citizens, namely, to bring peace back to our country. And that's the main thing for me, more important than any position in our country. Because when I was working as a minister for emergencies, I really saw what the cost of a person's life is, which is joy, and the loss of life is woe. So today, having the right to claim this position, taking into account traditions, and I want to say that when we created the majority, it was always the biggest opposition faction that got a place in the Presidium, or the First Deputy, or Deputy. Dear colleagues, I hope you will decide that today’s action will be the first step toward unity and peace in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u142	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Sign up for factions. One minute. Belkova. Turn on the microphone. Sobolen. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u143	Dear colleagues! I think it's a decision that should be personalized not just by the principles of Parliament's work, but by a decision that is already being discussed in every speech. What we lost, and I emphasize, lost ten years ago in the Rules: the rights and duties of the majority; the rights and duties of the opposition. It wasn't because I'm talking to colleagues who said that we had a change of state from parliamentary-presidential to presidential-parliamentary. The opposition is both in the parliamentary-presidential, like most, and in the presidential-parliamentary. This is the principle of Parliament's work. I believe that Helen will be able to represent with dignity the position and women, the position of those deputies who have always advocated the key principles of Parliament's work. Parliament is a place for discussion, a place for broad discussion and a vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u144	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u145	My friends, I am deeply convinced that a woman in the Presidium is beautiful, so first of all, I suggest you support a woman in the Presidium. I want to say that Irina Miroslavovna Konstankevich is a member of the Supreme Council of two appeals, a man of great experience. You know, not so many deputies who have come have stayed from the old Parliament. Irina Miroslavovna is one of the people who voted in favour of her as senior deputy for the first time in 2016 in the election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in Volina, more than 70 percent of the people. She has now shown one of the best results in Ukraine among self - promotion workers, with about fifty percent of the people voting for it. Being a senior member of the women’s team today is very difficult. That is why I believe that this will not only be the decoration, honour and conscience and the dignity of Parliament. Please support Irina the Peacekeeper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u146	Thank you. The Cabal, the Voice faction. Out of place, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u147	I give the word to Svetoslav Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u148	Please turn on the microphone of the Holy Vacarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u149	Good afternoon, everyone. We haven't had a chance to speak yet. I think we're hoping to step out of the faction from the rostrum. We welcome everyone to the start of the new session of the newly elected parliament. We also hope that when they take the word, they will be truly constructive and will not use either the voices or the rostrums of one or more positions. Now essentially. Of the four candidates proposed, we consider 2 candidates Mustafa Djemilev and Elena Kondratjuk to be acceptable to the Voice party and who can represent a worthy presidency. We will never vote for the representative of the Opposition Platform, both for the Presidium and for the position of committee heads. This is our principle position, the voice party proposal. As far as I'm concerned, I'm referring to my previous esteemed national MPs. Realizing that each voice should be used constructively.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u150	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u151	Thank you. We will vote constructively for both of us, and we will respectfully accept the one who has won more votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u152	Thank you. Sophia Fedina, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u153	The great colleagues, "European Solidarity", have declared their opposition. That's why we have the right to claim Vice Speaker's chair. And in this position, we are proposing a person who is not only a hero of Ukraine, not only a leader of the Crimean Tatar nation, a human rights fighter, but also one of the most important people not only in this parliamentary room, but also in all of Ukraine. Mustafa Jemiliev is essentially the voice of Crimea and the voice of the occupied territories. And if we really are a parliament that wants to bring Crimea back home, which wants Donbas to be home again, then we have to appoint a person who will retranslate the positions of those regions and who will for all the people in occupied territories symbolize that we are not giving up and we are fighting for territorial integrity, the sovereignty of Ukraine. It is also a powerful signal for the international community that Crimea is Ukraine, Donbas is Ukraine, and we will fight for Ukraine to be sovereign and whole. With all due respect to Ms. Helen Condratuk, we have a statement from Fatherland in public space that they're not going in.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u154	Thank you. Thank you, colleagues. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u155	And so this is the position of the opposition faction, the opposition faction. Nestor Schufrich voted in favour of the criminal laws of January 16. We feel that such a person cannot be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u156	Thank you. My colleagues, thank you. It's a royal one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u157	Dear colleagues, I welcome you to the beginning of the new political era in our country and wish everyone the most important is the peaceful heavens. And it's a challenge, and it's a major challenge for each of us. And now we are forming the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we're the second-largest faction of Parliament, representing 2 million citizens of Ukraine. We are the biggest and only real opposition in our parliament. And we're proposing to be the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a brave, real, sincere Ukrainian, my friend and colleague, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. And we're asking you to support us. We'll win together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've run out of time to discuss. Let's move on to making a decision. Since we have 4 candidates, I propose a rating vote on the basis of proposals. The first offer was Mustafa Jemilev. Colleagues, please take your seats, take your seats in the hall, colleagues. Let's take a seat, please. Secretariat, please invite the national deputies to the hall, those who have left. Colleagues Ready to Vote? Ready to vote? Colleagues, the first proposal was from the "European Solidarity" faction, Mustafa Jemiliev. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:50:41]] For-59 Thank you. 59. The second proposal made by the faction of the Political Party of "The Fatherland" is Condratuk Olena Konstantinovna. Please support and vote. [[16:51:07]] For 290 Thank you. [[Applause]] The third candidate is Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:51:31]] For-49 The fourth candidature is Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:51:52]] For-48 Colleagues, because in the rating vote, most of them won the Constankevich Olena Konstantinovna. Oh, Condratuk, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Condratuk Olena Konstantinovna. We have to vote again. To vote again to have 226 or more votes of support. I'm betting on voting for the post of Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Condratuk Olena Konstantinovna. Please be supportive. [[16:52:39]] For 318 Thank you. 318. Decision taken. Irina Constantine, please take a seat in the Presidium. Please have the apparatus ready to make the right decisions. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to the next question of order of the day, namely. Irina Constantine, please. Olena. I'm sorry, Olena Constantine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we move on to the next issue of the agenda on the announcement of the Ukrainian President's extra-commitment message on Ukraine's internal and external status. Honourable National Deputies, distinguished guests, are attending the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the President of Ukraine, Vladimir Aleksandrovich Zelenski. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, at a meeting of the Supreme Council, are present: representatives of public organizations and media, heads of diplomatic representations from foreign nations, and other officials. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite the President of Ukraine, Mr. Alexander Zelensky, to announce the extracurricular message on Ukraine's internal and external status.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u159	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! First of all, I want to talk to you. Please have a seat. Please, let's do less of an unnecessary dialogue. Let's work. Let's vote now. I beg you, the people are waiting. Okay? Less texting. [[Applause]] Less texting. Please, more laws. We're all waiting. The Honorable Speaker! Olena Condratjuk!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u160	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u161	Thank you. I welcome the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call to office and the start of work. Hello. [[Applause]] Yes, it is really unusual to see this hall filled. This is what we want to do forever, not just when we have a kerchet on the occasion of a formal meeting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Work. Work. There's gonna be an airship faster, so get to work. Dear Ukrainians, it has recently been 100 days since my presidential office. There were many, indeed, different grades, but, believe me, the most critical grade I give myself. This period can be called a quiet walk in dusks with the lights off and at the first speed. That's true. I am confident that now the country will finally be able to turn on the fifth speed and move confidently on the path of change. I am very glad that we have a parliament that is ready to work. Not to engage in populism, not to overwhelm important decisions by thousands of foolish amendments, but to put in place real reforms that the citizens of Ukraine are already tired of, and the entire civilized world. I am happy that the most effective and effective government will emerge most of the time to present an action programme for the approval of the annual investment programs of international investors. And so Ukraine will be in the focus of their attention. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, I can honestly tell you that greeting you would be a bit of an affront. The level of trust in the new parliament is enormous, and thus the level of responsibility and expectations is even higher. You have a number of calls and tasks. It's also the introduction of the people's government, and the long-awaited withdrawal of the MP's immunity, and the impeachment law. This is an active reform of the law enforcement and judicial systems. Continued reforms of decentralization and European integration. It's the liberalisation of the economy, it's the creation of a powerful investment magnet for foreign investment. The building of a digital state in a smartphone when the ranks in the states and hellish bureaucracy will end in the past. It's overriding raids, overcoming monopolies, overcoming smuggling. Gaining real energy independence, energy efficiency and addressing tariff problems. Industrial development, agricultural sector, infrastructure, medicine. Improving our education and rebirth of Ukrainian science. And most importantly, strengthening national security and defence. The end of the war on Donbas. That return, annexed by the Russian Federation, to Crimea. All of this is what our society expects, and everything we have to do with you. It's clear right now that the council of this gathering is going to go into history. Question one. How exactly do you have every chance to get into the textbooks -- like a parliament that did the incredible thing that made everything that you couldn't do in the last 28 years, like a parliament where there were no fights. I'm asking you, I've walked, I'm asking you, all of you, clicks, all of Ukraine is asking you. And it was just a simple day’s work for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Or, or, God forbid, you will enter history as a parliament that has existed for at least one year. [[Applause]] Actually, this is yours, this is our probationary term. Believe me, I already know that disbanding the Supreme Council is not so scary. [[Applause]] But I truly believe, it is true, from the heart, from the heart, I truly believe, and I sincerely hope that this will not happen. Let's do as everyone said here, all the deputies, all the parties, let's do it together. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u162	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. There's a five-minute recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u163	What's the break? Let's work. You have to work. [[Applause]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u164	Then let's thank Mr. President.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u165	Mr. Speaker, may I?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u166	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u167	Thank you. One, two, three. Can you hear me? Mr. Speaker, I'm not going anywhere anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the next issue of the agenda: the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Corresponding to the article. Vladimir Aleksandrovich, am I?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u169	Yes, yes, all of you, all of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u170	Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. President! In accordance with article 85, 114 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Prime Minister of Ukraine is appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the President of Ukraine. According to article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the coalition of MP factions made its proposal for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. In accordance with article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine submitted a nomination for the appointment of the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexia Valeriyovich. To represent the candidate for Prime Minister, we invite the President or.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u171	No, no, no, no, no, no. Let's move on, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u172	Okay. Then we won't waste time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u173	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u174	Considering that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules do not meet the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine concerning the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the next procedure for dealing with the matter is proposed. For a presentation on the main directions for future activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the candidate for office is given 10 minutes. Give the candidate time for questions from MP factions up to 10 minutes. On the show from the MP factions, take up to 10 minutes. I'll give you five minutes to speak from the National Deputies. If there is no objection, please approve the procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:04:16]] For 337 Thank you. 337-yes. Against 0. It's been held up to 17. So let's get to the point. Decision taken. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Mr. President, honourable national MPs, the statement is given to the candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, Honcharuku Aleksija Valeriyovich. Please, Mr. Goncharuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u175	Congratulations, distinguished national MPs! This is a very exciting moment. Thank you for the high trust and opportunity to speak here. Thank you, Mr. President. It's a great honor to meet you. In recent weeks, I have rarely been on the Internet. There you can read a lot of interesting things, including about me, and learn a lot about yourself. But there was this video that was sent to me yesterday. Since 2013, where I have been in Maidan with my friends, I have been explaining something so emotionally to individual journalists. We were trying to put up tents, and someone was against it, and I explained why it was so important. Why it is important to do something to change the country. Then I asked who I was, and I said that I was a citizen of Ukraine. Since then, nothing has changed in this regard. I'm an ordinary Ukrainian citizen. But something else has changed. It was scary back then in Maidan. I remember that feeling very well. Not right now. There's no fear in this country right now. And that's the main profit that we have after Maidan. [[Applause]] A new generation has come to power in Ukraine. You are the youngest member of the Supreme Council in all of its history, best confirmed. Another interesting fact about this convening of the Supreme Council, if I'm not mistaken, is that there's a record number of women in it. There are so many women here -- beautiful, strong, intelligent. [[Applause]] I think both of these patterns should be passed on to the government. [[Applause]] This government is going to be very difficult. You all know about these problems that we have in the country: these are debts that we have inherited. This is an objective reality. In the following year, 1 in 3 bracelets will be spent on debt service. It's a broken infrastructure, and every day we have a locomotive burning on the Cruise Station, describing the roads to you doesn't make any sense, you know that. We're in a terrible state of utilities, we're in separate cities, we're lighting up space, well, actually 50 percent of the heat, it's going into the air. We have over 10 million people living outside of poverty. We have a war in the East. And we still have it under all these circumstances, we still have corruption. We still haven't been able to handle the fact that someone's coming to power to watch something. This needs to be done. And we'll do it. There will be no stealing in the new government. We've got it. [[Applause]] Before this new government. That's not enough. This new government faces the most important challenge: economic growth. Because all of these problems that I've listed are solved by economic growth. We need to increase, not by 2-3 percent, but at least by 5-7. Minum! This will allow us to get a little bit closer to the level that is now acceptable in the world. What Is Needed for Economic Growth? We actually know all these recipes. For economic growth -- and by the way, it's going to give us a million jobs, we don't have to forget that we have people coming from the country very often because they can't find places here, they can't realize themselves, it's very important. So that's what it takes for us to have jobs in order for us to have an economy. Actually, it's very simple. It takes cheap resources to start. We have very expensive resources, we don't believe as a country. They do not believe because we have been acting for a long time so that we do not deserve to be trusted. This needs to be changed. I've already said that in Ukraine there could be a mortgage in a bracelet between 12 and 13 percent. That's exactly what we can do next year. This year’s rate of interest on loans may be declining. People will start doing business. This can start construction and industry. Cheap lending is one of the tactical goals that we will set for ourselves in the near future. Of course, we cannot interfere with the independence of the National Bank. We understand that very well. It's not a political body, and their independence, in principle, is the basis for the country's macro-stability. We can't blow it up, we won't believe it. But the government has to be in constant dialogue with the National Bank so that they don't be too conservative to let go sometimes, sometimes allow a little bit more to go down there, a credit rate so that people can get the resources and use them for their own business, to buy housing and so on, and so on. We'll do it. Another important circumstance. It is very important for us to change our attitude toward Ukraine in the world. It's about image. Our credit rating speaks for itself. All these speculative names are not offensive, but this is the result of our working together for the last decade. This needs to be changed as soon as possible. And the basis for such changes should be cooperation with our international partners and creditors. So in a few weeks in Kiev, there's going to be an IMF mission with which we're going to negotiate a new three-, four-year cooperation program with Ukraine. Cheap resources are the first circumstances. The second is equal rules. For a long time in the country, a large number of people thought that Ukraine could be used as a state to create competitive advantages. We'll stop it. The iron road, the archer, the oatmeal, and so on, and so on, cannot be used to gain income at the expense of others. This means that energy plants, infrastructure are areas in which competition must be given priority. This means that Ukraine will want to integrate with the European Energy Market. We know that this is going to happen in 2023, it's going to take a very long time, we're going to do everything we can to keep it at least as close as possible to that date. All of this in combination with others there will result in fewer numbers being paid. We're going to stop the inefficientness, we're going to stop paying the profits to the monopolies. This is another very serious, very difficult, but extremely high-priority task of the government. The president has set a very ambitious task. He goes, "No, no, it's been a long time. No, no, it's been a long time, let's do what we have to do in five or six months." I totally agree with him. I don't see any reason not to approve this year already (3-4 months we have all the necessary systems, structural bills, and then next year work on their implementation. This year, it is equally important to clean up corruption taxes, to put the tax administration in order. Business, a taxpayer, should feel comfortable with the state. We have a great, I think, manager, and we're going to be supportive. We've got it. [[Applause]] Another problem in Ukraine is smuggling, you know, it kills competition, it doesn't allow business to develop. This too needs to be stopped. We know very well how to do that. There is already a normal interaction between the new customs service, the foreign service. Give God, with the police, the U.S.S. will also be an even better government relationship. And I'm counting on us to forget about smuggling by the end of the year as a systemic phenomenon. I'm done. I'm sorry. So among the priorities, among other things, because of what we need to do, we need economic growth not as an end in itself. We have a lot of people living outside the poverty line, and we can't forget about them. We have an inadequate subsistence minimum in Ukraine. The minimum we have on paper doesn't really give a person a chance to live. One classic said that wisdom begins with saying things by their names.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u176	Give me an hour, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u177	Thank you. Sorry again. So we'll probably start with what we start by calling things our names. It's a minimum of living, corruption and so on and so forth. We have already worked with the team and there are already 37 drafts in the Supreme Council, which are our first steps. I'm happy to share these ideas and ideas with you. And now I ask you to support my candidacy and the team I'm going to propose to you in case I get that kind of support. Thank you very much. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I suggest we move on to questions from the MP factions. Please sign up. People's deputy Gus. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u179	Good afternoon. 19th Precinct, Volin. I think today this room will vote in favour of your candidacy. I would like to focus on a very important topic that, unfortunately, the government of Groysman and Minister Nasalik have not moved from a dead spot, this is a situation in the coal sector. I represent the district where the country's only 10 mines are built, where the mass of problems, as well as my colleagues representing Lviv, the Lviv-Volín coal pool, unfortunately, I can say for Volin, former Minister Nasalik has never visited us or looked at this situation in three years, and I have not proposed a solution. I would very much ask you, after the election with the new minister, to visit Volin, Lviv and try to find a solution, to offer the country a decision that we are doing with the coal industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u180	Do you want me to answer? Yes, of course I did. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u181	Thank you. European Solidarity faction, Savrasov. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u182	Thank you. We'll ask you a question a little later.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u183	I got it. Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u184	Mr. President, I fully agree with you and I'm prepared to quote a part of your statement that we need an economic increase of 7 percent, no less, that it's the debt pressure that's been restructured this year for the next year. The question is very specific. Do you think it's necessary to start negotiations because it's a two-way process with those who can restructure these debts on new terms? Because what's the 7 percent increase if today's restructuring conditions take everything that's above 4? What are the conditions for restructuring, if we understand correctly, who will benefit from the actual restructuring situation? Your position on what to do with restructuring, how to get into a new phase of negotiations with partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u185	In fact, the answer is very simple. Anyone we can talk to about restructuring needs to be talked to. But a positive outcome is possible if you are trusted. So building trust in the country, as I said, is a top priority. After they start to believe in you, you can find cheaper resources and replace them with more expensive loans. We have ideas about this, we are familiar with the existing approved debt policy strategy of the past government. It has some flaws, and we have ideas about how to improve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u186	Thank you. Klimenko, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u187	Mr. Alexia, I have a question. The world’s economies are starting to slow down, and the world is falling into recession, especially in European, Asian markets. Please tell us what is the plan for Ukraine to grow rapidly under such conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u188	The special thing about the economy in Ukraine is that it's very mobile. If we look at how our economy behaves in crisis conditions, we will see that Ukraine usually falls deeper and emerges from the crisis longer. It's very simple things. Well, I mean, crises happen to everyone. The question is whether you're ready for a crisis or not. We need to make the economy more mobile. You have to cancel the extra restrictions, the weights. We need to move away from the planned economy. Because a planned economy, especially in our circumstances, especially when we're very resource-dependent, is a bad story. That's the first one. The other one. Of course, other factors in the world need to be used. You know that individual countries are starting trade wars among themselves, and we need to think about how to grow up in these conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u189	Thank you. The faction of the political party "Serve of the People", Danilo the Gethmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u190	Thank you. I will definitely support your candidacy because I've been working with you since May and I know you as a professional. But I want to ask you a question, though. You know, we got it today when we walked into this room, we got a paper called "The Mirror of the Week," a special project. These are pictures of more than 300 mothers who lost their children in the war. Actually, you can't look at that without tears. Please tell us that if their children are to die in vain, we must first develop an economy. I want to hear from you the first steps that you as Prime Minister will take in order to make our economy the most powerful in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u191	Look, there are no simple solutions as if they were complex problems. First steps. Well, personally, my first steps are personnel. I think there's some individuals behind these particular areas who are still drinking our resources with you, and they're still sharing for their own benefit, so some government assets. So in a packet of 37 bills that I've listed, there are also bills that improve the rental systems of municipal property and government purchases, and so on and so forth. That's the first one. Well, that's two. Of course, human resources decisions need to start with an evaluation of effectiveness. We intend to analyze the activities of all organs in the coming month and to release all inefficient leaders. And by the way, there's nothing to analyze, I don't know, there's, like, a DABI, for example, a Statecomm, it's all on the way out right now, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u192	Thank you. The Opposition Platform for Life faction, Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u193	Dear Mr. Alexia, today the most important task for all of us is to protect people, protect people from hostilities, from tariffs, from petty pensions and wages, from poverty, and to build a self-sustaining and independent economy in our country, regardless of the IMF and other world institutions. Please tell us your first three major steps toward peace and the protection of people. Three, clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u194	Look, the government is just a part of the state. We have the Supreme Commander, we have the Ministry of Defense, we have the Security Service. What you're asking is not just the government, but the task of our entire great team. So in answer to that question, I would like to consult. The only thing I can say is that the solution to the issue, including war, including the protection of our country, I personally see in economic growth. Because if the economy goes up, there's investment, if there's investment, they're starting to be protected, including their owners. We will need to invest in those areas that have been affected by this disaster and to strengthen our army, on the one hand, on the other hand. I see the next scenario. We need to understand what we can do for those who have suffered from war. First. And the second. We need to demonstrate that we are strong enough that the next time the enemy does not come to our land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u195	Dear colleagues, time for questions is up. Let's move on to the candidature discussion. So you refused, Irina Volodymyrna. No, it's okay. Thank you. Questions. Question time is up. Let's move on to the discussion. Please register with the factions of the National Deputies. Mr. Hotcharuk, I think you can take a seat in the bed. Thank you. [[Applause]] Please turn on the microphone. National MP Bondar, Group For the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u196	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, my fellow officers! Indeed, today is one of the most important moments in our country’s history when we make a decision about what the next government will be like. We've been presented with a candidate for the head of government, and we understand that as major MPs, there's an extremely large range of questions in people to this person. We've heard a lot lately that, at the request of the IMF, Ukraine has to sell forests, sell land, sell all the major enterprises, cruise, nuclear stations and so on. This frightens people, and it causes a real misunderstanding that will continue. In this regard, we propose, however, that before voting, that we comply with the rules of the Rules and that we meet a future candidate in the Prime Minister with each parliamentary group, with a half-hour parliamentary faction, so that we ask these questions, so that we can clearly understand what to say to people, who will ultimately do this composition of government, how it will respond to these questions. And then, if we understand what logic is, we'll be happy to have real transformations in Ukraine to be real normal positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u197	Thank you. Fatherland, Alona Shkrum. From where? Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u198	Please pass the word to Vadim Yvchenk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u199	We've confirmed -- one minute, you can see the stenographer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u200	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Mr. President, the honorable leadership of the Supreme Council, the honourable colleagues! You know, I went out to this rostrum to warn you of one mistake. We know that the decision to eliminate the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food has been made. The ministry that today gives 17 percent of gross domestic product, 40 percent of the foreign exchange. Our bracelet today is kept directly on the currency proceeds that come from the agrarian complex. Colleagues, a lot of meetings need to be held by the minister in order to expand the quota a little bit. Many meetings on the Council of Ministers of the APC of the European Union. Believe me, this is a complicated process. And we don't have to tell our partners that the deputy minister or the head of the department is coming. Believe me, these markets are someone to close or close. These markets need to be conquered. And it's a strategic mistake for our exports if we cancel the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. And finally. I'm not sure how the minister will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u201	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u202	I'm not sure how the economy minister will report to the government on pesticides, how he's going to report on herds, about herb reduction, and so on. We'd like the agrarians to have a lobbyist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u203	The Opposition Platform for Life faction, Yuri Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u204	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, the National MPs! I'm frankly disappointed by the presentation by Prime Minister Alexia Valeriyovich, because there are brilliant plans when there is a thorough analysis, but I think there are wrong priorities. Because all of this can stay on paper if the main problem is not solved, the main tragedy in the country is the end of the war in the east. No investment – internal, external and other – will be in the country unless we decide and give priority to this. And the government, I disagree with you, has a crucial role to play in this process of restoring economic relations in uncontrolled territory, with the support of the people living there, by creating a normal investment climate there in areas in the front zone. If it doesn't, everything else will be on paper. That is why we cannot support the candidacy proposed by the President of the country, since we do not see the priority of a solution to peace in the eastern part of the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u205	Thank you. Mikola Knieżicki, faction of European Solidarity. Alexei Hotcharenko, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u206	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, faction of European Solidarity, north of Odščina. You know, so far the only advantage of our candidate for Prime Minister, known to me personally, is the very similarity of our names. By the way, when he was appointed vice president of the President’s Office, several people called and greeted me. I mean, you don't have to greet me. He's a different person. But I have one question. What success story has brought this man to the candidates, and now he will become Prime Minister, the largest country in Europe? What strategy was presented to us with some specific figures on what will be done, and how? How was he taken? Vladimir Alexandrovich, I want to remind you of your pre-election promise. You wrote that reason for appointment is intelligence, education, talent, and conscience. Not that we used to baptize children together and make movies together. Open competitions are guaranteed for officials. At which contest did you choose Mr. Alexi or, as always, have you conducted films? I don't understand why we have to vote for this person today, for what gains he's made or what brilliant strategy he's presented us today? The faction of "European.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u207	Thank you. Thank you. It's been 15 seconds. Thank you. I think let's make it more accurate.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u208	Ten seconds, I have to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u209	Yes, thank you. The Voice faction, Jurchisin. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u210	I'm right, 10 seconds to finish. This is the norm of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u211	I understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u212	Yeah, why don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u213	Deal, give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u214	Thank you very much. Thank you. Just a crazy rule, one minute to discuss the Prime Minister. The "European Solidarity" faction is in opposition, so we will not vote for the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u215	I think Alexia Hotcharyenko should be thanking him. And for Pottery, you might even vote for what you really are. Thank you. [[Applause]] Jurchisin Jaroslav, Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u216	I give the word to Svetoslav Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u217	Sveslav Vakarczuk, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u218	Dear Mr. President! Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! For the Voice party, as we've said many times before, he's designed most of all. We don't consider the procedural difference between the appointment of the government and the Prime Minister, we don't view it as a single category of government and prime minister, we understand that these are connected things. Apparently, the Prime Minister, who is represented by the President for the vote, has candidates. But we weren't part of the coalition negotiations, we don't know the composition of the government, we don't know what laws today are clearly prime laws that are proposed to vote. And with respect to Mr. Alexi, we know him as an expert and as a person who has the chance to make the reforms he spoke about, we are ready to support all the positive reforms of the government in the future and vote for them. But according to the Prime Minister's candidacy in this case, we believe that this is a constitutional right of coalition that has enough votes to do so, so the Voice party will not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u219	Thank you. Olga Vasilevska-Smagluk, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u220	Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor Alexei Valeriyovich! I am grateful and have great respect for the choice and recommendation of Mr. President to support the Prime Minister's candidacy, and I certainly support it. And thank you for giving me the opportunity to become part of the changes prepared by the team of the Potter. At the same time, Alexia Valeriovich, you've been appointed, and some people are already walking around saying they're from Honcharuk. For example, it was Olga Sitnik, who came to the State Department and said quite insolently that she would lead the changes in the forest. I'd like to urge you not to walk from Pottery just like we did recently from Connon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u221	Thank you, Olga. I think they'll be walking a lot from Pottery now, but he won't know them, and he'll be heading there. We ran out of questions from factions. Please sign up for a statement by the National Deputies. Lubinets National Deputy, Future Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u222	Your Honor, Mr. President, your Honorable colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister! I'm the man representing the Donetsk district, and, really, when you said that people stopped being afraid, you know, the first thought was, please come to Donetsk, to Donetsk County, come to Lugansk, really, there now. Ukraine's soul is now lying right there. So we want to say to you that, first of all, we really need to find a mechanism to stop the war, only that will allow the economy to grow. The other one. All the people who represent the major districts. I want to talk to you. First of all, people are concerned in the Donetsk region, in the center of Ukraine, in the west of Ukraine, about the high tariffs, about the fact that in rural areas, because of the short-term medical reform, the closing of the FAPs and the rural ambulances, what they're starting to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u223	Let's make a deal for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u224	start closing down rural schools. So we look forward to your government very much, and we look forward to this team. We will support you and we want to become part of Ukraine’s major changes with you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u225	Thank you. Taras Batenko, Future Group. Bondar, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u226	I'm going to continue my speech again, but I didn't need a minute. I want to reaffirm once again what we said that the meeting would be useful for the future prime minister and for the new composition of the government, because we really have a tremendous experience in helping the President to really implement the reforms and distortions that the whole country is looking for: reforming the transport sector, energy, to finally bring the order into these areas, because they are fundamental to Ukraine. Health care to complete all the foolish reform that has been going on here for five years and that has not ended, except that people are walking and asking that you help us heal and at least give us a penny to resolve the matter. So there are many questions, and we are ready to lay our shoulders in order to put order in the country and to actually make a shift, so that the country becomes rich, rich, modern, European, as people expect, and ready to help. But we suggest a meeting to agree on a plan of action and to agree gradually that each month must take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u227	Thank you. Natalia Royal, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u228	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues! Today, my colleagues and I registered 25 drafts. It's a road map like getting out of the crisis that's in our country today. And the most important task for each of us is to do everything we can to restore peace in order to protect the people who live there every day on the front line. And the main task for us is to correct the mistakes that have been made by the previous authorities, health reform, pension reform, education reform, this is the abuse that has been on people for the last five years, and today we can do it. Another month and each of us will be asked: How do we pay the tariffs, the tariffs that the government of Groysman has left us? And today I do hope that we will hear from the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u229	Let me finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u230	And then what are the tariffs going to be in the next place. Today, we need to protect our children, which is our future. And that's why we hope that the next government is going to be professional, open, competitive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u231	Lesya Vasilko, the Voice faction. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u232	Thank you. I'll pass on the word to Inni Sowsun.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u233	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u234	Good afternoon, Mr. President, Presidium, national deputies! I read on the BRDO website that Alexei Hotcharuk has the scientific degree of Ph.D. in law. Since there are no legal procedures for the appointment of a doctor of philosophy in Ukraine, it is suspected that he is a doctor of philosophy received abroad. And in that case, I have a question, and I'd like to hear a little bit more from the prime minister's candidate, and what are the plans for education reform? I don't want to talk about how we have a decline and so forth, but we have complex decisions that we have before us, we have a complex network of rural schools, we have a network of universities, we have an incomprehensible, uncertain status of the National Academy of Pedagogical Sciences. Unfortunately, none of this was mentioned in the Prime Minister's speech. I very much hope that in the next discussion we will hear more concrete steps: what exactly, why, for what purpose, how quickly we will do to reform education in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u235	Thank you. The time for discussion is over. I would like to point out and point out that the President has received a proposal for the Prime Minister's candidacy from a faction that is in line with part of article 83 of the Constitution, which is entitled and has rights as a coalition. And I propose to proceed to the vote in favour of Alexia Hotcharuk's candidacy as Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please support and vote. People's deputies, are you ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's put it to a vote. Please be supportive. [[17:42:48]] For 290 [[Applause]] Alexia Valeriovich, welcome. [[Applause]] Show me the factions, please. Thank you, colleagues. Thank you for your support. I propose to move on to the next issue of the agenda, namely, the appointment of a Ukrainian defence minister. In accordance with article 85, 106, and 114 of the Ukrainian Defence Minister’s Constitution, the Honourable National Deputies are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the request of the President of Ukraine. According to article 106, paragraph 10, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine submitted an application for the appointment of Ukrainian Defence Minister Andrija Pavlovich. The right materials are given to you. Ladies and gentlemen, the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to the floor. Ruslan Alexiyovich, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u236	Can I get out of here?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u237	Yeah, I think it'll be okay if you're out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u238	Yeah. As already noted, in accordance with articles 85, 106, 114 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Ukrainian Defence Minister is appointed by the Supreme Council for the submission of the President of Ukraine. According to article 106, paragraph 10, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine submits an appointment for the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Andrija Pavlovich. Please support this submission.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u239	Thank you. First of all, I would like to invite the Prime Minister of Ukraine to take his place in the government's bed. What? Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to speak on behalf of the defense minister of Ukraine, Mr. Zagradnjak. Mr. Prime Minister, candidate for Secretary of Defense. [[B in m in s a l in]] The president's running for office, yes. Please invite a candidate for the Secretary of Defense. Please invite a candidate to serve as minister. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I suggest you take a break for 15 minutes, even less. I'll see you at 6 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u240	Dear colleagues, there is a request to invite everyone into the hall, we continue our meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u241	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. Let's get to work. Colleagues, he's already a candidate for the Secretary of Defense. Please take your seats. Thank you. Dear colleagues, take your seats, please. The President of Ukraine is also present at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's get started. [[B in m in s a l in]] So there was an offer without discussion? Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Thank you. Let's continue our work. I invite you to take the floor as Defence Minister Andrija Pavlovich Zagradnjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u242	Ladies and gentlemen, is it good to hear? Five minutes of my talk, after which I will be very happy to answer your questions. The main question is how do we see the Armed Forces in the next few years. And I can say two things that I've spent almost three years in the Ministry of Defense as the head of the Reform Office as a completely civilian person who, by the age of 14, had no relation in practical terms, if you don't mind the military department at the University of Kiev, I am absolutely, that is, by the age of 14, I had nothing to do with it. I mean, when he came in, it was a completely fresh look. And then every day, for about three years, we were reforming the Ministry of Defense and the Armed Forces. What can I say about this? First. Our Armed Forces are as strong as their strength. The main thing that we need to do is to take priority number one, absolutely, is to return the policy, the state policy that the Ministry of Defence should do for the support of the government and for the support of the Supreme Council, the face of a simple military officer. This may sound, as it were, declarative, but believe me, it's a completely practical question. Today, we have a very sharp question about assembly. Today, we have a very sharp issue of discipline. Today, we are very keen on the issue of liberation. And we have a very strong social security issue, and in general, let's say, the question of how many military personnel see themselves and their future in the Armed Forces. The Armed Forces during the war is an extremely, absolutely, very responsible question. The question is from the point of view of frame preparation. And we have to invest a lot of money, we have to make great efforts to keep our military personnel in order higher than the enemy's military. Then we have a very serious chance, as it were, to achieve our tasks, the battle tasks that we're doing. Of course, after we spend our time, training, training, and so on, that is to say, training troops, it is vital that they remain. And that's a major question for us both from a moral point of view and from the point of view of our strategy and so forth. The second question is finally from words to action to reforming NATO standards. Because our abilities are said to be small red army will never defeat a large red army. I mean, we do. I'm not saying we're a red army now. Of course, we have changed very seriously in recent years, but there is still a great deal of work to be done. And from a lot of questions, let's say, we're a little behind those graphs that were developed once. And for us now, it's a huge task to really turn our army into an army of NATO standards. And finally, question three, priority three. It's not the only one, but it's a far third of the importance, but it's a question of what we call virtue. So everybody knows that in the army they're stealing, everybody knows that we have big, let's say, non-target resources are distributed, they're planned wrongly, and so on. It's a big question, an electorate who chose you, who, as it were, looked at us when we were in the Ministry of Defense. We know clearly that people are tired of these problems. They want absolutely practical, absolutely concrete solutions without, like, big anti-corruption programs, without, let's say, long ones, which no one can finish. Very clear decisions, very clear decisions. And that's what I'd like to stop at, because this priority for us, it's just impossible to compare with others. Of course, we have essentially technical issues, we have the question of developing a force strategy, we have the question of assembly, we have the question of technical policy, we have the question of international politics, we have the very difficult relationship with ours, let's say, some partners, with our allies, very good relationships to develop, and so on, and so on and so forth. So this is a big program. And I can say that this program itself will be offered to you in the near future and to the people of Ukraine in general, both short-term and long-term, so that everyone can see how development is planned, and not only the Armed Forces in general, but the defence forces in general. Because I can see, and we talked to the government as well as the newly appointed Prime Minister. Because the Ministry of Defence's function is not only to shape policies on the Armed Forces, but also to shape policies in general, how to develop a state defence strategy so that our citizens can sleep peacefully, work peacefully, investors to invest peacefully, without fear that tomorrow we'll be ready for the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up for a statement from the MPs. Let's move on to the discussion, please sign up. Gerus Andriy Mihajlovich, Political Party "Slut of the People", faction "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u244	Good afternoon. Thanks for the show, for the show. We will certainly support your candidacy. The only thing I'm specializing in energy is that I get a lot more complaints, especially from the military, about the lack of funding even for electricity. I'd like to talk to you about this, and this is where the decision is to lower tariffs for non-profit consumers from September 1st. And that's the question of paying for residential services, and today it's sharp even for the military. I'd like us to have a chance to talk with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u245	Absolutely agreeable, the question is very serious. But if you're talking about energy, first of all, you're absolutely right. But, you know, when we left and talked to regular people, literally a while ago, the main question about energy carriers is when the fuel theft ends. Because, to be honest, this situation is already of an endemic nature. And if we're talking about resource allocation, frankly, we have a huge reserve in terms of the purpose of using some of the resources that we're already giving. But you're absolutely right, what you said, we're going to work, really, it's a lot of questions about the status of the military at all, how they pay, how they exist, how they hold on. And in general, for example, we compared the repair of existing objects and the construction of new ones, for example, from fast - mounted structures, so to speak, to say the truth, in many cases it is better to build new ones than to support old ones. Because from the point of view of energy efficiency, and from the point of view, it's even possible to even compare.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u246	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u247	Compare. But it's an endless question. Yes, thank you. If there's any more questions, I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u248	Yes, there is. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u249	Dear colleagues, I address the entire hall. In view of the fact that sociological research in recent years has consistently shown that the issue of war and peace is a priority for Ukrainian citizens, we understand the enormous responsibility of the President in this regard. The faction therefore made a unanimous decision to support the President in his efforts. So we're going to vote for all the assignments of the force block and we're going to call on the entire room to support it. Let's help the President. [[Applause]] We know what a huge burden both on the Ministry of Defence and on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and on the Security Service and on the Attorney General. Colleagues, here I ask you to throw aside all political ambitions and support the President of Ukraine, on which he has a huge responsibility, and we must lay our shoulders. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u250	Thank you. Deputies for the Future, Gus Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u251	Good afternoon! Igor Goose. Dear Mr. Andrey Pavlovich! I'd like to support my colleague, Mr. John, by voting for you today, and we're looking at millions of us, we trust the President of Ukraine in this situation. And you have to understand that you have a responsibility, too, because you know, in the presidential election, just on the front, a large part of the electorate, those who were on the front didn't support the former Commander-in-Chief. I would very much like you not to repeat this fate. And the last one is so small. I'd like you to pay particular attention to the question that you know, this is the question of building housing for military personnel, especially the question of bureaucracy, the question of repo, the question of contractors and all that has to do with it, it has to be transparent. And in preparation for the budget of the 20th year, you and I have to bet a lot more money on these functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u252	Thank you. Thank you. I wanted to say that among the other factions are the people that we worked side by side with at the Ministry of Defense, went to the military, all the stress that we've been through since the 14th to this year. And I think, frankly, we have one goal in this. The absolute policy now supported by the President's Party, a policy supported by most other factions, is exactly the same in terms of our attitude towards the Armed Forces. So we're all in the same boat, so to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u253	Thank you. The faction of the European Solidarity political party, Klimpus-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u254	Please pass the word to Sophia Fedin. Oh, I'm sorry, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u255	Irina Heratschenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u256	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to thank you for having made a very objective call to both the Ukrainians and to the session room that has changed a lot in recent years in the army. I think you saw it directly, as you joined the public council in the ministry. We've adopted a new National Security Act that needs to modernize the army under NATO standards, and we'd like to hear from you as well as what terms you're setting here. Second, using the presence of the President of Ukraine here, we would like to address the faction, asking not to reduce any amount of military funding to keep it up to six percent of GDP on the force structure and priority for the army. Third, there's a lot of talk in this room today about gender equality, and we respect all of the Ukrainian women who have signed the same contract. Today, over 25 thousand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u257	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u258	30 seconds, please. Friends, let's give a round of applause to Ukrainian women, 25,000 Ukrainian women today, they're in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. [[Applause]] And we ask you to apply gender equality standards in the same way so that we have more female officers and for the first time there was a female general. And so, using the presence of the President of Ukraine here, Mr. President, there's been alarming information that in the Luhansk region, in Sevierodonetsk, where we find ourselves, we have two military hospitals, the 59th hospital, which in its time even took our wounded from Luhana Airport today does not renew the new authority. doesn't extend the presence, rent to this hotel. Please note this so that the military hospitals do not go unnoticed by the Ministry of Defense or outside the new authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u259	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u260	Thank you. If I may, two comments, if I may. Well, first of all, women in the army. A huge step has been taken in the last few years on this issue. And what's left for the absolute equalization of women and men in the army, we're going to do it because it's absolutely. It's perfectly consistent with all the practices, it's perfectly consistent with our approach, it's perfectly consistent with the concept of civilian control over the Armed Forces, and for which we stand at 100 percent. That's the first one. The other one. As far as the medics are concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u261	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u262	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u263	Turn it on. Please, the president's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u264	You don't have to. Tell me, please, and you know it. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u265	No, I don't. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u266	Who's doing this under the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u267	Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u268	Department of Defense. Under the law of the Ministry of Defense. Before that, Mrs. Heratschenko, I will pay attention to this, but, please, the next time you say "new power doesn't last," I want to tell you that the new authority will be responsible when you vote for our new defence minister. Thank you. [[Applause]] Okay, okay. We'll pay attention, I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u269	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u270	We'll pay attention, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u271	Thank you. Natala Royal, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u272	Dear future Secretary of Defense, we want to wish you success, and the country first of all peace. Almost every time we meet, we are asked what will happen to the military congregation. Because when he was appointed, he was never reported to, but where he was spent. We've heard of a violent corruption in the Ucrobanprom. And we ask you very much to get rid of each person who today, without a pension, understands that we need a strong army in the country, understands that this money is being spent on the assignment. And I'm also asking you very much, look at the question of Slovenian Kurt. As early as 2014, military personnel were stationed there, and over the past five years, we've had a lot of talks with the last Minister of Defense, and in part they have met the requests people have been asking for. But in part nothing is done. Slovenian resort is today a city of peace, and we ask you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u273	I heard. Thank you. I want to say that the credibility of peace is directly proportional to the willingness of our army to reflect all threats, so our preparation and our use of the resources that we have and will never be enough, in no army of the world is enough resources for all, as it were, ambitions and so forth. Yes, so resource efficiency, anti-corruption is going to be our absolute priority. Thank you. I heard about the military congregation, I heard about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u274	Thank you. Colleagues, time's up. Please enroll the national deputies for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u275	Thank you very much. If there are any questions, I'll be ready after that to answer, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u276	Thank you. Colleagues, sign up. Sophia Fedina, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u277	Thank you. Sophia Fedina, faction of European Solidarity. In fact, I have questions and positions about the candidate for the Secretary of Defense. In fact, the candidate was very active in implementing reforms. And I'd really like him to tell me his position and follow up on how reforms are now collapsing, especially on nutrition, when he's going off to the Soviet system, how to stop building hostels according to NATO standards, and many others. How long will these reforms continue? It would also be very important to understand how the reform of the governance system in the U.S.S.A. is being implemented, especially in the course of the war. In fact, it's on its knees. We also have a question of the Rome Statute, which, if we, God forbid, vote for it, each of our advocates at a particular time of travel abroad may be recognized as a criminal as it is now with Markov's situation. And so is the question, and the wish of the President and the Minister of Defense, after all, to initiate, in December, the question of putting on a plan of action for NATO membership, because that is security and peace in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u278	Thank you. David Arahamiah, the "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u279	I wanted to just, all my colleagues, thank the candidate for his speech and say that we have now, I think, the vote will show that we've all consulted with Andrey and we've seen his vision and we've shared him. But I want more on the Rules now. We've been working for five hours now when we go out for a break and ask people, "Well, how do you think we work, nice or not? – everyone says – 5 hours, you have 2 decisions: there is a Prime Minister and perhaps now there will be a minister of defense." Let's work so that we can somehow get through the turbulence and by, I think, by 2 p.m., by 3 p.m., we've accepted everything we've got for the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u280	Sergey Sobolev, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u281	Sobolje, Fatherland. Our position is quite clear: in times of war, we decided to vote for the Secretary of Defense. We have a single appeal, we have eight urgent bills, two of which relate to the special responsibility of those who stole from the army during the war. Request: Pay attention to these bills so that they do not remain words, but punish those who thought that war was another stage in making money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u282	Thank you. Mikhail Papiev, "The Opposition Platform for Life" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u283	Thank you. I would like to address the distinguished Andrew Pavlovich. And you know, there are positives today, because at the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, we know what was going on, let's say, a race of interests, and how much of the grantoids and everything. But we see that today the elected and appointed Prime Minister of Ukraine, who will still stand for the Ukrainian position. The same is true of the minister of defense. We hope that paradoxically, the minister of defense is very much involved in the issue of peace. In all these matters, you can count on the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." Where war is concerned, it's not for us. Nevertheless, there is every possibility today, with the participation of the President, with the participation of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council of Ukraine to bring about peace. Let's ask this question as number one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u284	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I would like to vote on the draft Decree (Registration No. 1023) on the appointment of Mr. Andrija Pavlovich as Minister of Defence of Ukraine. Please support and vote. [[18:42:20]] For 314 Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you. Decision taken. 314 in, 25 in, 14 in. Minister, please take your place in the government's bed. Show the factions, please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we turn to the next issue of the agenda. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, 106, and 114 of the Ukrainian Constitution, are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the President of Ukraine. According to article 106, part one, paragraph 4, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine submitted an application for the appointment of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Pristajk Vadim Volodimirovic. The relevant materials are given to you. Ladies and gentlemen, the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u285	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the President of Ukraine, in accordance with paragraph 10 of the first part of article 106 and part of the fourth 114th Constitution of Ukraine, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the application for the appointment of dock Vadim Vladimirovich as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Please support this submission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u286	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, the speech is given to the candidate for the post of Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Pristajek Vadim Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u287	Mr. President, distinguished nationals! Dear friends! I thank you for your choice. Those who don't know me, I want to introduce myself as part of the Ukrainian professional diplomatic service that works on the principles that have been established by the legendary Ukrainian diplomat Hennadi Hennadi Widow. I'm talking about the famous three Ps -- professionalism, patriotism, decency. I'm totally dividing it, but I'm going to add the fourth to the next one is pragmatism. That's right. Over the years. [[Applause]] Thank you. Over the years of independence, we have achieved much as a state, our diplomatic service. We have become an equal member of the world’s society. We were armed with our right to exist and an independent foreign policy course. We realized the bitter truth about the brotherhood of the North and the security assurances from the West. We clearly claim our ambitions for a just redistribution of resources in the world, for a part in international processes, for a place in human development. We just grew up as a nation. Now I'm going to demand that the Ukrainian diplomatic service rise to a new level of national interest, make a practical contribution to the development of our state, our economy, our culture, our education. Our job is to take Ukraine's place under the sun in the economic system, to return export markets, with one hand to push our exporter away, and with the other, to attract a real, real foreign investor to Ukraine. [[Applause]] Our activity will be subject to the appropriateness, convenience, and prospects of our partner. This does not mean that we forget our principles. No, it's not. But we have to learn from our foreign partners who never forget their energy, trade, transit, security interests. And we see how this is more difficult for Europe every subsequent renewal of sanctions against Russia, how the "North Stream 2" is being built up a little bit, and foreign leaders are once again pulling back to Moscow with visits, no more refusing to shake Putin's hands or even stationing with him. We will become stronger and will influence the order of the day's international relations in a beneficial way for us. I can't count on today to be able to share with you all the ideas and priorities of foreign policy, I hope to do later in our work with the deputy corps if you choose me. One of our foreign political priorities, though. Our greatest foreign policy priority, our number one task is to restore peace in the east, and our occupation, and our return to Crimea. For five long years, we have waged an unequal battle with the Russian Federation. Despite the dramatic predictions, we have survived this struggle, the least we can survive. We pay daily for the lives of our military and civilian, terrorist attacks in peaceful cities, victims of mines, explosive devices, slow civilizational development, strife, hatred and intolerance that have settled in our society. We have taken our last place among the nations of Europe. We can't live like this anymore and we won't. We need peace to accelerate economic and social development. We need coordinated efforts, internal investment, the activation of human capital to repair post-industrial production, the surge in exports. We need peace and stability, all we need is war. We cannot and will not have endless negotiations in different formats. I appreciate all the work that has been done to me, and I believe that through stubbornness, caution, sometimes the cunning of our predecessors, and certainly the support of our partners, we have managed to prevent a catastrophe, a full-scale war with Russia, which threatened complete disintegration and the disappearance of Ukraine from the international arena. Now for the next stage. As you know, the President has offered a series of compromises, primarily aimed at restoring ties with our own people, who have found themselves in the line of contact. At great cost, the prisoner exchange process has been relaunched, and the connection in one of the Lugansk Stanica test areas has been restored. We rebuild, where possible, infrastructure and provide social benefits. Work is done to create a system of active information resistance. I want to believe that these steps in support of the international community will bring signs, and we will be able to open a new page to the peace process. If the process goes further, we will look for and think about the next steps, the modality of the return of people to peaceful life, elections, amnesty, the removal of trade restrictions, the restoration of full control over our borders. Now it's not as important as we're going to do it -- whether it's because of an invitation to a peacekeeping mission, or through the implementation of a Minsk mission, it's critical otherwise: we're a mom for six months. I'm targeting diplomatic service for this six-year term. A few words about other foreign political priorities. President Zelenski's announcement remains unchanged: the EU and NATO. It's pretty clear here. There is a domestic work that needs to be done to bring our nation closer to one stretching hand, but more precisely to one political decision. There is the experience and resources of the members of these organizations that are at our disposal, including the financial ones. All we need to do is learn to use them effectively. Next level. Our neighbors, the nearest neighborhood. We will be thoughtful, creative, but in principle we can look for ways to restore friends around us. This is primarily true of Hungary, Poland, Romania. We need to keep a close eye on what is happening in Moldova and Georgia. This is the sphere of our immediate interests. The first contact with the Belarusian leadership is encouraging. The Baltic States remain our friends, who are well aware of all our problems and ready to act with us. The Central Eastern states of the former Soviet Union, like many African countries, Asia, Latin America, are specific partners. But we need to develop these contacts in order to expand our trade and create a positive image of our nation. I won't stay long on the guarantors of peace policy. Clearly, without the support of the seven-group, China, India, we cannot survive, we cannot develop. Multilateral parliamentary and cultural diplomacy, close ties with foreign Ukraine, are all the tools that we will use. Finally, I want to bring you back to the beginning of our conversation -- pragmatism in everything. As a new minister, requiring a diplomatic service to be clear about the benefit of the State, the people benefit from every international visit, contact, signed memorandum, voice-supported conference or cultural action, every visa or passport issued, every spent bracelet, dollar, pound and tenge, protection of Ukrainian citizen and company abroad, promotion of Ukrainian exports, goods and services, Ukrainian language, culture and art. It's supposed to be number one for the diplomatic service. All for export. We have to turn into an export giant. Today's grain? Okay. But the next step is to produce flour and food. Our IT specialists on the outsors today? Nothing either. But tomorrow we have to make the startups appear throughout the country. Again: export, export. And the only import we're going to allow and help is investment, experience, knowledge and culture. Sounds complicated to me. If you, honourable recruits, support the President's proposal for my candidacy, then the Ukrainian Diplomatic Service, as we say, will take it all to an unabated conclusion. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u288	Thank you, Vadim Vladimirovich. Let's move on to the question, please sign up from the MP factions. Any questions? Okay, questions. Klimpush-Cincadze, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u289	Dear Mr. Vadim, you're a well-known professional diplomat, and I'd like to ask you two questions. You know how important it is to call things your names and use that terminology that clearly means all the important things. And if Russia is an aggressor, it's important that the state's senior leaders call the Russian Federation an aggressor. The Prime Minister said you'd call black black and white and white. That's my question. In what way are you going to preserve that coalition of states in support of Ukraine if neither Ukrainian diplomacy nor Ukrainian leaders call Russia an aggressor and continue to fight for territorial integrity, the restoration of Ukraine's sovereignty and independence without a clear definition of our position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u290	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u291	I'm sorry, you said two questions. As far as this is concerned. I understand. As far as I'm concerned, I think we've all lost 14,000 lives to our Ukrainians, we've lost 7 percent of our territory, we've lost 20 percent of our industrial potential, we know who's responsible, we're Russian, we're an aggressor. At the same time, we need to understand that not only do we say this, but we need our partners to talk about it, this is the task of diplomatic service.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u292	The Gethmans, the "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u293	Thank you very much for your position on supporting a foreign producer in foreign markets. This is really what we did not have and what we should have. And I want to give the word to Sergei Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u294	Sergey Babak, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u295	Thank you. Mr. Wadim, thank you for your statement. Apparently, the faction of the "Serial of the People" Party will support you. But I have a personal question, you've talked a lot about exports, and I'm particularly interested in exporting our educational services. Foreign students, we have this situation that foreign students often can't get to Ukraine or they seem very expensive because there are problems in our diplomatic representations, there's just corruption and students often don't get to Ukraine. Are you aware of this problem, and if you please answer, how will you try to solve it?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u296	Thank you. One word about the support of a national producer, one more word, I came myself to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and it was a long time ago. And I stand for the idea of creating a joint ministry that will have in its hands a full instrument, political and economic, to advance our interests. [[Applause]] As far as export of educational services is concerned. I know what you're talking about, there are countries with migration risks, I was a consul myself, there were no big problems in that country. But there are problems in countries where some of the people who pretend to be students leave, and this is unfortunately a serious migration risk. I basically understand what we're doing. To that end, we've put in place electronic visas for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs recently, which allows us to make decisions quickly, without holding back the student flow, but at the same time still controlling who's coming to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u297	Thank you. Olga Belkova, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u298	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mr. future minister, you mentioned professionalism today, I think everyone in your report today has found out how much you are a professional in your business. We have no doubt about your professionalism. At the same time, diplomacy is changing, and you said pragmatism. I would like to remind you that the diplomats are also parliamentarians. There are delegations, there are groups of friendships, but they only work when there is cooperation with your ministry in the future. Tell me, how do you plan to change it, to make us worthy diplomats of your country, along with you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u299	Thank you very much. In my speech, I mentioned a parliamentary delegation working earlier in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I understood the importance of this instrument and had it. If possible, I participated in all the meetings you had, and so did we, in order for the delegation, the Ukrainian delegation and the parliamentary delegation to have the opportunity to work abroad. I fully agree with you, the work of our parliamentary delegations in parliamentary assemblies is often far more effective than diplomatic. You have a direct opportunity to speak to the legislators of other states for which we are actually hired officials. I'm going to support this path in the future and encourage you all to interact with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u300	Thank you. Igor Goose.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u301	Thank you. Mr. Wadim, you and I have worked closely with our Committee on Foreign Affairs in the past, where I had to serve as a deputy. I want to point out and point out that you are a professional, decent, principled and pro-European person. But, you know, I've repeatedly raised a question that I want to hear from the President of Ukraine. Over the past five years, we have had cases where a year, two, three, four years have not been appointed ambassadors. Hungary, Kazakhstan, Great Britain, Sweden, Ukraine's NATO representation, had no representatives for 2-3 years. For all my attempts to ask a representative of the Presidential Administration, why we don't have an ambassador in one country or another, everyone lifted their head or put it down. I'd like to choose you to have a month, two, three ambassadors in any state, in any institution appointed as clockwork, that's the technical question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u302	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u303	Thank you. I don't think we need an answer, we really haven't talked to you about this once. The only thing that's interesting and important is that you've probably coordinated your presidency to the President, who's starting every day our conversation about why there's not yet an appointed ambassador in this country or an ambassador in this country. Often this is a technical problem, you know, a country permit is needed. Sometimes we have to look for a long time for such a country to accept to prevent a scandal. But I agree with you, we cannot leave our embassies without guidance. And that's not going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u304	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u305	Oleg Vlasin, if possible, pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u306	Pass the hair on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u307	Vadim Volodymyrovich, I think we all remember the culmination of the debates of Vladimir Alexander Zelensky with the previous President when he said to the famous man, "I'm not your opponent, I'm your verdict." This verdict was handed down by three quarters of Ukraine’s voters, including a sentence in a failed previous foreign policy course. That's why the course that took us as far away from peace as possible is the course that got us into trouble. Or have frozen relations with many of our neighbours who have frozen relations with great nations like China and India, Brazil, instead of one another, a great nation has developed relations in a way that the famous embassy on Tankay Street has become another administration of the President. I've known you personally for many years, you weren't just an opponent in this course, you were one of the leaders of this course. Do you think that today you have a mandate to continue this course, and if you don't, in principle what your external policy line is, that you will advise the President, who is not so experienced in these matters, will be different from your course.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u308	Let me finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u309	Thank you. A former honorary colleague, indeed as a diplomat, as part of our diplomatic corps, you are well aware of the complexity of making foreign policy decisions that are primarily involved in the MP Corps, the President, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is only following all the instructions that you, colleagues, have to make. I just want to tell you that I don't believe the Ukrainian people voted that way because they didn't like the foreign policy course. There are many other reasons among them today: tariffs, economics. Development. All these reasons must have become necessary for people to vote. I can say that I am proud of the course that led us to where we are and our friends and partners. But at the same time, I agree with you that we have no right to allow ourselves to lose any connection, no contact in the world. This is a fine line between these two processes we're going to build. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u310	Thank you, Vadim Vladimirovich. I'm asking you to go to bed. Please sign up for the speeches by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Sign up for the factions. Irina Fries, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u311	Thank you. Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u312	Turn on Arthur Gerasimov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u313	Dear colleagues, as you know, during the five years of the presidency of Peter Poshenko, his efforts and the efforts of Ukrainian diplomacy that we are proud of have created a powerful world coalition. But in the last 100 days, unfortunately, we've lost the initiative, we've lost the subject. Ukraine is being talked about without Ukraine, unfortunately. And these challenges include the return of Russia to Paris, and the risk of non-response sanctions, and the risk of non-continuation of military technical assistance from our American partners, and the return of Russia to G7. We want a new minister to face these challenges. As non-participants of the coalition, as an opposition faction, we cannot support this assignment, but we want to contribute in every way to the preservation, protection and acceleration of Ukraine's approach to NATO and the EU. And finally, one very simple question. As you know, shipping in the Kerchen Strait has been blocked for several months now. Is there a strategy for the return of Ukrainian shipping to Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u314	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u315	Is there any strategy for the return of Ukrainian shipping and international shipping to the Ukrainian Kerchny Strait? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u316	Gregory Nemira, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u317	Thank you. Vadim Volodymyrovich, on behalf of the Fatherland faction, I want to thank you for the very informative, meaningful meeting you, as future minister, have with our faction. I hope this is an example for other members of the new Cabinet of Ministers. And I also hope that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in your person will respond positively to the invitation of the Committee of Foreign Affairs to a meaningful discussion. You mentioned the fourth "p" is pragmatism. I think the synonym is realism. The reality of foreign policy is that. understanding that foreign policy begins at home. I think it's very wise of you to stress the need to strengthen the humanitarian component of our policy on Donbas. And in that sense, the President also made initiatives that the Fatherland faction supports. We're also satisfied with the creative approach to expanding the Normandy format, hopefully that's the approach and cooperation with ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u318	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u319	And that's why, believing in your professional background, the experience that we respect, we support the President's initiative. The Fatherland faction supports your candidacy as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u320	Thank you very much, colleagues. Constanceevich Irina, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u321	Irina Konstankevich, Volin, 23rd constituency. Mr. Wadim, I want to thank you first for your statement, and I want to express our shared faith that you will be able to implement the stated goals and your vision of foreign economic policy. My question is what is your vision of one of the problems that was not realized by the previous authorities, especially the memorial house of the Forest of Ukraine, which is in Georgia, in the town of Surami. It destroys, it destroys in the eyes of our contemporaries. And while the Georgian authorities have found the funds and allocated the budget to repair this memorial house, the Ukrainian authorities have not been able to find solutions to the problem. So the question. Your steps in solving this question are what.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u322	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u323	I believe that Lesia Ukraine, on the eve of her Jubilee in 2021, is a matter of Ukrainian prestige. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u324	The "Serial of the People" faction, Yuri Camelchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u325	Good afternoon! Vadim Volodymyrovich, of course, as a party representative. factions, excuse me, "Serve of the people," I will support your candidacy. And I would like to draw your attention to the next moment. What we, apart from the war in the East, lose another war is called, in my opinion, "the war of capital migration", and the main capital of Ukraine is Ukraine, the labor force. I believe very much that we are all in cooperation with you for the idea not only of our President Vladimir Zelensky, but we are working on coming to Ukraine, in fact, and not leaving at the earliest possible time hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands and millions of Ukrainians, because there are 60 million of us in the world, we have enormous potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u326	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the factions of the opposition platform for life have failed to register. Please give Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u327	Dear Mr. President! Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. President! We have made it clear that we are an opposition political force, so, based on this principle, we do not support any candidate proposed by any of the authorities, nor do we take responsibility for the actions of the relevant minister or other official. Of course, we are concerned today that the path to Europe, the way to NATO, is far away, and from today's realities, you know, can be impossible. Today we have to assume that Ukrainians should be happy and better to live today. And we're glad that you've understood the problems both on tariffs and the main question is peace. Unfortunately, on the issue of peace, we have not heard the clear strategy of yours. On this point, we are your partners, and we will cooperate regardless of what we have determined in our opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u328	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose we move on to a decision. I would like to vote on the draft Decree (Registration Number 1024) on the appointment of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Vadim Volodymyrovich. People's deputies, please vote and support. [[19:09:23]] For 310 Thank you, the decision is made. [[Applause]] 310 versus 0, held up 49. Hello, Minister. Please take your place in the government's bed. Dear colleagues, we have the address of National Deputy Nagorniak: "Please count my vote in favour" of questions 17, 18, 19, namely, the procedure for considering the appointment of Potter to the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine for the draft Decision on the appointment of the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine (1022) as a basis and as a whole and for the draft Order on the appointment of the Mayor of the Defence of Ukraine (No1023) as a basis and as a whole. For unknown reasons, the pros button didn't work. Thank you. Let's move on to another issue of the agenda. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the report of the Preparatory MP Group. The report of the Preparatory MP is given to you. In accordance with the Rules, the decision is not taken on this issue, but the report is taken into account. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, the draft Decision on the release of Gretzak from office of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. In accordance with article 106, paragraph 14, Constitutions of Ukraine. I'm filing (this is an application by the President of Ukraine) for the release of Vasil Gretzak from office of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Presents this submission at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Stefanchuk. About the release of Gretzak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u329	Ladies and gentlemen, with your permission under article 106, paragraph 14, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine has submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for the release of Gretzak Vasil Sergiyyovich from the post of Head of the Security Service of Ukraine. Please support this submission.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u330	Please support and vote. [[19:12:08]] For 333 Thank you. Decision taken. 333 is in, 1 is in, 0 is in. Honorable National Deputies, the question of the appointment of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. According to article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to appoint the President of Ukraine as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. The President of Ukraine pursuant to paragraph 14 of the first article. Part one of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine was introduced to the Supreme Council. The right materials are given to you. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to the floor. Ruslan Alexiovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u331	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, in accordance with article 106, paragraph 14, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine was introduced to the Supreme Council for the appointment of Mr. Bakanov Ivan Hennadiovich as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Please support this submission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u332	Ladies and gentlemen, the floor for the speech is given to the candidate for the post of Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Bakanov Ivan Hennadijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u333	Mr. President, the honorable presidency, the honourable people's deputies, here have been offered to the turbines, so perhaps immediately the question is, will it be quicker? [[Applause]] In fact, the work of the Ukrainian Security Service is very simple. We must ensure a fair distribution of the basic social benefits, the rule of law and justice. How can you do that? It's very simple to do that. To do this, we must all live by the law and principles. It's not understanding, it's principles. To that end, we must all reform, including the Ukrainian Security Service. [[Applause]] It is only when the authorities have the courage to go against themselves for the sake of human rights and fundamental freedoms. What must we do about it? Excuse me, please. To do this, all of us must reform together. What do I mean by reforming the Ukrainian Security Service? It's actually very simple, too. This is when a fellow Ukrainian security officer meets a simple person and smiles at him in reply. Because it feels safe and secure. But more than that, if she wants to help such a fellow Ukrainian security officer, that's reform. In addition, all of us demand demilitarization. Our international partners first. It's not a requirement for us, it's a dream for us. Because if we demilitarize, it means only one thing: There is peace in our country. Of course, there is much that we need to do, including the Ukrainian Security Service, which will need your help. We will need to adopt a new Ukrainian Security Service Act. A law that removes destructive competition between law enforcement agencies. And I very much hope that after the adoption of this law, the service will work with renewed force. We need to become technological, fast, powerful, but small. I look forward to your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u334	Thank you, Ivan Hennadiovich. Question from factions. Please sign up. Lesya Vasilko, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u335	Yes, I give the word to Roman Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u336	Please turn on Roman Kostenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u337	Thank you. Ivan Hennadiovich, what is your strategic view of the development of the BSS? Do you see the need for a stay in law enforcement or, on the contrary, for a clean special service with a clear separation of powers of special services and law enforcement? And in that case, how do you plan to strike a balance between the necessary powers and ensuring transparency and accountability to parliament and public society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u338	Thank you for asking. You know, the question is not how you function, but how you use it. And if I'm going to talk specifically about your question, I still think that we should combine it here. Because, for example, if we take an economic function that's not actually in the Security Service, or the anti-corruption function, because by law we have to transfer it to other law enforcement agencies. In principle, in this sense, I think there's a point to combining law enforcement and a special function in the Ukrainian Security Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u339	Thank you. Galina Yanchenko, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u340	Ivan Hennadiovich, first of all, I would like to thank you for a number of really shiny anti-smuggling specials. Secondly, also support your candidacy, because, in my view, it is man from outside the system that can have the courage to reform the Ukrainian Security Service, and this reform has long matured. And the question. What time period do you think this BSS reform is possible?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u341	When it comes to reforming the entire service, I think it takes at least three years. When it comes to effective first steps, I think one year is enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u342	Thank you. Maria Ionova, "European Solidarity" faction
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u343	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u344	You pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u345	Thank you. According to our international obligations, we must adopt a new Law on the Ukrainian Security Service. And when is such a bill expected to be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Will it be soon, or will it meet the standards of NATO countries?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u346	In fact, such a law has already been drafted and submitted to the National Security and Defence Council. He is present in two forms, as our international partners have demanded: one rather detailed edition, and one that points more to the principles of the Ukrainian Security Service. After these laws were drafted in accordance with the Ukrainian National Security Act, new proposals were made by international partners. That is why we believe that we need to redraft those laws and transfer them to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think we'll have a maximum of a month and a half.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u347	Thank you. Ivan Krulko. No, Andrew Cosemyakin, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u348	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Reverend John Hennadiovich. I'd like to ask you what your vision of optimizing the Ukrainian Security Service, which is what so many experts are talking about today, who are really like that, and who are in the paws. I want to ask you about reforming the Special Unit to combat organized crime and corruption. Because today there has been mention of success in smuggling. And you know, the only structure we have today that's struggling with the international drug business, and it has global experience, and it's using respect, is the K General Authority. I'm asking you to protect the "K" General Directorate in terms of people, officers, honest, decent, they'll stay in the service. And I say again that I am proud to have headed this unit in my own time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u349	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u350	Thank you so much for asking. I want to say that, in principle, we've analyzed the functions of other special services that are represented in the world today, and most of the special services in the world have this function. So they have the anti-corruption function and the anti-economic crime function. I want to say that today any corruption is, in principle, related to money and the economy. Because today, bribes are basically not passed on by anyone in suitcases or bags. So without these functions, in principle, it's going to be very hard to face these challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u351	Thank you, Ivan Hennadiovich. I'm asking you to take a seat in the bed. And I'd like you to sign up for the factions. Andrew Kozemyakin, faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u352	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Well, first of all, I'd like to, anyway, before we vote for the new Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, thank the army's predecessor, Gretzak Vasile, and also Valentine Navejchenka, who is sitting next to us here, for not giving us the opportunity, first of all, to break up the service and strengthen its counter-intelligence component, to strengthen the Agency's operational warehouse, which has enabled us to carry out a lot of special operations in the ATO and POS. Our faction supported the decision to support Mr. Bakanov's candidacy. And we hope that it will continue its path towards reforming the Ukrainian Security Service under NATO and European special services standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u353	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u354	The parliamentary group "For the Future" will support Mr. Ivan Bakanov's candidacy for the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. We want these words that we have heard from the challenger to be effectively implemented so that the Ukrainian Security Service is effectively reformed, not just in words, as we have repeatedly observed that all the schemes, all the equipment, all the cracking that is now in the old Ukrainian Security Service remain in the past. And I find the nice words of John Bakanov, when I said that when the authorities go against themselves, God grant that reform, they say, ends exclusively with effect for the new Ukrainian Security Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u355	Thank you. Solomy Anatolyevna, the Voice faction, please turn on the microphone. Samantha Bobrowski, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u356	Thank you. First, I'd like to be proud of the Security Service at last, not ashamed of it, but, secondly, is it my request, inter alia, to be inspired by Resting, still actively involved in the work and in overseeing the territorial integrity of security in the smuggling, once, of working with, what is called, the Transnistrian Republic of Moldova, two, and, thirdly, it is if someone would have explained to us, after all, the return of meters of the border column towards Judjulesta to Moldova and our transfer of land belonging to the Republic of Moldova when we are going to the Besarabian part of the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u357	Thank you. Irina Fries. Excuse me, Fries Igor faction "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u358	Good afternoon. Please give Alexander Dubin a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u359	Give the word to Alexander Dubin. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u360	Good afternoon, Mr. President, Mr. Bakanov, dear colleagues! I understand that any head of any task force wants to leave behind the functions of controlling organized crime and smuggling and corruption and fighting it. But we know that a new financial investigation service will be created in a country that has to combine the functions of operational units both the IMF and the BSS and the Tax Police. And I think that this "K" chapter, which became the ostrich department during the time of the former headmaster of the BSB, should be reviewed by its authority and staffing, because there are still people working there who associate with the crackdown of business. And that's a very important question, so I want to draw your attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u361	Thank you. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u362	Thank you. Please pass the word to Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u363	Pass the word to Schuffritch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u364	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, surely, the reforms of the Ukrainian Security Service are necessary, both outside Ukraine and Ukraine. But Ukrainians expect another to happen more quickly. They expect the Ukrainian Security Service to cease to be a tool for enriching the presidents. And the Ukrainians have seen it once before, and started it in their favorite show, "Serve of the People." I hope the Ukrainians will see it after your appointment. That's what I wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u365	Thank you. Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u366	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u367	Alexei Hotcharenko from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u368	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, north of Clothing, European Solidarity. Dear Ukrainian citizens, I would like to recall once again from this rostrum the pre-election program of the President of Greens: the basis for the appointment will be intelligence, education, talent and conscience, not the fact that children were baptized together. What are the merits of Mr. Bakanov? This is a well-known intelligence officer, this is a combat officer who fought for Ukraine? No, it's not. This is a neighbor of Vladimir Alexanderovich's since he was a child, and this is the director general of Quarter 95. Excuse me, who are we now choosing, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service or the head of the 95th Quarter Security Service? We've been told that there's been an age of cumulation, and what, the wedding era began, with whom were they filming "The Weddings" together? Is the neighborhood age a good neighbor? The good question, and as far as I'm concerned, the answer is obvious. And there's more. I want to thank the battle officer, the General, the Hero of Ukraine, Vasil Gretzaku, for how he worked and gave his life, in fact, risked his life for Ukraine. I saw him under Debalts in February 2015, and I think I have the privilege of being acquainted with him. This is the real head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian Security Service! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u369	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the draft Decree (registration number 1021) on the appointment of the head of the Bakanov Security Service, John Hennadiovich. People's deputies, please vote and support. [[19:29:48]] For 319 Thank you, the decision is made. 319, in favour, against 26, held – 22. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we have technicals. It's a technical problem. There's a request for a 15-minute recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u370	Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the hall and take your seats. Let's get started. Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u371	Respectable national MPs, requests. Ladies and gentlemen, please enter the hall, take your seats, insert your cards, return your cards, and we will move on to the following questions. Dear colleagues, before you enter the hall, I'm bringing you some other information. Statements were received from the National Deputies regarding the counting of votes. From the Striharsky People's Department: "Please count my vote for" in support of Bhakanov's Head. The button didn't work." The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Razumkov from Klocka: "Please count my vote in favour", namely the procedure for appointing Honcharuk as Prime Minister of Ukraine, the draft Ordinance on the appointment of Honcharuk as Prime Minister of Ukraine on the basis and overall. For unknown reasons, the button didn't work." "Please consider my voice 'yes.'" - from the people's deputy of Marikowski - "as a vote in favour of the vote on draft Order No.1022 on the appointment of the Prime Minister." To the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Netherlands: "On the question of the appointment of the Goncharuk as Prime Minister of Ukraine, he voted in favour." Please count my voice, the button didn't work." Thank you. This information is accepted. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u372	Dear colleagues, we're starting our work. Please take your seats. Let's start with the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Honourable National Deputies, the question of the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is being considered by the Supreme Council in accordance with part eight of article 83, part one of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Colleagues, please take your seats. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Goncharuk Aleksei Valeriyovich, brought to the Supreme Council a submission concerning the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution and the Law of Ukraine on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The next procedure for consideration is proposed. Give the Prime Minister of Ukraine up to 10 minutes to represent the candidates for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Alexei Valeriyovich, will you have enough time? Wait, wait. Wait, me. To speak from the MP factions in the discussion take up to 15 minutes. I'll give you nine minutes to speak to the National Deputies. If there's no objection, please. If there is no objection, let us move on to the question. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Goncharuk Aleksei Valeriyovich, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u373	Dear National Deputies! We have been approached by a faction of national deputies, a deputy faction in the Supreme Council, which includes most of the Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has the right to coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, provided for by 83 articles of the Constitution. According to part eight of article 83 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, a coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes proposals for candidates for the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm going to read these actually proposals from the faction, and they actually correspond to what I want to sound to you. In view of this appeal, I propose to appoint Kolebu Dmitry Ivanovich as Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine for European and Euro-Atlantic integration. [[Applause]] This is an experienced diplomat, a man who defends Ukraine's interests in the international arena, especially in the Council of Europe. Fedorov Mikhail Albertovich is Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Digital Transformation. It's an Aitishman, an entrepreneur, one of the leaders, actually, there's a political party and I think it's factions in Parliament right now. A young, progressive, experienced man. Dubilet Dmitry Aleksandrovitch as Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine [[Applause]] The person who created Monobank, who spent much of her time after Maidan, dedicated IGO initiative and digitized services. It's an incredible experience. I very much hope that he will be of use to us in the work of the Cabinet of Ministers. Milovanov Timothy Sergiyovich is the minister of economic, commercial and agricultural development. [[Applause]] Professor, president of the Kyiv School of Economics, an experienced macro-economyist. Denis Leontijovich is a young man who serves as the minister of justice of Ukraine. [[Applause]] An experienced lawyer, expert at the World Bank Group. Markar Oksana Sergiyyevna, Minister of Finance of Ukraine [[Applause]] A person who has been looking after Ukraine’s finances in recent years, and in fact, it has caused a great deal of right-wing activity in this area. Orjela Alexi Anatoliyovich, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine [[Applause]] A person who has given energy for more than 15 years is very well aware of these issues. Vladislav Arturovich as Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine. [[Applause]] The person who has in recent years turned well-known to us the DAI and all these MREOs into modern service centers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Babak Alona Valeriyovna as Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine [[Applause]] A person who has given much of his life to the development of local self - government is very well understood in the realm of the LAG. Novosad Hanna Igorovna, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine [[Applause]] The man who came from Europe after Maidan to reform the Ministry of Education was still working there. Skalecka Zoryan Stepanovna is the Ukrainian minister of health. [[Applause]] An experienced person, if I'm not mistaken, a professor at the Kyiv-Magilian Academy, a person who is very well versed in medical matters. Borodian Vladimir Volodymyrovich is the minister of culture, youth and port. [[Applause]] An experienced media manager. I very much hope that your experience, Mr. Volodymyr, will be of use to us. Sokolovsky Yulia Sergiyovna, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine [[Applause]] The director of the government, the Department of Strategic Planning of the Cabinet of Ministers, was also very well aware of social issues. Avakova Arsena Borisovich serves as Minister of Interior of Ukraine. [[Applause]] The person who has made a huge contribution to keep Ukraine at least in the borders that it is now, and now embraces this position. College of Oksana Alexandrovna to serve as minister for veterans, temporarily occupied territories and internally displaced persons of Ukraine. Please support this command. I believe that this team can significantly improve the lives of people in Ukraine. Thank you. I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u374	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up for a statement from the MPs. Sit down, sit down. Thank you, Alexei Valeriovich. Nestor Ivanovich Schufric, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u375	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished nominees and candidates for office in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine! Of course, the way you work today depends on the direct and direct lives of our citizens. We are opposition, but the principle of "the worse for power and the worse for people, the better for opposition" is not our principle. We've repeatedly stated that we want "Ze!Commands," to whom she trusts, success, because your success is the success of the country. By assigning people today, some of us know, and frankly, they were even pleasantly surprised that they, on the one hand, kept or maintained their positions. We will be partners to improve the lives of our people. But we will be harsh critics in those actions or omissions that we think will make life in our country worse. We will offer our alternative solutions and will be open to discussion. Today, despite certain sentiments, we cannot afford to violate the basic principle of opposition: not to interfere with human resources policy. But we want a new power, because right now, power is being chosen, real power in our country, on which I will, once again, depend on the lives of our citizens. We wish you success because your success is the success of the Ukrainians, the success of our country. For our part, we will object to where we may need our support, our support, and our support. We know very well what voting is in the Council. We know very well what speculation is about voting. And what will benefit people, we will always support. But we will criticise where we feel that you are wrong, that our citizens will not be wrong, and that their hope, which dominates society today, will be realized. Happy birthday, good luck! We want to believe that it's coming true.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u376	Thank you. Fries Igor Pavlovich, Political Party "Serial of the People," faction "Serial of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u377	Good evening again, everyone. It says here that Alexander Dubinsky has a very beautiful Ukrainian language. I'd like to give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u378	Please give Alexander Dubin a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u379	Good evening again, Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary-General. First of all, I want to point out that the possibility of becoming ministers in this government is first of all the confidence in the President of Ukraine, Mr. Zelensky, and his team. And this opportunity, I think, should be for you, and this respect, and this trust, should be decisive for you in your work. And for me, the issue of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics, which has become a very big ministry at all, and it's very important. I believe that Mr. Milovanov has received a very large loan of trust because we have long known him. And I think it's important to stress that the Ministry of Economics programme, which will now be responsible for either the agrarian sector, should be presented for discussion, because this ministry will be one of the most important milestones that will be creating a gross product in Ukraine. Because this ministry will or will not allow investment to flow into the country, to create new jobs and, above all, to enable Ukrainians to find their future in their own country and not to go abroad. Mrs. Markarova and I have long known each other. I think cooperation will be fruitful. And in cooperation with Mr. Milovanov, I look forward to it, and I think my colleagues support me for a program that we can work together to implement and control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u380	Thank you, Alexander. Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u381	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor Chairman, I would like to welcome many of the people we know have worked in various positions in the previous government. These are professional people, and it's important for us to see these faces on the new team. I would like to point out personally that I am very pleased that you have decided to retain the position of Vice Prime Minister on matters of European and Euro-Atlantic integration. But unfortunately, at the same time we haven't seen, we haven't been presented with any programs of action of the new government, nor have we been able to get to know every minister about how he or she is going to run its field. We don't vote for names today. We should vote in favour of the action programme. And it is not clear to us whether decentralization reform will continue, whether health reform will continue, whether education reform will continue, or whether other directions that have been initiated and supported by our foreign partners will continue. We regret that you have decided to unite the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Ecology. Because, to me, we're risking losing our focus on the issue of environmental security, which is an important issue of climate change. And we see how important it is to the world now, and to us, the management of all natural resources. Nor do we agree with your decision to abolish the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. If the ruling party proposes to adopt land reform and has such an ambition, without a professional proposal, a policy designed in this area by a single ministry, we think it will be impossible to deal with this problem. So without understanding what concrete steps will be taken and what every minister’s vision of their further development will be, we will not vote in favour of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u382	Thank you. Alexander Yuriyovna Ustinova, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u383	Thank you. I give the word to Sergey Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u384	Surrender the word to Sergey Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u385	Dear colleagues, there is such a well - known parable of the three blind and the elephant. Three people who were visually impaired or could not see at all were given the opportunity to lubricate parts of the body of a huge creature and then tell them what they were up to. And the image they foretold certainly did not match the image of the animal itself. Sorry for the analogy, we certainly weren't blind, but we were trying to sell such an elephant in the form of a government. We were given separate parts, but it's definitely not a living thing. I'll explain. The people we see as government are completely different people, they're part of one big creature. There are people you have absolute confidence in who want to support both the word and the deed and the bill, and there are people whose information is much less than their questions. And instead, there are people who have information to hell, and that's why there are even more questions. There's fresh and rotten, there's old and new. There's just a bunch of people who are very hard to find a common denominator, it's very hard to find the principles that these people have chosen. And it's very difficult to understand what is the list of top-notch bills, what is the list of priorities for reform, what is the principle of what these people are doing. And so it's extremely difficult to vote for these people as a government even though there's a huge, once again, respect for individual candidates for the next government. And one more thing. By justifying such an approach only with good intentions, we can remember how many terrible things have happened in the form of good intentions. Finally, in this regard, I would like to address the head of state. There's this very useful book called the Constitution, there's a whole bunch of helpful things. In particular, the 6th, 19th articles read. It defines the distribution of spheres of influence and boundaries that no official can go beyond and no person in Ukraine at all. So to threaten the Supreme Council with fornication is, to put it mildly, not fair, but, frankly, unconstitutional. Because a comprehensive list of these powers is formulated by an appropriate article of the Constitution, not by your wishes. And finally. The government doesn't form outside. And it's so presumptuous to show everyone what's going on, it's a little wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u386	Thank you. Kisse Anton Ivanovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u387	Dear colleagues, Mr. President, Prime Minister of Ukraine, our parliamentary group supports the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers, I am grateful to my group. I have a specific question that needs to be addressed immediately to Mr. Milovanov, Minister of Economics. Today there are 20,000 people working in the Restroom, and I'm paying attention to 20,000 people on the vineyards. There's no way today the wineries are broken, all the wine points are loaded with wine, so today the cleaning is on the verge of a breakup. I'm asking very quickly for someone to intervene immediately. I request the Minister to give appropriate authority to assist the Odessa region, and not only the Odessa region, in addressing this important issue. I think that if we go back to those documents that have been drafted by the previous Cabinet of Ministers, we can examine and make fateful decisions that resolve the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u388	Thank you, colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a statement by the National Deputies. Oksana Vasilovna's owl, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u389	I welcome today all colleagues and colleagues of future ministers, the only thing I would like to say is as a major deputy in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. I hope that the new Prime Minister and ministers voted today by the Council, and I think they will vote and everything will be fine, first of all, when the previous drafts are already under consideration, they have taken into account the problems that the local self-government currently has, namely educational and medical subsidies. You know that the city councils are now massively financing those areas that should be funded by the state budget. Over the past year, 302 million dollars of Ivano-Franksky's own money has spent on the financing of wages. I hope that this new government will do its utmost to ensure that the city's development budget is directed towards the development of its cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u390	Thank you. Sumar Victoria Petrovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u391	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues! This is my second call, the first time I've been to Parliament since the Dignity Revolution. I remember Majdan very well when we talked about the need to change the Constitution on the stage of Maidan. And these memories are now in vain because, you know, Midan happened because one political figure wanted to usurp power in the country. And then it was decided that the Constitution, which envisions the possibility of such an autonomous government, does not work in Ukraine, it leads to revolutions that Ukraine needs a parliamentary model. And here's the question today: Is the parliamentary model now in place? Of course, I welcome my colleagues to receive such a convincing majority in the Supreme Council of the Ninth Call. But it seems to me that when this government was appointed, it was not the role of the MPs, at least most of the deputies, unfortunately, didn't know the names of the ministers, literally, until the moment they were represented, I'm not talking about the program of activity anymore. It's not just a document, it's your duty, it's your honorable future ministers, it's your duty to Ukrainian society. These are your declarations that you're going to do directly. Because we're going to evaluate you by the results, and these results were going to be clearly measured. Because talking about significant improvements is good, of course, thesis, but they would have to be spoken in specific numbers, and these numbers would have to be heard in the same way. I want to understand today's future for the government, however, that Parliament has a mandate of trust for the Ukrainian people, and it works for the interests of the Ukrainian people. And only in the interaction between Parliament and the government can constructive cooperation work for the benefit of all Ukrainians. You had a great slogan, "We're different, but we're the only ones." Let's work for the future, work constructively, work in dialogue. Not when, sorry, the opposition is sitting on the gallery because we've been locked up here, and we can't actually approach the rostrum. We need not fear opposition, we must work with opposition, we are ready for such constructive cooperation. And work primarily on quality laws, because today we have speed above quality. We do not have the opportunity to listen to every minister, their programs, their promises, and this is the basis of parliamentaryism in Ukraine. Let us not destroy Ukrainian parliamentaryism, for it has always been a huge victory for Ukraine, and this has been different from Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u392	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that all political parties and factions, as well as self-governance, have agreed to the placement in the Supreme Council Hall that we are seeing with you today. So let's be honest. Frez Irina Vasilovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u393	Thank you. First of all, I wanted to thank Mr. President for making a political statement a week ago that the Department of Veterans would remain valid in the new government. This was a very good message for the entire veteran community. The second thing you've done is you've offered the veterans a run for office. And they were determined. And thank you again for that. Because it was Oksana Kolada who was a member of our team, a member of the veteran community, who was supported and introduced by the Prime Minister to the post of Minister for Veterans. And now for the bad. You said at the international forum that the Ministry of Veterans would be preserved. At that time, there was no mention that the Ministry of Veterans would unite with the Ministry of Temporary Occupied Territories. It's an unacceptable thing. And instead of the trust you received a week ago from the veteran community, you can get a completely different reaction, and you already have it, and you know about it. Veterans do not support unity. As First Minister for Veterans, I don't support this union because it's very different things, because the Ministry of Veterans has a completely different mission and mission than the Ministry of Temporary occupied territories. I urge you today to adopt another political decision and leave the Ministry of Veterans alone, rather than connecting them to the Ministry of Temporary Occupied Territories, because this will actually lead to the leveling of veterans. As impossible as it may seem right now, that's what's going to happen. Veterans cannot be combined because there must be a completely different policy of the state as opposed to that of the citizens who are now in temporary occupied territories. I urge you to follow the word you gave to the veterans and keep the Ministry of Veterans on your own, without unification. Thank you very much, I hope for your political will now, in the House of Parliament, as well as in the International Forum of Veterans, where they applauded you for saving the Ministry. Stick to that word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u394	Thank you. Let's finish the discussion, let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] You insist, Nestor Ivanovich? Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich, faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u395	Thank you, Reverend Head of the Supreme Council. Please pass the word to the Royal Natalia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u396	Dear future members of the government! Today, each of you will begin to decide the future fate of our country. And after the Groysman government destroyed health care, education, pensioners, social protection in our country, transforming reforms simply into experiments on human beings, robbing people with tariffs, making money in war. We are addressing you, please exercise political will, protect people today, implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. We won the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, however, the past authorities have failed to make decisions about the Chernobylites, about the veterans of the Great Homeland War, about the settlers. Consider the anticonstitutional reforms of health care, pension reform, and educational reform. We ask you to protect the citizens of Ukraine, the settlers. Because the past authorities created ministries, but unfortunately they didn't do anything to get people who believed in their country to come and support them and protect them, they even deprived them of their right to vote. Please support people who live near the front line every day. Because no child who had received the status of a child who had suffered from war had ever received any social protection. And certainly to support today's pensioners, people who have survived the last five years of a meager pension -- $50 -- and that's bullying, bullying dozens. over 10 million pensioners living in our country. Today, the country still lives on the budget created by the Dust team. And we're asking you to review this budget urgently, to clean up all the corruption components and this money today, to send people to support people, to raise pensions, to lower tariffs, to give people a real modern standard of living, and for that there is little money in our country today, but there's not enough money in our country, but it's for people to believe, to believe that the past is behind, that in front of us is an opportunity to build a strong and prosperous Ukraine, Ukraine, in which man will be first. And we wish you success in this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u397	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I remind you that the decision to appoint members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is taken by the Supreme Council by an open vote for the list proposed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Candidates to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are considered elected if more than half of the national deputies have voted in favour of this decision than the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 85, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, honourable national MPs are asked to vote on the nomination of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for a list proposed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Form a decision according to the outcome of the vote. Please support and vote. Who's in? [[20:57:37]] For 281 [[Applause]] 281 in, 26 in, 45 in. Decision taken. Congratulations. Show the factions, please. Thank you all, everyone, welcome to the new government of Ukraine. Dear newly elected ministers, I ask you to take your seats in the government's bed. Dear colleagues, I propose we continue our work. Honourable National Deputies, according to part of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, when submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration of the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of persons who are national deputies of Ukraine, are added to the submission of a personal statement by the Ukrainian National Deputy on the permanent composition of parliamentary powers. In case of appointment as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine The newly appointed members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine submitted such applications to the Supreme Council. The question of the composition of Ukrainian MPs is addressed immediately after his appointment as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the same meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Statements were received from the national deputies of Ukraine. In particular: Fedorova Mikhail Albertovich, Novosad Hanni Igorovna, Criklija Vladislav Arturovich, Orgel Alexi Anatoliyovich, Malyyyamaki Denis Leontijovich. Every single one of them? Okay. Then, according to article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 7, 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ukrainian National Deputy Malejajka Denis Leontijovich wrote an application for his appointment as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In accordance with article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine puts to the vote a motion for a permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. People's deputies, please vote and support. Little Denise Leontijovich. [[21:01:26]] For 347 Thank you. 374, versus 0. 347, I'm sorry. Decision taken. According to article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 7, 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, National Deputy Orgel Alexei Anatoliyovich wrote an application for his appointment as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, of the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, have put to the vote a motion for a permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Please vote and vote. [[21:02:23]] For 352 Decision taken. Against -0, held -0. Thank you. In accordance with article 81, paragraph 1, of the second part of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 7, 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Krikliy Vladislav Arturovich, wrote an application for his appointment as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In accordance with article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine puts to the vote a motion for a permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. Please support and vote. [[21:03:14]] For 353 Thank you. 353, versus -0, held -0. Decision taken. In accordance with article 81, paragraph 1, of the second part of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 7, 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Novosad Hanna Igorovna, has written an application for her to be appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In accordance with article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine put to the vote a motion for a permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, Novosad Hanna Igorovna. Please support and vote. [[21:04:04]] For 355 Thank you. For -355, versus -0, held -0. Decision taken. In accordance with article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, I take the view. In article 7, 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedorov Mikhail Albertovich, wrote an application for his appointment as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In accordance with article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine's Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I put to the vote the proposal to suspend the mandate of Ukrainian National Deputy Fedorov Mikhail Albertovich for a term term. Please support and vote. [[21:05:00]] For 353 Thank you. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u398	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, the members of the Cabinet of Ministers on the day of their appointment shall make an oath before taking office at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the formation of the new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the oath is read by the Prime Minister of Ukraine and signed by each member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The word for reading the text of the oath is given to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Hončaruk Oleksija Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u399	An oath made by a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine I, Honcharuk Alexei Valeriovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and ensuring the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the continued democratic development of society. Signature, today's date.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u400	Hello, Mr. Prime Minister, I welcome the government. I wish you. Yeah, one minute. I want to give you the strength, I want you to do all the tasks that Ukrainian society has given us. And I'm sure we can do it together. Thank you. [[Applause]] The word is given to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexia Honcharuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u401	Yeah, I'm very short. Look, we're set up very constructively. We're willing to talk about finding common right decisions, working, working on a lot of those bills that have already been introduced, and new ones. We will try to involve the government in the preparation of state policies at the earliest possible stage of the MPs. So I'm also asking you to engage. The only thing I'm going to ask is for design. You're talking about what we're presenting to you as a government without a program. In accordance with article 11 of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act, the newly elected government can submit its program within a month to yours. To introduce you. We have to figure it out, look at the real numbers. Of course, you have an idea of what's going on. But in order to plan state policy in all spheres, where there are ministries in separate areas, where they are, where government policy is formed within larger ministries, we need to assess the state of affairs. In the world, there's the right principle, called evaluatd first, which tells us that before you make and propose any decisions, you have to appreciate what's going on right now. So our government's program will be based exactly on evaluation and state of affairs, and to do that, we need to see what's actually going on inside the government with politicians right now. As far as the Departments are concerned. I really like the joke that there's a good Internet in Ukraine, well, not bad at least, because there's no single Internet ministry. I'll tell you that the quality of state policy, the quality of the decisions that our government will offer you, depends primarily on how constructive we are with you and how much we will involve professionals and people, in fact, in what way we approve of these decisions. For my part, I can promise you that we will be as open as possible to the citizens of Ukraine who will be allowed to make decisions, and to the honourable national MPs who represent their interests here. Glory to Ukraine! And let's do it together.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u402	Draft Decision on the release of members of the Cabinet of Ministers. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u403	Turbourites are so hostile. Ladies and gentlemen, you're being brought to your attention by the 1005th Draft Decree. In accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the discharge of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is being submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If so, we suggest that we relieve members of the past Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you and please support. [[Applause]] Names. Groysmana Vladimir Borisovich; Kuba Stepan Ivanovich; Zubka Hennadija Grigorovitch; Kirilenka Vijacheslava Anatolievich; Kistion Vladimir Evsevievich; Klimpus-Cincadze Ivana Orestovna; Rosenka Pavel Valeriyovich; Avakova Arsena Borisovich; Grinevich Lilia Mihailovna; Markar Oksana Sergiyevno; Zhdanova Igora Alexandrovich; Klimkina Pavel Anatoliovich; Nasalika Igoria Stepanovich; Nishuka Evgena Mikolaiovich; Omelana Volodimirovich; Petrenka Pavel Dmitrovič; Poltorak Stefan Timofievich; Rev. Andrija Oleksandra Sergeiovich; Semelača; Semelak Dosslavič Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u404	Dear colleagues, this is about the previous government, we need to release them in order to preserve the procedure. That's why. That's why. This is provided for by legislation, so prescribed by law. If we change, it'll be different. I propose to put to the vote a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 1005 on the dismissal of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please vote and vote. [[21:12:19]] For 372 Thank you, the decision is made. I would like to thank the past government. [[Applause]] And I hope that the new government will show even more efficient work, much more efficient work. Especially those ministers who will work there today from the past government. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. In particular, the Bill, Quantum, and Knowledge Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich. Feder Volodymyrovich, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u405	Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! The preparatory parliamentary group worked on the question of the numerical composition, the list and objects of knowledge of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which need to be approved in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. For your consideration is a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, prepared by the Preparatory Group for the 1003rd time. This draft decree states that the Supreme Council of the Ninth Council has 23 parliamentary committees with a minimum of 5 national deputies and a maximum of 34 deputies. Please support and vote in favour of the draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u406	Thank you, colleagues. I propose to put to the vote an Order on the List, the Quantities and the Objects of Knowledge of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. [[B in m in s a l in]] Give me your word, please turn on the microphone. Give your word to the People's Deputy. Gerasim? Give your word to the People's Deputy Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u407	Thank you, Your Honor. So again, I welcome everyone from our gallery. And the distribution of committees, I think that's an interesting topic, because we're talking a lot about legality here. Thus, article 81 of the Ukrainian Rules states that quotas for the distribution of the positions of committee heads, first deputies, deputies, secretaries are determined in proportion to the number of members of the parliamentary factions. Our faction received four positions, with 27 members who clearly did not comply with this rule, which had been virtually ruined and trampled on. We don't care about jobs. We said today that we are in opposition, and obviously the opposition has the right to control functions. Control functions are primarily the Committee on Rules and MPs, this is the Committee on Budget Affairs, this is the Committee on Freedom of Speech. Sadly, freedom of speech was circumcised today, as we can see. I hope that this circumcision of the committee will not mean circumcision of the principle of freedom of speech in Ukraine, because it was due to freedom of speech and because it was the last five years.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u408	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u409	30 seconds, please. This gives us democracy and the democratically elected Ukrainian Parliament. The second thing that's very important, too. You know, we think we want to work on a professionally chosen basis, but that doesn't work very well either. Since the ruling party has imposed restrictions on the number of deputies on committees today with a view to having a majority in each committee. We believe that the approach should be professional and that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u410	Thank you. As for distribution. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u411	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich! I would like to draw your attention to article 84 of the Supreme Council Rules. Part one: "The members of the committee shall be elected by the list of candidates for open voting without discussion, by way of adoption of the Supreme Council Order." The order is given, we act on the first part of article 84 of the Rules – we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u412	Thank you. Then I propose a vote. Colleagues, no discussion, no discussion. Colleagues, only. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, okay, give me a minute, please. Victoria Greeb, give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u413	My colleagues, I think there's been a terrible mistake, because as of yesterday, all the members of the Opposition Block party were distributed by committees. Today, unfortunately, we have found that none of our representatives are on those committees. If so, I applied on August 19. She was accepted as far as I could tell. As early as yesterday, the chairman of the committee had given the information directly to the committee, where the office had already been placed, but today something happened that we were not there. I really want you, Dmitri Alexanderovich, to look at this problem and solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u414	Thank you. Unfortunately, I can't answer you because the MPs didn't make those decisions. Sadly, I saw a distribution yesterday that exceeded the boundaries of the committees. Who will be responsible for this, I think we will find out and find out in the apparatus. The second question. All the deputies who have not been assigned to work on the committee today, their statements will come to the regulatory committee, and he will study and offer the most effective way of using our colleagues' knowledge and professional approaches. I propose, however, that we proceed to the vote in accordance with the Rules. I'll bet you a vote. [[Applause]] Thank you. I'm voting on the bill of lading, the number of compositions and the subject matter of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ninth call. Order number 1003. Please support and vote. [[21:19:57]] For 318 [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I'm going to the Apparatus. I just had a button that didn't work, I'm a hundred percent. I have two witnesses here, so I'm a little relieved. Honorary colleagues, draft Decision on the election of heads, first deputies, head representatives, secretaries, members of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Ladies and gentlemen, the next question is about the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We need to make a decision on the list, the number of compositions and the subjects of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm sorry. About the election. The decision, sorry, about the election. Dear colleagues, the election of committee heads, the first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, and committee members. You have the right draft of your decision. The words for this report are given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u415	Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! You've received the 1077 Order. I pay your attention, it's written "in exchange," because the Supreme Council's apparatus made mistakes among the staff of specific committees. These errors have now been corrected, and the Supreme Council is looking at a replacement project. The project lists, more faithfully, specific names of heads, first deputies, deputies, committee secretaries and members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u416	Colleagues, I'd like to move on. No, it's accepted without discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no discussion here. Arthur Volodymyrovich, you know very well. You know the rules very well. As an intern MP, you know him better than I do. Thus, according to the article. According to articles 82 and 84 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the heads of committees, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries and members of committees are elected on the list as a whole without discussion at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with an open name vote. I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council Decision No. 1077 (in exchange) on the election of committee heads, first deputies, head representatives, secretaries and committee members. To take a decision in general, taking into account the membership of individual deputies in the "For the Future" faction, and with the exception of those national MPs who have delegated authority in connection with the election to the government. Please support and vote. [[21:23:34]] For 299 Thank you. 299, against 36, held – 19. Decision taken. With regard to the issues that we have left open, after the work of the Preparatory MPs, all statements by national MPs that have not been processed will be referred to the Regulatory Committee, I repeat. Thank you for understanding. Let's move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u417	Dear colleagues, since the discussion of the following issues requires appropriate committee decisions, we ask that a 30-minute recess be announced in order to bring together the Committees of Law Enforcement, the Rules - the Regulatory Committee, and the Legal Reform Committee - to make decisions that we will hear on the following issues. There's an offer to support it. And where they are, where the committees will be sitting, I want to pass on the word of Eugenia Kravczuk. Yeah? No, Alexandra, Alexandra Cornienne, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u418	Colleagues, the Committee of Legal Policy, yes, Venedict. Legal policy? I'm just what they're called. The meeting room, 3rd floor at Stefanchuk's reception, is written. Conference room, 3rd floor, legal policy. The scheduled committee is room number 3, 1 on the floor, the sessional part. No, it's not.? Yes, the law enforcement system room is 5 rooms, 3 floors. Finance and economics are the basement, conference room. 5 o'clock, 3 o'clock is a law enforcement system.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u419	Colleagues, I ask the apparatus to invite the national deputies to the hall, and the national deputies to sit in their seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and put your cards in, please. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats! Dear colleagues, I'm calling the Apparatus again. We don't have everyone in the room. Please invite the national MPs. And the heads of the factions, please arrange for the national deputies to arrive at the hall. David Georgievich. Dear colleagues, the bill of approval for the release of Lucenka Yuri Vitaliyovich, President of Ukraine, from the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyyovich Stefanchuk, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on the Law Protection of the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich. [[Applause]] Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u420	Thank you. Reverend Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, in accordance with article 106, paragraph 11, of the third part of article 131, with a prim badge. and sub-paragraph 10 of paragraph 16 with the prim badge. Chapter XV of the Ukrainian Constitution was introduced by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the release of Lucenk Yuri Vitaliyovich from the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. Please support this submission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u421	Thank you, Your Honor, but I propose to give the Attorney General of Ukraine Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka time to report. It's five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u422	Can I have a second? I want to apologize. I understand the rules, I understand the order was in you, but there is such a request, I think everyone will support me. We promised people we'd start working. I think all of these, let's say, programs, when we represent, I go, I represent the Prime Minister, and then the Henprocuror, we don't have time for this. I think we can release the Prime Minister and the new government created, they're holding the first meeting today, they're going to work. Let's give them a round of applause and let the people go.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u423	Let's thank our colleagues. [[Applause]] Thank you, colleagues. Yes, Irina. Yeah. The word is given to Irina Lucenko, Ukraine’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u424	Mr. President, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, honourable colleagues, the legislation is forcing me to conduct a certain procedure because it is related to your vote and our vote today for the removal from office of Attorney General of Ukraine Yuri Lucenka. So, with your permission, I need to conduct this technical procedure. In accordance with part six of article 37 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and in accordance with the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, paragraph 1.3 of article 28, paragraph 1, I declare that the consideration and voting in favour of this issue is a real conflict of my family interests, and therefore I declare that I will not take part in the discussion and vote on the issue of granting permission to discharge as President of the Ukraine of Attorney General Lucenk Jury Vitaliyovich. Thank you for your attention and please understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u425	Thank you, Irina. People are invited to the floor. The Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko, is invited to attend. I take it Yuri Vitaliovich is gone? Colleagues, well, you wouldn't want to waste your time. I invite then the co-rapporteur of the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u426	Mr. President, Honorary President, Honorary Fellows, the Committee on Law Protection has considered the draft decision submitted by the President of Ukraine to grant a discharge by President Lucenka Jurija Vitaliyovich of the post of Attorney-General of Ukraine (registration number 1018) and has approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree authorising the President of Ukraine Lucenka Jurija Vitaliyyovitch of the post of Attorney-General of Ukraine to accept as a basis and as a whole, and to grant consent to the release by the President of Ukraine of Lucenek Jurija Vitaliyovich of the post of Prosecutor-General of Ukraine. I'd like to support you. [[Applause]] Thank you. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u427	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Please tell me, is there a Attorney General? Colleagues, very little time, we still have a lot of work to do, a few hours. However, I propose that we move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u428	What is he? [[B in m in s a l in]] Put it to the vote, then we'll talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u429	Colleagues, I propose then to vote, then to give the word to Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u430	Oh, there's Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u431	I invite you to speak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka. It's five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u432	Dear Mr. President, the honourable chairman, the honourable national deputies! Thank you for the opportunity to step out of this rostrum. Three years and four months ago, I was politically appointed Attorney General of Ukraine. My assignment was very simple and difficult, and it was necessary to destroy the encavede system that had been preserved under the name of the GPU. This could only be done by a man outside the system, or more, by a man who passed both the Ministry, and the prison, and the Midan. I can't say I did it. Today's Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, according to an audit by the Council of Europe, meets European standards. A great deal of what needs to be done is also presented by our European partners. I'm sure the next Attorney General, Mr. Ryabosapka, will be a successful prosecutor and will continue the work that my team has begun. And I also think I can look up to each of you and all of our citizens, because in my 3.5 years, we've reached, along with my colleagues from the IMF and the BSS, the highest levels of anti-corruption, which is our area of responsibility. I'll remind you that the U.S.P. is only engaged in corruption in category B. And here we have 3,000 sentences, not cases not sent to court, but sentences of corrupters. Some 115 billion dollars, including more than 200,000 acres [200,000 ha] of land, were returned to the country. These are the concrete results we've made. Why, then, do people not love the current Henprocuror or the GPU? Because they are awaiting landings of high - ranking criminals who are now working or who have recently worked in high offices. It's not a GPU, it's a National Anti-Corruption Bureau, which over the same three years has zero sentences and actually zero returns to the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I have done all I can. I go with a sense of great pride for my country. And those little things I could do for her will always be there for me. I hope that the next Henprocuror and you, honourable national deputies, will change the legislative field. Without that, any head of the U.S.S. won't be able to respond adequately to the expectations of people on a fair footing. There's actually an impotent NAB with zero convictions in three years. With zero recoveries, it does not allow anyone in the country who has any position to work peacefully. Because people are demanding a change in this situation, and it's only you who can do it. The responsibility of those who shot Midan can only be brought to justice by re-establishing the opposing sentence that was taken from us and passed by the Supreme Council, regardless of six times my troubles on this matter. It's all set. As soon as you vote in favour of an in absentia, in a few weeks the court will begin to consider the role of Yanukovich, Zacharychenka, who is guilty of criminal orders against hundreds of people who have been shot. He will deal with the minister of defense of the Russian Federation and their supporters, who have the appropriate materials, have to be held accountable in Ukraine and then in the International Criminal Court in The Hague. By the way, this also applies to the activation of anti-terrorist cases. Mr. President, I know you're working hard to exchange prisoners. I report that the U.S. Attorney General's Office, along with the U.S.S.A., has 1,100 convicted terrorists who can change battalions. All of ours should be at home. We did everything we could to do that. Also, all I was talking about was in the background of the daily work on 800,000 criminal conducts. And over the years, 2,000 300 murderers have been convicted, 110,000 apartment robbers, 13.5,000 robbers, 6,000 car hijackers, and again, 1200 terrorists. In this background, you understand the complexity of the problems that lie ahead. Continue reforms and give people the law and justice. I did everything I could. I think the next checker deserves support. He has professional knowledge. Because the time of the revolution that I've been doing has passed. He has support and a huge representation in the Supreme Council, and without it it is impossible to move on with the reform of the prosecution. And he has little experience trying to get involved illegally. It's also very important. After NAZK. And this is also very important for the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u433	Let me make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u434	And this little experience of injustice is also very important to the next head of the Civil War. Therefore, Your Honor, we have Ukraine alone. We're doing one job. I urge, in any way, to support the institutions for the benefit of Ukraine. I want to thank everyone I worked with for my 3.5 years. I want to thank my enemies for their criticism, my friends for their support, my faction, and the former majority in the Supreme Council for their cooperation. I wish you success for the benefit of our common country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u435	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. I put to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine order to grant approval for the release by the President of Ukraine of Lucenka Yuri Vitaliyovich of the post of Attorney-General of Ukraine (registration number 1018). Please support and vote. [[23:06:36]] For 317 Thank you, the decision is made. [[Applause]] For -317 versus -0, held -0. Thanks again. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Draft Decision authorising the President of Ukraine Ryabosapka Ruslan Georgievic to serve as Attorney General of Ukraine. Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, rapporteur. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on the Law Protection of the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u436	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In accordance with article 106, part 11, and article 131, part 3, with a prim badge. The Constitutions of Ukraine by the President of Ukraine were submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of Rybosapka Ruslan Georgievovich as Attorney General of Ukraine. Please support this submission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u437	Honorary colleagues, according to articles 85, 106 and 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, are under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to articles 106, 131 of the Ukrainian Constitution, President Vladimir Alexander Zelensky submitted to the Supreme Council on 29 August 2019 a written application for the appointment of Attorney General Ruslan Georgievic. The relevant materials, along with information about the candidate, are given to you. In accordance with the requirements of article 212 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I propose the following procedure. Procurator General's appointment is up to five minutes. The candidate's response to questions from MPs and groups, up to 20 minutes and Ukrainian national deputies, is up to 10 minutes. It's 10 minutes from the MP factions and groups. Talks from the National MPs for up to six minutes. If there's no objection, I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u438	Can't we go any shorter?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u439	We can shorten. The candidate's answer to questions and representatives of the MPs is to cut to 10 minutes, national deputies to 5 minutes. Is there a denial? Ladies and gentlemen, the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to the floor. You won't? Okay. Procurator General Rybosapek Ruslan Alexiyovich is invited to the floor. The candidate's speech is in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u440	Thank you. Ruslan Georgievich. Mr. President, Mr. President, the honourable chairman, the distinguished people's deputies, first of all, I thank you for staying in this session room at this late hour and perhaps supporting me as Attorney General. I'm going to be very concise, and I'm going to say just a few directions that I see as priorities as possible for the next Attorney General. First of all, it's a reboot and a system upgrade. When we met with a presidential candidate along with Vladimir Alexanderovich and the people, when we met with world leaders, representatives of foreign nations, apart from the war, we heard a threefold problem: corruption, the prosecution and the courts. Actually, the courts are not the subject that we're going to discuss today, but corruption and the prosecution can solve this problem. But only because of the upgrades and only because of the reloading. It's the other way. The Office of the Attorney General must become a central body that will implement state policy in the area of crime. The Attorney General’s Office should not argue or conflict with other law enforcement agencies, or set up dissects. The Office of the Attorney General should coordinate other law enforcement agencies, assist them in directing them, prioritizing crime and controlling how these priorities are being implemented. And the third direction. Obviously, the key to public policy is not to detect and punish, to put a criminal in prison, in the fight against crime. The key is to find stolen assets, including through international assistance, to find beneficiaries of these criminal schemes and to return the money stolen from the people and the states, and after that, to the prison. Of course, we cannot forget the resonant things that society has been waiting for for several years, many years. And obviously I can't guarantee today that everyone will be brought to justice, that everyone will get a fair punishment, but I can clearly guarantee that these cases will be one of the key priorities of the work of the Attorney General's Office. Thank you for your attention, ready to answer your questions, and I will no longer spend time on my report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u441	Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you, Ruslan Georgievich. I propose to ask questions from representatives of MPs and groups and national deputies. Deputies and groups, please register in 10 minutes. Cosmiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u442	Good afternoon, Reverend Ruslan Georgievich! I'd like to ask you a short question like that. Now, today we have received information that a registered project to amend the Procuratorial Act No.1032. Well, we don't see the text there yet, but if we can, so strictly, briefly, what major changes will be made to the Procurator's Act. Why? Because in my time, I've been associating with my colleagues for five years with our European colleagues, who agreed to this bill on the Venice Commission and other structures, and it was very difficult, but we did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u443	Thank you, Your Honor Andrey Anatolyovich. Very thorough. In fact, this bill, it is one of the most important for the new Attorney General's Office, because it launches an opportunity to update or reboot the Public Prosecutor's Office. It provides an opportunity to re-test the entire public prosecutor's system, and it provides an opportunity to create a certification commission that, on transparent and understandable criteria, will assess, select good-for-nothing and professional prosecutors. In addition, this project will allow others who are not prosecutors to enter the system, but who are also virtuous and professional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u444	Thank you. Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, faction of the European Solidarity Political Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u445	Please pass the word to Maxim Savrasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u446	Please give the word to Maxim Savrasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u447	Thank you. Maxim Saurasov, European Solidarity. I have a question for you. Mr. Ruslan Georgiyovich, while giving Ukraine a visa-free visa, were the requirements for prosecutorial self-government and internal inspection, what are the prospects in the new prosecutorial office of these institutions? And the second question. We know that there has been a recent case of the NAB regarding the hearing of judges, but the names of the members of the new team have been there. Will this matter be brought to an end, and please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u448	First. As far as the authorities of the prosecution's self-government are concerned. Prosecutors' self-governance bodies – the Qualification and Disciplinary Commission of Prosecutors and the Board of Prosecutors – are important elements for ensuring the independence of prosecutors. But at some point, these organs can actually become a barrier to the updating or re-launching of the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is clear that once the prosecutor’s office has been recharged, when a new warehouse is formed by the new prosecutors of these self - government agencies, they will be able to work effectively again. As for the other cases that you said you were investigating the NAB along with the investigation department, it seems that the SBA is a question to them. On our part, we can guarantee that there will be no influence, interference, or interference.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u449	Thank you. Zupánin Andriy Viktorovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u450	Please pass the word Yatzik to Julia Grigorovni. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u451	Again, please repeat. Pass the word Yatzik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u452	Thank you. Yacik Julia Grigorovna, 79th constituency. Ruslan Georgievic, please tell me, apart from updating and re-launching the prosecutor's office, it's really relevant, and I think it's such a joke that people go around saying that there are no "service novels" in the prosecutor's office, because there are some relatives working there, and they're finally planning to do it in the summer. So I have a question: in addition to the redundancies that are planned to change the structure of the Public Prosecutor's Office or what fate is expected for the Military Prosecutor's Office, will the functions at least be returned? At the prosecutor's office, perhaps? Do you think it's appropriate?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u453	Thank you for asking. What I've said is that these are urgent urgent measures that need to be implemented immediately in order to restart the prosecutor's office, but also because I said that the prosecutor's office is the central authority in the area of the implementation of public policy in the fight against crime, its reform must be carried out in a comprehensive manner with the reform of other organs of criminal justice. The President's Office is currently working on changes in the criminal justice system. It's about reforming both criminal law and criminal justice, and also about how this whole criminal justice system works. Accordingly, the second phase of the reform will already be the complex reform of criminal justice and prosecutorial bodies as the central element of this system.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u454	Thank you. Igor Volodymyrovich Gus, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u455	Thank you. Mr. Ruslan, have you been to Maidan in the 14th year?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u456	No, I wasn't in Maidan when I was 14, because I wasn't in Ukraine at the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u457	Right. Well, anyway, I want to comment on your information. You say we'll do everything we can to complete it, but I'm not sure, and so on. It's a shame that the last five years of Midan's affairs and the people who died there -- the Celestial 100 -- have not been brought to an end, and that's why the authorities passed and the last Henprocuror ended up as it is. Even the Prime Minister is a member of Maidan and there are a lot of people. I very much ask you as a participant in Maidan, a private say clearly now or after a time when you as the Attorney General will complete the matter. How long do you need? Because, unfortunately, Yuri Vitaliovich, who was there, wasn't enough for 3.5 years, unfortunately. I wanted you to be the new person that you're about to pick, to make clear how long it would take for these questions to end, and the people who died.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u458	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u459	Their mothers knew who the contracting party was, who the organizer was, who killed those people who died in Maidan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u460	Thank you for asking. In order to understand what prospects, what the time perspectives of these matters, we need to see the material of these matters. Since I'm not in the system, and I haven't seen the materials of these cases, I can't give you an answer right now, how long the investigation will take, and what the prospects of this investigation will be. We don't know what evidence has been gathered, what evidence has been lost, whose fault have they been lost, and what are the possibilities in general to finalize this investigation. After I am the Attorney General, when I have dealt with this issue in detail, I will be able to give an honest, objective answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u461	Ustenova Alexander Yuriovna, faction of the Voice Political Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u462	Thank you. Dear Mr. Ruslane, we've just heard a speech by former Attorney General Lucenk, and he started by asking you to continue what he started. You know, I'm asking you very much not to continue the case he started, but to break those schemes and all that now exists in the Attorney General's Office. [[Applause]] Two questions I'd like to ask you. I'd like answers to. The first is the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. The issue of the Cold Man's release is out of date, and I'm interested in your position on this. The other one. You know, when we went to Parliament, we said that people's voices would be heard. I want to hear your position now, and whether you will be personally responsible. And I want you to hear my father's voice. I want you to hear Cyril's mother's voice in five years. I want you to hear the voices of hundreds of journalists who still have no answer for the murder of Paul Sheremet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u463	Thank you. You know, I probably already have a personal responsibility because I went out to this rostrum and I answer these questions. Obviously, I'm willing to take responsibility every day, and I'm willing not only to talk to parliamentarians, but to answer to the head of state for what's going on with these investigations, I'm going to communicate with people accordingly. With regard to the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, it's obvious that I can't give you an answer right now that we're going to release or the head of the specialized prosecutor's office to leave office tomorrow. After I've been assigned, the answer to these questions will be given in quite a short time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u464	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich of the Opposition Platform for Life.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u465	Mr. Ruslan, we don't know much about you, but we do know that you've actually been, let's say, repressed, released for your principles by the previous high office. It cannot help but be respectful when a person is willing to suffer and suffer injustice because of his principles. I wish you very much that you could coordinate the actions of all law enforcement agencies -- D.B., N.A.U., B.B.U., M.S.A. -- and find out who killed people in Majdan, who killed people in Odessa. And who, under the word "war," looted among the military and Ukrainian citizens, robbed them of the word "war". I'd like to turn to the team "Z". The people of Ukraine have given you extraordinary attention and respect and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u466	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u467	Thank you. Recent investigations have shown that half of the people of Ukraine do not know their one-manage majority MPs. And that, of course, was actually the third round of President Vladimir Zelensky's election. Today, as opposition, we want you to realize people's hopes. By trusting you, they have loaded you with enormous responsibility. I want you to deal with both first and second. Ukrainians have to win from today's effective power-building, and I want it to be effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u468	Thank you, Your Honor. Questions from factions and groups have ended. Please, Ruslan Georgiyovich, sit down. Sign up?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u469	Can I have a second? If you will support me today, honourable national MPs, there is yet another request to support us with our initiatives to restart the prosecutor's office. [[Applause]] And we'll do our best not to let you down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u470	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up from the MP factions for 10 minutes. Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union. Sobolev, good. Sergey Sobolev, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u471	Sobolje, Fatherland. Our faction did not vote for the appointment of Yuri Lucenka. And unfortunately, our worst fears were justified. Missed terms when they go free because the prosecution did not in due time charge the decision, those that cannot be called criminals, but those who stole billions of money from the state budget. I'm turning to the new attorney general. There are showcases in every area. Even one showcase is brought to court when the verdict is over tens of thousands or, as we call it, millions of open or registered cases. For Zaporozhye district, for example, this was the case that all the channels showed, including 1+1, are tens of millions, covered in the so-called "gold" office in the center of Zaporozhye city, where it was located from the water channel, from education, from health care, and then to whom: the mayor, the head of administration, the prosecutor, the head of the BSS and so on. This man is running free. And despite the fact that the first decision is 12 years and 7 years in financial and order killings respectively, the district attorney does not bring these people to court where the verdict is being tried and handed down. This is the scariest. Therefore, your wish cannot be ordered and unsolicited. The Public Prosecutor's Office is not a political body. You have a legal education. We give you this vote of confidence, the Fatherland faction will vote for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u472	Thank you. [[Applause]] Bužanski Maksim Arkadyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u473	I'm out of town, if I may. Dear Mr. Ruslan, I'm very brief. The previous Attorney-General deliberately sabotaged the investigation of criminal cases directly related to the ex-president, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko. Are you prepared to cooperate effectively with the State Bureau of Investigation and to provide full support for the investigation of cases that bear its name?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u474	These are the reports, the speeches of the national MPs. Unfortunately, a candidate for the post of Attorney General will not be able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u475	Okay. Okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u476	I suggest we move on. Yes, Peter Alekseiovich Prashenko. Please give the floor to the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u477	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, I would like to welcome everyone with the new Supreme Council of the Ninth Assembly. We talked about honesty, honesty, honest discussions, and I'd like to make sure that the loud, unproven accusations that have recently been sung through the position of fairy tale news of Russian TV channels are not repeated in this room without evidence. I want to make it clear that we have all the law enforcement agencies to conduct an impartial investigation. Under the Ukrainian Constitution, a person cannot be accused otherwise than the court’s decision. And I ask from the very beginning that we put away this shameful tradition. There is, and I hope that the Attorney General will be elected. He doesn't have an investigation, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u478	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u479	But there are law enforcement agencies and impartial quality investigations, equality of all before the law, the rule of law is a sign of European and Euro-Atlantic integration. And since we all declare that our goal is this direction of the country's development, I would very much ask that in our parliament, I don't mention anyone right now, that's the atmosphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u480	Thank you. Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov of the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u481	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u482	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u483	Mr. President, the presidency, my fellow dignitaries, I now want an example from the newly elected Prime Minister of Honcharuk, who, after the election, thanked Peter Alexeiovich Prashenko for both his successes and his problems and for the democratically held elections in war conditions. And I want to thank Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka. Not for 115 billion dollars in the budget and not even for more than 3,000 sentences, I want to thank you for the fact that the prosecutors have indeed changed over the last five years. Besides the fact that the Special Disciplinary Commission was set up to monitor the abuses among prosecutors, we didn't see any business persecution, we forgot what the prosecutor of Janukovic's day was, we forgot Pshonka and his son -- that was nothing. And that's why I want to thank everyone who's done everything they could to make this country change in five years. And I want to ask, I think, the newly elected Attorney General, for whom we as the opposition faction will not vote, to continue to preserve democracy in this country. Because democracy is our greatest gain, this is our European path, this is our Ukrainian path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u484	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich of the Opposition Platform for Life.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u485	Mr. Head, I want to thank you for the opportunity to finish the previous speech. To be honest, I wanted to stay away from the talk, because there was a lot of emotion in my last words, but I was inspired by one of our colleagues. Indeed, the presumption of innocence should dominate our society and the work of law enforcement agencies, absolutely true. But, you know, Mr. Ruslan, I don't want to like Cato the Elder, the senator of the Roman Senate, who finished each of his speeches by saying, "Carphagen must be destroyed." 30 days after today, sir, no more minutes, Attorney General, I promise that I will finish every speech with the words, "And Peter Poshenko among us." [[Applause]] I wish you a fruitful cooperation with all the authorities responsible for this investigation to realize the hope of people to investigate and complete the affairs that society is looking forward to. And once again, wishing success to your entire team, because you really are a team. I also have to think of a terrible responsibility. Let every Ukrainian and Ukraine as a whole win from your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u486	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. A replica? Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u487	I would like to stress once again, Mr. President, honourable Mr. Head, honourable invitees, distinguished future Attorney-General, that we do not have to turn the Supreme Council into a playground and trolls today. I'm not interested in Mr. Shufrich's opinion on what he's going to ask as a representative of the occupation platform. I'm not interested in the idea of the Fifth Column of the Kremlin in this room. They weren't supposed to be here. But for the first time, I responded to the People's Servants. And I'm counting on the pro-Ukrainian forces to build the Ukrainian state and lead the country into the European Union and NATO. I think this movement will definitely unite us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u488	Thank you. There's no replica on the line. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Denis Anatoliyovich, is invited to report on the committee’s report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u489	Mr. President, Chairman, Honorary Fellows, the Committee on Law Protection considered the draft decision submitted by the President of Ukraine to approve the appointment of President Ruslan Ryabosapka of Ukraine as Prosecutor-General (registration number 1019) and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision granting approval for the appointment of President of Ukraine Ryabosapka Ruslan Georgievovich as Prosecutor-General to accept as a basis and as a whole, and to extend the appointment of President of Ukraine Ryabosapka Ruslan Georgievovich as Prosecutor-General. As an instruction from the committee, I would like to point out that you, Mr. future Attorney - General, remember the two principles mentioned today: the principle of innocence and the principle of irreversibility of punishment. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u490	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 1019) on the granting of approval for the appointment of the President of Ukraine Rybosapka Ruslan Georgievic as Prosecutor General. People's deputies, please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:36:11]] For 312 [[Applause]] Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 243 "for", "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 23, "For the Future" – 22, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 24. [[Applause]] Thank you all so much for your support. May I have the strength to wish the newly elected Attorney General success. He's going to have a pretty tough job. But I hope it will be very fruitful. Thank you and good luck in your new job.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u491	Thank you, Your Honor. Similarly, I join in greetings. We're moving on to the next question, because we've changed a series of questions, because our committees have been prepared differently. We turn to the draft Ukrainian Law on the Introduction to Article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the Inviolability of Ukrainian National Deputies (Registration No. 7203). [[Applause]] I will remind you that a committee has been convened by the Supreme Council. And I invite you to report to the plenary meeting, at the commission of the Committee, to the Committee of Olga Sougir on the consideration of the issue of recognition in such a way that the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 20.09.2018 No. 2557-8 has become effective. Please, Mrs. Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u492	On 29 August 2019, the President-in-Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President-in-Office of Ukraine, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, considered at its meeting the draft law amending article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the inviolability of Ukraine's national deputies, which was registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 17 October 2017 by No. 7203, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Ukraine recognize that it has effectively lost the validity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree on the further amendment of the draft amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine on the inaccuraccuracies of Ukraine's national deputies by September 20, 2018 No.2557-VIII, on the basis of the draft amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine by the President of Ukraine. Reporter of this matter at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council to appoint the deputy chairman of the committee, Sougir O.V. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u493	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a marked proposal for a vote. At the suggestion of a profile committee, I put the inclusion issue to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] One second, we have two questions, and so we have to look at two of them, and that's why we follow the Rules. Therefore, at the suggestion of a committee of profile, I put to the vote the question of the inclusion of recognition in the agenda of the day, in such a way that the Supreme Council Order of 20.09.2008 No.2557-VIII became invalid. People's deputies would like to support this proposal by voting. Please. Who's in? [[23:40:47]] For 289 Thank you. Decision taken. [[Applause]] Now I'm voting on this issue in a simplified procedure: two in favour, two in favour. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute, we're not going to talk about the Constitution and the change yet, but we're going over the question of the decision to cancel the previous decision. Thank you. Please, I'll put you to the vote. Please be supportive. [[23:41:29]] For 274 Thank you. Decision taken. [[Applause]] Now. Yes, we have revoked the ruling of the previous Parliament, we are now its. Dear colleagues, I would like you to sign up for a statement on this question about the annulment of the decision that I have pointed out, the factions and the groups: two in favour and two in favour. Please record: two in, two in. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we're not a bill, we're not looking at a bill yet. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, we have two questions right now. I'll take it from here. We have two questions. First. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, of course. But the previous decision, it tells us that the timelines have coincided, so we cancel it and now we're going to go to the full program. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the recording took place. Please. Here's to Mikola Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, please. Two for, two for, please. I am. That's it. We're starting a discussion, dear colleagues. Stephenchuk Mikola Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u494	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have a very high responsibility. Each of us promised the people of Ukraine to undo the parliamentary immunity, and each of us must keep that word. Today we have a unique project. The project that was still being developed, starting with a party that now consists of the Opoblok faction, was further submitted by Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, and will now be brought to the discussion of the entire Ukrainian Parliament. I think we have no right to abstain from voting and we have no right to vote against it, because by abstaining from voting and voting against we will betray every Ukrainian. We promised -- we have to keep our word. Vote for it!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u495	Thank you. Next, National Deputy Bondar, please, Party. It's a faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u496	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please hand over Prince Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u497	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. An unprecedented thing just happened. The chairman was announced on the issue of amending the Constitution of Ukraine. To this end, there is a special chapter of the Supreme Council Rules, which provides for a special constitutional procedure. After the committee's appropriate conclusion has been announced, consideration is stopped and consideration of another issue begins: the general procedures for the consideration of draft laws in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, such as the issue of the annulment of the ruling. The question of the annulment of a legal order is possible until it has been signed and effective. And this decree, which was voted on September 20, 2018, is what. the validity of which ended two months after the expiry of its period of action. There is no such decision, there is no one who cannot be considered. Continue to consider the constitutional procedure, we demand to abide by the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u498	Thank you. I would like to draw your attention to the question, not the annulment, but the loss of validity of the decision. Thank you. Let's move on. A word. [[B in m in s a l in]] The word is given to Mr. Lubinz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u499	Please pass the word to Batenku Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u500	Mr. President! Ukraine is a country with vulnerable democracy, the Venice Commission said. Dear friends, we've got the situation a little confused for me. I mean, first of all, we're willing to vote, the MP's "For the Future" group, for limiting the MP's in touch in the first reading. But we have to remember now, I understand that we will still have a discussion, that we are now considering Bill 7203, which proposes to abolish parliamentary immunity, and that is impossible because of the observations made by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. We need to consider these observations by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine since 2018, and they need a separate consideration of Parliament, my friends. In the further adoption of this bill, contrary to the Rules and the requirements of the Basic Law, it may be a reason for the vote to be lifted. We're looking at this bill and cancelling the inviolability of the first reading, but let's follow the Rules and the procedure. And I'm going to remind you of a single replica of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and I'm going to read it, the Constitutional Court, one of the following observations: "The Constitutional Court of Ukraine has repeatedly stressed that the inviolability of the people's deputies of Ukraine is not a personal privilege, an individual right of the people's deputy of Ukraine, but a public-law nature, it's aimed at securing the people's MP from unlawful interference in its activities, ensuring that he does his duties and the proper functioning of Parliament." Let us ensure the proper functioning of the Ukrainian Parliament and then continue to discuss the knowledge of parliamentary immunity in accordance with the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u501	Thank you. The word is given to the People’s Deputy Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u502	Thank you. Please give the floor to the German national deputy to the former judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u503	I'm sorry. We voted two in favour, two in favor. We've already got two votes against, I understand, yes. [[Noise Nodes]] Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u504	Mr. President! Mr. Chairman, the presidency! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] I repeat, I repeat, and then I will be in Ukrainian, for the Russian population of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the first thing I want to say is that it's essentially a matter of interfering with the legislative sphere today in an unconstitutional way. If anyone thinks it's happening, democracy builds like this, I'll tell you this is a bear service I don't know who it is. And now, essentially. First of all, I'm reading Censor. NET: The First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council stated two days ago that he would break, change the Constitution, and change the Constitution. — Art. 80. And today I saw what he said today on the committee that led you, the decision to recommend, the committee, the recommendation. recommends that the Supreme Council order be repealed. Say, from the point of view of constitutionality, of legality, where is it in the world? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please don't interrupt. I wish you would. And the second. I want to say that I am a member of this committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u505	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u506	Let me finish. Let him finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u507	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u508	On September 20, after the Supreme Council decree, the bill was sent to a committee to rework for the purpose of overcoming observations. And he had to return to the Supreme Council in seven days. He also failed to return under article 147 of the Law on the Rules, which in effect becomes worthless as far as article 158 of the Constitution is concerned. That's why I'd like to. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm going to finish. Dear colleagues, today we have taken an oath of allegiance to the Constitution for the preservation of the rule of law. So I'd like, think about it, look at it and make a decision just on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u509	Thank you. Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that the issue of recognition will now be raised that has become invalid, the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 20.09.2018 (number 2557-VIII). Dear colleagues, I have just been given information even on the website of Minsk: It is considered to be valid. So please support this decision by voting. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[23:53:59]] For 277 [[Applause]] Yes. Now, let's get to the bottom of this. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u510	Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to the issue of introduction. [[B in m in s a l in]] on the introduction of amendments to the Transitional Constitution. "Can we keep it down in the hall? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please show by factions: 245 – "Serviary of the People", "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 12, "For the Future" – 3, "Voice" – 0, "non-factional" – 17. Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration is on the transfer of approved draft Law, registration number 7203, on the amendment to article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine (with regard to the inviolability of Ukrainian national deputies). The relevant draft law, along with the finding of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of June 19, 2018, on its compliance with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine, has been handed down to you. According to article 149 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the issue of prior approval of the draft amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine is being considered in full discussion. Honourable National Deputies, the word for the report is given to the national deputy of Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich. [[Applause]] It'll take up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u511	Mr. President, the honourable chairman, the distinguished national MPs, the question of cancelling or restricting the parliamentary integrity has long been out of date, overheated, and the discussion that is now unfolding in our Hall only confirms this once and for all. With regard to Bill 7203, we would like to highlight the following. The bill was introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council on the eighth call to Mr. Dustenk. This bill was sent to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine by decision of the Supreme Council of the eighth vocation in order to reach a conclusion on its compliance with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. You all have the Conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of June 19, 2018, that this bill fully meets the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. So the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in its resolution, pointed out that there were no warnings for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider Bill 7203 amending article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine concerning the removal of two parts which guaranteed that the people's deputies were not touched. So the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right and has the right to consider this bill. Since the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not considered this bill, article 149 of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulations of the Supreme Council is in force. Article 149 states that if the decision of the Supreme Council is not terminated, in accordance with part six of article 156 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine, which is pending by the Supreme Council of Conclusions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the question of the review of the bill is included in the agenda of the day-to-day first session of the newly elected Supreme Council without a vote. Which was done. That is, the draft Law 7203 amending article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine was legally introduced into the agenda without a vote. And according to the Supreme Council Committee, which was entrusted, it was read that the committee recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be considered and approved in advance. Therefore, honourable national MPs, I think we should do the will of the Ukrainian people, fulfil the promises made by the electorate to virtually all the political forces represented in the ninth call in the Ukrainian Parliament, and previously approve Bill 7203 on the removal from article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine of provisions that guarantee parliamentary integrity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u512	Thank you. We heard a report by the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Constitutional Court of the Ukraine of Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich. Let us move on to the discussion between the MPs and the National Deputies. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. In three minutes. Sit down, sit down, Feder Volodymyrovich. The word is given to Lozin Roman Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u513	I give the word to Svetoslav Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u514	May I have your word, Reverend Vakarczuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u515	Dear National MPs, the Voice party has sent a letter to the President before going to Parliament with our bill to amend the Constitution, which is broader than simply lifting the immunity, there are limits to the number of deputies, there are fines, and there are no MPs for walks, there are also restrictions on the two terms of being deputies. The Voice party believes that parliamentary reform is long overdue, it must be complex, and the abolition of parliamentary immunity is only the first part of this very important project. That is why we urge the President to take our bill into account and to start actively implementing parliamentary reform and to bring the rules of work of deputies to normal standards. We promised our constituents, and we promised the entire people of Ukraine that we would cancel the parliamentary immunity -- it was a normal, fair norm that would finally bring the rights of deputies into line with those of other people. We urge and emphasize that it is very important for the MPs to have an identity, that is, the right to express themselves freely and to express their positions, to vote without responsibility for any bill or to express their position. Yet immunity, namely the avoidance of criminal responsibility under the walls of the Supreme Council, must be denied to the deputies. This should not be under the dome of this room there is no place where people hide from being held accountable for crimes or other crimes. That's what we need to do, that's a bill that fits justice, that's a bill that's crucial to us for the Voice party. That is why we will certainly support the abolition of parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u516	Thank you, Your Honor. Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian union of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u517	Dear colleagues! Don't worry. Your previous vote, even when voting for this bill, absolves you of responsibility for absurd decisions. The situation is quite simple. Do we want to undo the intrusiveness? Our decisions must be absolutely irreprehensible. It is also a big game to give reasons to 55 people to challenge a decision before the Constitutional Court and thus to end the abolition of parliamentary immunity. We do not want to participate in this game. [[Applause]] So maybe this sounds absurd to you, but we'll vote in favour. [[Applause]] The only thing we're warning you is that you need to be aware that now that you're in the committee's draft decision, and you're doing it with Parliament's decision, you're saying that the Constitutional Court's warning is one that doesn't fit the Constitution. Think about it! Are there lawyers here? It's not the first call where there were 12 lawyers, it's every other lawyer. So our suggestion is, at least get this procedure right here, so there's no way to press charges against that decision in the Constitutional Court. Remove this absurd phrase. Neither Parliament nor the Committee have the right to assess the decision of the Constitutional Court. [[Applause]] Who doesn't understand it, I remind you, when Yanukovich wanted unlimited powers, they made the appropriate decision of the Constitutional Court. This decision was further annulled by the same Constitutional Court. Do we want to involve the country in these games? No, it's not. That's why we're proposing, we still have a chance, to remove this absurd phrase so that there's no reason for any MP to sign, recognizing that this decision is unconstitutional to Parliament. And then it will be irreprehensible. It allows you to go through the whole procedure. It allows us to identify ourselves and vote consciously. That's why we're voting for it, but we're giving you one last chance to erase this absurd phrase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u518	Thank you. Baloga Viktor Ivanovich, MP for the Future. Taras Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u519	Dear colleagues, let me explain to the Ukrainian society and the people's deputies of Ukraine our position as a member of the "For the Future" group. The parliamentary group "For the Future" supports the restrictions on the inviolability of Ukrainian national MPs and is ready to support appropriate legislative initiatives in the first reading. At the same time, we want to remind ourselves that guarantees of some parliamentary immunity exist in almost all the democratic states of the world, and they protect against political persecution. In just three countries, colleagues, there is absolutely no parliamentary immunity. It's in Malaysia, it's in Namibia and it's in the Netherlands. We don't want to go any further than that to undo the MP's in touch -- two readings in one week. But we know that the walls of this Parliament have long discussed the fact that the lifting of parliamentary immunity should be linked to the limitation of the President’s inviolability, irrespective of his name, and of the judges. And only a complex limitation on the integrity of the President, the people's deputies and judges will ensure the independence of the various branches of government and the establishment of the rule of law in Ukraine. Dear friends, we would also like to point out that the Venice Commission in 2015 concluded that full, I would like to stress that the rejection of parliamentary immunity under the low level of the rule of law in Ukraine is pointless and offered to consider alternatives to the restrictions on parliamentary immunity. Obviously, consideration should also be given to the observations of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, friends who need a separate consideration of the matter. And I will read, with your permission, another warning from the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. According to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, it is appropriate to point out that when deciding on the abolition of parliamentary immunity, it is necessary to take into account the state of the political and legal system of Ukraine, its ability in the absence of a full institution of parliamentary integrity to ensure the unhindered and effective exercise of its powers by the people's deputies. Dear friends! In view of the social resonance and expectations of people, we support the elimination of in touch with the first reading. But for the second reading, it is appropriate to create a working group of representatives of all factions and groups of parliament, which will work out a comprehensive bill that will limit parliamentary immunity, regulate the issue of the President's impeachment and the inviolability of the judges. This bill will simplify the procedure for drawing MPs to responsibility. Colleagues, we need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u520	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u521	Colleagues, we need to save today's historic day, a historic night, which we will then remember decades later, our descendants. We need to preserve Parliament's autonomy as an institution, as a place for discussion, to fight, an institution that meets the goals and aspirations of Ukraine as a European state. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u522	Heroic glory! [[Applause]] Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u523	Please give the word to Michael Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u524	Michael Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u525	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today is a very responsible night. I'd like to address all the Ukrainian national deputies. We made an oath today where the first thesis and the first commitment we made to the Ukrainian people is to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are the Law of Ukraine. Someone likes him or doesn't like him. But we need to be clear about these standards and not focus on any standards selectively. Because when a respected colleague quoted a standard today, you missed some part of the fifth. And it is clearly stated here that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can deal with the issue and decide on the preliminary approval of the bill if there is a new summoning of another, but it ends with the thesis: "and with regard to its provisions, the Constitutional Court has not made any warnings." We reach the conclusion of the Constitutional Court. Tell me honestly, is there a warning here? Yes. There's a warning here from the Constitutional Court, and that's every lawyer you have. Every lawyer will tell you there's a warning from the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u526	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u527	What was done today was, well, for the first time in the history of parliamentaryism, a draft bill on amendments to the Constitution was announced. After this. And the transcript will also be studied in the Constitutional Court. This question is then interrupted, which is a violation of the constitutional procedure in general and the Rules, and they move on to another issue of repealing the draft regulation, which has also been adopted. You know, well, it'll go into the annal of legal history, as it was accepted. Then they go back to another question, and so I read here, and I don't read here, because it's interesting to me. "The Opposition Platform for Life" voted in favour of the previous bill. Moreover, we stress that today is necessary for a balance of power, because we have legislative authority, we have judicial authority, we have executive authority, we need everyone to be in equal conditions. If we want to be equal to the people, we need to take it and be absolutely calm, it is important to undo the inviolability of the Ukrainian people's deputies, the inviolability of the judges, the inviolability of the President of Ukraine. So that we are all in equal conditions and equal before the law and before the citizens of Ukraine. But this needs to be done with filigree, clearly according to the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. There are two decisions of the Constitutional Court last year and of the current year, where the laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been repealed on the basis that the procedure for dealing with the matter has been violated during their consideration. Dearly beloved, we either want to resolve this question and to be honest with people, or today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u528	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u529	Or today someone can consciously, you know, program a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that will be annulled by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. We'll be ashamed of it. We promised people we'd cancel the parliamentary immunity, I think we'd get to the judges, and the president would pass the law on himself. But let's do this in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, and so that this law is already iron concretely fixed in the Constitution and no one has been tempted to submit a constitutional application under the signature of 45 Ukrainian national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u530	Thank you. The word is given to Gethmansev Daniel Alexanderovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u531	Irina Venedict.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u532	Irina Vendiktov, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u533	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear and very dear President of Ukraine! Dear Parliament of the Ninth Call! What the MPs have been talking about for a long, long time, is that we have today a historic night that has lasted for 28 years, let's make this historic night end, and the dawn begins. In fact, the Committee on Legal Policy held its first meeting on the subject. We've looked very closely at it, we've actually got a very professional committee, where there's two lawyers, as a tradition, and there's three thoughts. And we want to assure Parliament that we are acting clearly within the framework of the Constitution, within the framework of the Supreme Council Rules Act and in the interests of the people of Ukraine. So unnecessary manipulations by certain technical processes, by terms that really matter in terms of legal consequences and terms, do not in any way have to lead us, as Parliament of the previous, eighth convocation, to conduct certain procedures, delaying them for years, and then, as the experience of our own MPs says, they cancel them in the Constitutional Court. Today, after holding the first committee meeting, we have prepared for future deputies who may have doubts. That's why we're ready for the next fight for the President of Ukraine's program, for the performance of the People's Servant party, and we know that other political parties have put it in a programming position, and they'll do it by clearly following legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u534	Thank you, Irina. Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, faction of the European Solidarity Political Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u535	Please pass the word to Peter Alexiovich Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u536	Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u537	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! For twenty - five years, the Ukrainian people await the abolition of the untouchable caste, 25 years old. I would like to point out that in the last five years, when I was elected President of Ukraine in 14 years, there were more than 8,000 untouchable in Ukraine. The judicial reform took away the inviolability of the judges, some, including those who spoke, did not notice it. The judicial reform translated the granting of permission by the Supreme Council to bring judges to criminal responsibility for the so-called Immunity, when the Supreme Council of Justice — not a political body — is very quick to consider and allow judges to be brought to criminal responsibility. I would like to point out that I am proud that I, as President of Ukraine, was the author of a bill to abolish parliamentary immunity. The algorithm and procedure of the bill are followed as follows. No roots anyone's ever hinted at today, he doesn't. It was developed by a constitutional commission that was created by my decree as President of Ukraine. After the President, using his constitutional powers, introduced and registered the prescribed bill to the Supreme Council, we received, voted in the Supreme Council and addressed to the Constitutional Court and the Venice Commission. It's just a constitutional procedure. Why? In order for the conclusions of the Venice Commission and the conclusions of the Constitutional Court to be implemented and proposed by the Council to be voted on to amend the Constitution to take into account the conclusions of the Venice Commission, which is to adapt our legislation to the legislation of the European Union. There are no other mechanisms. Second position. This is taking into account the findings of the Constitutional Court. I emphasize that I have no doubt. With your permission, I'd like you to give me the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u538	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u539	The findings of the Constitutional Court should be implemented. I emphasize that there is now a constitutional breach. I emphasize that this puts ours at risk with you. The result of our work. I stress that neither I nor the Fifth President of Ukraine nor European Solidarity have anything to fear. We did, we acted exclusively by law, and the purpose of our being in the Supreme Council of the Ninth Council is to move the country into the European Union and NATO. And the European Union and NATO are the principles of the rule of law. The European Union and NATO are all equal before the law. And that's why from this motivation the faction of European Solidarity will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. You can't wait for someone else. But I would like to stress that you will return to the experience of the January 16 vote. Look at what revolutionary purpose is in this same Council. That was where they tried to vote with their hands on these sad laws. And don't make any mistakes, because it's only on the outside that it's nothing to worry about. In fact, as far as the Constitution is concerned, this is totally unacceptable. So today if you put this question to a vote, I urge "European Solidarity" to vote, to support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u540	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u541	But to prepare for my second reading, my advice is to consider, do and constitutionally translate parliamentary integrity into the MP's identity as a norm of European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u542	Thank you. Olga Sougir is invited by the committee for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u543	Dear colleagues, we all appeal to the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on June 19, 2018. I've got it in my hand. I urge representatives of all factions to come forward and show here a word of caution that you refer to as a constraint that prevents us from considering this bill earlier in today's session. This is the first time. Second, the Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which was adopted by 17. On 13 July 2017, there was no mandate for the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to make any warnings. The Constitution of Ukraine, under which the Constitutional Court is obliged to act, part two of which article 19 obliges the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to do so, does not contain the mandate of the Constitutional Court to make warnings. In this regard, we believe that there are no restrictions on the consideration of Bill 7203 at today’s session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u544	Thank you, Your Honor. I suggest we move on, finish the discussion, and move on to the decision-making process. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Five minutes to the national team. Please sign up. Please sign up. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine Solomon Dmitry Viktorovich, faction of the Political Party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u545	Can I get out of here?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u546	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u547	Greetings, colleagues. I think we need to vote 200 percent for this law because it's very interesting that it's moving this damn cube. Everyone mentioned democracy, the Constitution, and why you didn't mention it when you cut the woods, you extract the stones. [[Applause]] When do the trucks run through Carpenter, Volin, Lviv, air? Why didn't you mention it? Why are you getting so high already? What democracy? Where did you build it? I think, well, for me, you're so drawn to naphthalene, I think this law needs to be passed and given to young forces. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u548	Thank you. Hetmans Danilo Alexanderovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People". Better from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u549	Thank you. I think that age, the age of lies and hypocrisy that we've had for five years, is trying to continue. Because in fact, one of the factions of the Supreme Council, clinging to the legal caseuistics, clinging to moments that really don't exist and in which we've gotten pretty good at even the Preparatory Group yet, let alone the committee meeting and what we've heard from our deputies is trying to replace the truth with a lie, is trying to avoid the fulfillment of their promises to the people. I don't think it's right. I think we should call things our names. And I don't think we need to touch this parliamentary touch, guys. We have most of it. And if we're given even if we're under parliamentary inviolability, we're still going to get rid of this parliamentary inviolability. [[Applause]] You don't have to do these manipulations that you've been doing for five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u550	Thank you. Blue Oleg Mikhailovich, faction of the European Solidarity Political Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u551	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch. And since Mikola Knieżicky, who is the next speaker, also gives Ruslan Knyazević, please give the national deputy Knyazevitch 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u552	Three minutes left at all, so three minutes. Give me your word, Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u553	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head. Frankly, I want to start with the essence of the question so that when the people's deputies made their decisions, they were still completely armed with information. Because I have such a deep feeling that people don't understand what's going on. The point is that the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is part of the constitutional procedure. And this is not what I have defined with you and not with Parliament, and this is what the Constitutional Court has determined in its decision. And the Constitutional Court itself stated in its decision what it would consider to be an appropriate compliance with the Rules Act as part of the constitutional procedure. The decision of the Constitutional Court has the legal force of the rules of the Constitution. So this is already the standard of the Constitution. In view of this, the Rules of Procedure Act has reflected a rule that has been mentioned several times today that if the Constitutional Court concludes any warnings, such a finding is a reason for Parliament to continue its work on this conclusion and to make appropriate changes to remove the warnings. Until these warnings are withdrawn, such a bill cannot be subject to prior approval. This is a clear imperative of Ukrainian law. Given this, you get the right conclusion. You asked here, where did you find the warning? So start with the committee's conclusion. You write about 90 percent of the text, admitting it. And in these warnings, I'm not talking about the substance of the bill right now, I'm not even talking about the substance of the warnings, but the existence of warnings is a compelling reason to continue working on the bill and make the necessary changes to it. Which, by its decree of September 20, 2018, the Supreme Council made a prior call. To that end, an appropriate deadline was given for the law - abiding entities of the President’s legislative initiative and at least 150 national deputies of Ukraine to make appropriate changes by removing those warnings. But they did not exercise their right to do so. And that determination that you found invalid today, you've declared a non-existent decision because it ended up with an appropriate term, it's fulfilled, it's dissolved in the air, it doesn't exist. But today you've won it all over again. Well, it's already a matter of, as they say, delicious. How did events progress? Accordingly, it was said that we could consider the bill because it was not previously considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. No, he was considered. This consideration of him and the continuation of his work is and is the procedure for considering him. Another point is that it will not end with prior approval but with an appropriate decision. In view of this, according to the Rules of Procedure Act, this bill is deemed to be non-continuation of work and withdrawn from consideration, it does not exist. We are now considering a non-existent bill, in which we are in grave violation of the constitutional procedure for the consideration of bills. We should have done it in the Constitution: introduce a new bill, send it to the Constitutional Court already.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u554	Thank you. No, it's been three minutes, colleagues. It was three minutes. Let's move on, though. Let's finish the discussion and get to the vote. At the same time, I would like to point out that in the Ministry of Justice database, this ruling is counted as valid. So let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with article 155 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 149 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Decree (Registration No. 1095) on the prior approval of the bill (Registration No. 7203) amending article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine (on the inviolability of Ukrainian national deputies) for adoption as a whole. Please support and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I read about prior approval. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the decision is taken in general, the Order of prior approval. So let us not be misled. Once again, I'll put it to the vote. Please support and vote, Your Honor. [[Applause]] [[00:31:04]] For 363 363 - in, against -0, held -1. Decision taken. [[Applause]] Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 247, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 26, "Fatherhood" – 24, "For the Future" – 19, "Voice" – 15, "non-fractional" – 32. I am grateful to all who have taken part in this decision and have supported it. Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I propose that the following issues be considered, namely, the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Deputies. Let's thank Mr. President. Vladimir Alexandrovich, thank you. [[Applause]] Let's get back to work. Dear colleagues, let me inform you about the issue of the Conciliation Council of the MP factions, the MP groups. In accordance with article 73 of the Rules, the Conciliation Board of Deputies is established as an advisory body for the preparation and consideration of organizational matters of the Supreme Council. The Conciliation Board consists of: Head of the Supreme Council, First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Heads of Deputies, Deputies with the right to vote and Heads of Committees with the right of advisory vote. Since the appointed officials have already been elected, the appointed heads of the parliamentary factions and the parliamentary groups have thus been established in accordance with the Rules, the Conciliation Council has been established. I welcome you. Let us move on to the following questions of the order of the day. I give the word to David of Arahama. David Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u555	Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine, by letter dated August 28, 2019 under number 02-011423, asked the Supreme Council to consider without delay the series of bills listed in this letter. There are also bills to amend the Constitution of Ukraine. With regard to these bills, I ask the Committee on Legal Policy to prepare them for consideration. As for the other bills under which the Head of State has stressed, we propose that the Supreme Council be instructed to prepare them for urgent consideration with a reduction in the deadlines for their alternative bills. Please put it to the vote for immediate assignments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u556	Dear colleagues, in view of a letter from the President of Ukraine dated 29.08.2019 (registration number 02-011423), as well as the initiative of the "Serve of the People" faction, I entrust the Committee on Legal Policy to prepare for consideration the following constitutional laws. In particular, on the amendment to article 76 and 77 of the Constitution on the reduction of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the consolidation of the proportional electoral system (registration No. 1017); on the amendment to article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine on additional grounds for the suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy (registration No. 1027); on the amendment to article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine on advisory and other subsidiary bodies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration No. 1028); on the amendment to article 85 and 101 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the authorization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration No. 106); on the amendment of article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the legislative and legislative initiatives of the nation (registration No. 1015); on the amendment of the Anti-registral Council of Ukraine (registration Code No. 1016). Dear colleagues, I ask the committee to deal with the above-mentioned issues. I also propose that we vote and support and give this commission to the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Process the date committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then, at my commission, thank you. Next. I am voting on the question of the commission of a committee whose subjects are the subject of a review of the draft Law on Amendments to the Act on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court (Registration No. 1025). I'll bet you a vote. Please vote and support. [[00:38:01]] For 260 Thank you. We have entrusted a committee to which the draft Law on the subject of knowledge belongs. I still called the bill. I would like to put to the vote the question of the short-term introduction of alternative bills to the bill of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Act of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court (registration 1025). [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we suggest that we process the committee and give the commission. [[B in m in s a l in]] These are the urgent ones introduced by the President. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, I'd like you to follow the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[00:39:20]] For 247 Thank you. That's what we do. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, we're being sent to the committee for urgent processing. I am voting on the question of the commission of a committee whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Postponing the Use of Penal Sanctions for Infringement of Importation of Vehicles into Customs Territory of Ukraine (Registration No. 1030). Please vote and support. [[00:40:30]] For 252 I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to a bill amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the suspension of the application of penalties for the violation of the procedure for the importation of vehicles into Ukrainian customs territory (registration 1030). Please be supportive. [[00:41:06]] For 257 Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the question of the commission of a committee to which the matter of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the confiscation of illegal assets of persons authorized to perform functions of the State or local self-government and punishment for the acquisition of such assets (registration No. 1031). Please be supportive. [[00:41:50]] For 258. Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the confiscation of illegal assets of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government and penalties for the acquisition of such assets (registration No. 1031). Please be supportive. [[00:42:28]] For 270. Thank you. Decision taken. I put to the vote the question of the commission of a committee whose subjects are subject to the question. Consideration of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on Corruption Detectors (registration number 1010). Please be supportive. [[00:43:04]] For 274 Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to Ukraine's draft amendment to Ukraine's Anti-Corruption Act (registration number 1010). Please vote and vote. [[00:43:38]] For 274 Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the question of the commission of a committee that is subject to the consideration of a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the first-line measures taken by the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office (registration 1032). Please vote and support for urgent consideration. [[00:44:17]] For 272 Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the first-line measures for reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office (Registration No. 1032). Please vote and vote. [[00:44:49]] For 276 Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the question of the commission of a committee to which the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on ensuring the effectiveness of the institutional mechanism for preventing corruption is under consideration. Please vote and vote. [[00:45:23]] For 268. Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on ensuring the effectiveness of the institutional mechanism for preventing corruption (registration No. 1029). Please vote and support, [[00:46:01]] For 274 Thank you. Decision taken. A statement was made regarding the announcement of the break. [[B in m in s a l in]] At the show? In exchange for the performance? Okay. Okay, according to the Rules. Who will act? Dear colleagues, who will be speaking? The faction leader? Let's have faction leaders, two factions. No, wait, you told the faction leaders. Please, faction leaders, please. No, no, you said faction leaders. Faction leaders, please. No, no, no, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Faction leaders, we look forward to their performance. [[Noise Nodes]] You proposed: faction leaders. Irina Volodymyr! [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Mr. Knyazevich, we invite you to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u557	Mr. Head, I just want to say that we have taken a break from the two factions for a proper proposal with one goal: to understand what's going on. From the outset, you announced an order for consideration of an additional issue of the order of the day that had not been approved from the outset. Did I get that right? After you heard our warnings, you said there was no need to consider it, really, I could do it on my own initiative by signing it. And that's enough, because that's really part of the Rule of Law. Now we don't understand what's going on. You're voting dozens of agenda issues that aren't approved, and so all of these votes are illegal. In view of these circumstances, we ask that we stop the illegal procedure for dealing with matters that are not considered but follow the procedure. Any commission to committees, committee heads, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council as Head of the Supreme Council under the Committees Act, by the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, may be given solely without any mandate of the Supreme Council. Let us ask that we obey the law and do not violate the order of the day we have adopted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u558	Ruslan Alexiyovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u559	Yes, I just want to make it clear that, in accordance with part four of article 96 of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council for urgent consideration, a bill may be included in the agenda of the plenary session without further inclusion in the agenda of the day session if it has been prepared for urgent consideration for the fulfilment of the relevant mandate of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u560	Dear colleagues, I suggest you continue. I am voting on the matter of commissioning a committee for urgent consideration to a committee on which consideration of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of the National Guard of Ukraine (registration No. 1007) is concerned for urgent consideration. Please vote. [[00:50:30]] For 252 Thank you. Decision taken. 252. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the activities of the Ukrainian National Guard (registration No. 1007). Please support and vote. [[00:51:02]] For 246 Thank you. Decision taken. I put to the vote the question of the commission of a committee, the subject of which is the consideration of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Defence Act on the organization of the defence of the State (registration No. 1011). Please support and vote. [[00:51:35]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Defence Act on the Organization of State Defence (No. 1011). Please support and vote. [[00:52:07]] For 253 Thank you. Decision taken. I put to the vote the question of the deadline for a committee whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the grounds for referral to the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court and on the terms of return of administrative cases (registration No. 1026). For urgent consideration. Please support and vote. [[00:52:53]] For 242 Thank you. 242. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote the issue of short-term amendments to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the grounds for referral to the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court and on the terms of return of administrative cases (registration No. 1026). Please support and vote. [[00:53:31]] For 248 Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the matter of the deadline for a committee whose objects of knowledge are the subject of a review of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of judicial bodies. Judge’s Office (register number 1008) For urgent processing. Please support and vote. [[00:54:07]] For 256 Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the activities of judicial authorities (registration No. 1008). Please support and vote. [[00:54:40]] For 257 Thank you. Decision taken. I put to the vote the question of the term of commission to committees whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the improvement of certain provisions of criminal procedural law (registration No. 1009). For urgent consideration. Please support and vote. [[00:55:18]] For 259. Thank you. Decision taken. I put to the vote the question of the deadline for committees whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the improvement of certain provisions of criminal procedural law (1009) Please support and vote. [[00:55:53]] For 262 Thank you. Decision taken. I would like to vote on the issue of shorter sentences, the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of individual provisions of criminal procedural law (registration No. 1009) Please vote and vote. [[00:56:24]] For 266 I am voting on the question of the commission of committees to which the draft Law on Special Procedures for the removal of the President of Ukraine from office (impiscment) (registration number 1012) is to be considered. For urgent consideration. Please support and vote. [[00:56:56]] For 263 Thank you. Decision taken. 263-yes. I am voting on the issue of shorter sentences, the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on a special procedure for the removal of the President of Ukraine from office (impicment) (registration number 1012). Please support and vote. [[00:57:29]] For 270. Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the question of the commission of a committee whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the loss of the right of national deputies to financial security in case of a pass without valid reasons for the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or the meetings of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registrational No. 1035). For urgent consideration. Please vote and vote. [[00:58:12]] For 261 I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Loss of National Deputy of Ukraine's Right to Financial Security in the event of a Pass without valid reasons for plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registrational No. 1035). Please vote and vote. [[00:58:49]] For 259. Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the question of the commission of a committee whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on bringing in compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine (registration number 1045) for urgent consideration. Please support and vote. [[00:59:24]] For 259. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote the question of the short-term introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules on bringing them into line with the Constitution of Ukraine (Registration No. 1045). Please support and vote. [[00:59:56]] For 260 Thank you. 260. Decision taken. I am voting on the question of the commission of a committee whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the right of the legislative initiative of the Ukrainian National Deputies (1040). For urgent consideration. Please support and vote. [[01:00:30]] For 258. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Law of Legislative Initiative by Ukrainian National Deputies (Registration No. 1040). Please support and vote. [[01:01:00]] For 253 Ruslan Alexiyovich, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u561	Thank you. I call for a vote on the matter of the term of commission of a committee to which the matter of the draft Law amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on combating the abuse of the rights of national deputies in the course of the legislative procedure (registration number 1043) for urgent consideration. Please support and vote. [[01:01:41]] For 251 Thank you. I would like to put to the vote the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules against the Abuse of the Rights of People's Deputies in the Legislative Procedure (registration No. 1043). Please vote and vote. [[01:02:14]] For 254 Thank you. I put to the vote the question of the deadline for the committee to which the matter is referred, the draft Act of Ukraine amending article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the requirements for proposing amendments to a second reading bill (registration No. 1039). Please support and vote. [[01:02:55]] For 246 I said. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the question of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules on Proposals and Amendments to the Second Reading Bill (Registration No. 1039). Please support and vote. [[01:03:33]] For 246 Thank you. I am voting on the issue of the deadline for the committee to be considered, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the openness and transparency of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration No. 1036). Please vote and vote. [[01:04:09]] For 252 Thank you. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the openness and transparency of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration No. 1036). [[01:04:45]] For the 250. Thank you. I put to the vote the question of the commission of a committee that is known to be the subject of a draft law review to amend the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the introduction of electronic documents related to the legislative process for its urgent consideration (register No. 1044). Please vote and vote. [[01:05:25]] For 248 Thank you. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the introduction of electronic documents related to the legislative process (registration number 1044). Please vote and support. [[01:05:57]] For 252 Thank you. I am voting on the question of the commission of a committee to which the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the introduction of electronic documents relating to the legislative process for urgent consideration (registration number 1044) is subject. Please vote and vote. [[01:06:45]] For 246 Thank you. I am asking for a vote on the shortening of the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on the introduction of electronic documents related to the legislative process (registration number 1044). Please vote and vote. [[01:07:17]] For 248 Thank you. I would like to put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee, which is subject to the consideration of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules on Planning and Systematicity of the Legislative Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 1042). Please vote and vote. [[01:07:55]] For 248 Thank you. Can we do a more fractional demonstration on the factions? Thank you. I would like to put to the vote the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on the Planning and Systematicity of the Legislative Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 1042). Please vote and support. [[01:08:39]] For the 250. Thank you. I am voting for an urgent consideration of the question of the commission of a committee to which a review of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies on the Act on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine is due, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine (Registration No. 1038). Please vote and vote. [[01:09:13]] For 249 Thank you. I would like to put to the vote the question of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine on the introduction of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine (Registration No. 1038). Please vote and vote. [[01:09:46]] For 245 Thank you. I would like to put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee to which consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Privatization of State and Municipal Property (Registration No. 1037). Please vote and vote. [[01:10:21]] For 243 Thank you. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State and Municipal Property (registration No. 1037). Please vote and vote. [[01:10:48]] For 242 Thank you. I put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee to which consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine on certain matters of the function of authorized economic operators (registration number 1048) is to be considered. Please vote and vote. [[01:11:21]] For 242 Thank you. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Code on Certain Issues of the Functioning of Authorized Economic Operators (Registration No. 1048). Please vote and vote. [[01:11:49]] For 247 Thank you. I would like to put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee to which the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Safety of Roads (Registration No. 1061) relates. Please vote and vote. [[01:12:23]] For 244 Thank you. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Road Safety (Registration No. 1061). Please vote and vote. [[01:12:53]] For 244 Thank you. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote a matter for urgent consideration of the commission of a committee to which consideration of the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine on specific issues of the exercise of habilitary weight control (registration No. 1047). Please vote and vote. [[01:13:31]] For 240 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on specific issues of haberdashery and weight control (registration No. 1047). Please vote and vote. [[01:14:03]] For 243 Thank you. Dear colleagues, please mobilize a few more hours. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee to which the draft Ukrainian Law on amending the Code of Budgets for the Establishment of a State Road Fund (Registration No. 1063) is addressed. Please vote and vote. [[01:14:42]] For 245 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on Sources of State Road Fund Formation (Registration No. 1063). Please vote and vote. [[01:15:13]] For 246 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee, the subject of which is the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving administrative services in the area of construction and the creation of a single national electronic system in the area of construction (registration No. 1081). Please vote and vote. [[01:15:53]] For 245 Thank you. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the procedures for the provision of administrative services in the area of construction and the establishment of a single state electronic system in the area of construction (registration No. 1081). Please vote and vote. I'd like you to mobilize, colleagues. [[01:16:28]] For 247 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee, the subject of which is the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Building Standards on Improvements in Construction (Registration No. 1052). Please vote and vote. [[01:17:02]] For 244 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Building Standards for Improvements in Construction (registration No. 1052). Please vote and vote. [[01:17:33]] For 247 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement and some other legislative acts on improving public procurement (registration No. 1076). Please vote and vote. [[01:18:09]] For 247 Thank you. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement and some other Ukrainian legislative acts on improving public procurement (registration No. 1076). Please vote and vote. All right, guys, let's get out of here. [[01:18:41]] For 236
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u562	Dear colleagues, I ask you to start voting anyway. I realize I'm tired, but there's not much left.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u563	We're working. Let's work, guys! Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee to which the draft Law on the Common Transit and Implementation of the National Electronic Transit System (Registration No. 1082) is addressed. Please vote and vote. [[01:19:29]] For 246 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on the Common Transit and Implementation of the National Electronic Transit System (Registration No. 1082). Please vote and vote. [[01:19:59]] For 246 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee to which it is known to be the subject of a review of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance (Registration No. 1057). Please vote and vote, please vote and support. [[01:20:43]] For 243 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Collection and Accounting for a Single National Social Insurance Contribution (Registration No. 1057). Please vote and vote. [[01:21:20]] For 244 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a matter for urgent consideration, a matter of commissioning a committee that is subject to consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code concerning the submission of a single report on the sole contribution to the general public social insurance and income tax (Registration No. 1072). Please vote and vote. [[01:22:02]] For 248 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the question of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code for the submission of a single report with a single contribution to the general government social insurance and income tax (registration No. 1072). Please vote and vote. [[01:22:39]] For 245 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote for urgent consideration the question of amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to reduce the pressure on business (registration No. 1080). Please vote and vote. [[01:23:12]] For the 250. Thank you. I would like to put to the vote the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedural Code on Business Pressure Reduction (Registration No. 1080). Please vote and vote. [[01:23:44]] For 243 Thank you. I would like to put to the vote the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on amending the Code of Budgets. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, guys, I'm already a little confused. I put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee to which consideration of the draft Law amending the Budget Code on State support for cinematography (registration No. 1074) is to be considered. Please vote and vote. [[01:24:31]] For 246 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Budget on State Support for Cinematography (registration No. 1074) Please vote and vote. [[01:25:01]] For the 250. Thank you. I put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee whose objects of knowledge belong to the examination of the procedures for the consideration of matters of the draft Recognition Act, which has become invalid, to the Act of Ukraine "On the List of Objects of State Property Rights Unprivatized" (registration No. 1054). Please vote and vote. [[01:25:39]] For 251 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the question of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian law on recognition of such acts as have become invalid, the Ukrainian Act on the List of Objects of State Property Rights Unprivatized (registration No. 1054). Please vote and vote. [[01:26:12]] For 248 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote for urgent consideration the question of commissioning a committee to which consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to certain legislative acts on improving the functions of the State regulation of financial services markets (registration No. 1069) Please vote and vote. [[01:26:49]] For 248 Thank you. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain legislative acts to improve the functions of the State regulation of financial services markets (registration No. 1069). Please vote and vote. [[01:27:20]] For 243 Thank you. I put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee to which consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Childhood of Trade and Services (registration No. 1073) belongs. Please vote and vote. [[01:27:54]] For 241 Thank you. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Detinction of Settlements in Trade and Services (Registration No. 1073). Please vote and vote. [[01:28:24]] For 241
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u564	Dear colleagues, I'm putting the matter to a vote for urgent consideration. I put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee known to be the subject of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services (1053) on the Detining of Accounts in Trade and Services (1053). Please support and vote. [[01:29:12]] For 245 Thank you. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote the question of the short-term introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services (Registration No. 1053). Please vote and vote. [[1 :29:50]] For 252 Thank you. Decision taken. I put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of a single tax and congregation account, the only contribution to a mandatory national social insurance (registration number 1049). Please support and vote. [[01:30:31]] For 248 Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of a single bill for the payment of taxes and assemblies, the only contribution to the general government insurance obligation (registration number 1049). Please vote and vote. [[01:31:06]] For the 250. Thank you. Decision taken. I put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of commissioning a committee to the objects of knowledge of which is the bill to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code for the introduction of a single tax and congregation account, the only contribution to a general compulsory state insurance (registration number 1051). Please support and vote. [[01:31:45]] For 253 Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the shortening of the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code for the implementation of the single market for the payment of taxes and assemblies, the only contribution to the general government social insurance obligation (registration No. 1051). Please support and vote. [[01:32:22]] For 252 I would like to put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee to which questions are referred, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the reinstatement of power (registration No. 1066). Please support and vote. [[1:32:56]] For 243 Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Re-loading Authority (Registration No. 1066). Please support and vote. [[01:33:23]] For 245 I would like to put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Succession of Ukraine to repeal the acts of the USSR and the USSR in Ukraine (Registration No. 1075). Please support and vote. [[01:33:59]] For 248 Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Succession of Ukraine to repeal the acts of the USSR and the USSR in Ukraine (Registration No. 1075). Please support and vote. [[01:34:33]] For 253 I would like to put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of consumers of financial services (registration No. 1085). Please support and vote. [[01:35:05]] For 251 Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the short-term introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of consumers' rights to financial services (registration No. 1085). Please support and vote. [[01:35:38]] For 247 Thank you. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee to which the questions of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on State regulation of space activities (registration No. 1075) are dealt. Please support and vote. [[01:36:14]] For the 250. Thank you. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote the issue of short-term amendments to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on State regulation of space activities (Registration No. 1075). Please support and vote. [[01:36:45]] For 249 Thank you. Decision taken. I put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee to which the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the Promotion of Investment Activities in Ukraine (registration number 1059) is considered. Please support and vote. [[01:37:18]] For 255 Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of investment activities in Ukraine (registration number 1059). Please support and vote. [[01:37:49]] For 255 I put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine on State Subsidy to Return Part of Qualified Expenses by Foreign Filmers in Production, Production of Films in Ukraine (Registration No. 1058). Please support and vote. [[01:38:33]] For 253 Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine on State Subsidy to Return Part of Qualified Expenses by Foreign Film Subjects in Production, Production of Films in Ukraine (Registration No. 1058). Please support and vote. [[01:39:09]] For 254 Thank you. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the reduction of the number of commercial activities subject to licensing (registration No. 1050). Please support and vote. [[01:39:45]] For 251 Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the reduction of the number of commercial activities subject to licensing (registration No. 1050). Please support and vote. [[01:40:19]] For 251 Thank you. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the procedure for licensing (registration No. 1060). Please support and vote. [[01:40:50]] For 247 I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the procedure for licensing (registration No. 1060). Please support and vote. [[01:41:20]] For 248
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u565	Dear colleagues, please concentrate.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u566	Thank you. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee whose objects of knowledge are subject to the consideration of matters of order. Consideration of the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the legal protection of geographical names (registration number 1065). Please support and vote. [[01:41:57]] For 249 I am voting on the shortening of the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the legal protection of geographical names (registration No. 1065). Please support and vote. [[1:42:29]] For 246 Thank you. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the protection of the rights of the design of semiconductor products (registration No. 1062). Please support and vote. [[01:43:11]] For 246 Thank you. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote the issue of shortening the deadlines for introducing alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law (registration number 1062). Please support and vote. [[01:43:37]] For 244 Thank you. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Standardization (Registration No. 1068). Please support and vote. [[01:44:12]] For 247 Thank you. Decision taken. I'll bet you a vote on the project. I am putting to the vote the issue of shortening the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian law (registration number 1068). Please support and vote. [[01:44:41]] For 249 Thank you. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Use of Nuclear Energy (Registration No. 1084). Please support and vote. [[01:45:13]] For 245 Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Use of Nuclear Energy (Registration No. 1084). Please support and vote. [[01:45:42]] For 244 Thank you. Decision taken. I put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Act on Concession (Registration No. 1046). Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u567	Dear colleagues, please vote. [[01:46:11]] For 248
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u568	Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the shortening of the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the Ukrainian Act. to the Ukrainian Concession Act (Registration No. 1046). Please support the vote. [[01:46:41]] For 245 Thank you. Decision taken. I put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee that is subject to consideration of the draft Law on State and Municipal Property (Registration No. 1055). Please support and vote. [[01:47:12]] For the 250. Thank you. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote the issue of shortening the deadlines for introducing alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Amendment Act. on the rental of state property and utility property (registration number 1055). Please support and vote. [[01:47:40]] For the 250. Thank you. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee to which the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on Medium-term Development Planning and Maintenance of Motorways of General Use (Registration No. 1064) is addressed. Please support and vote. [[01:48:18]] For 253 Thank you. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote the issue of shortening the deadlines for introducing alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law (registration number 1064). Please support and vote. [[01:48:44]] For 242 Thank you. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Sources of Financing for the Road Economy (for the implementation of medium-term planning, development and maintenance of the roadways of general use) (registration number 1041). Please support and vote [[01:49:23]] For 252 Thank you. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote the issue of shortening the deadlines for introducing alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law (registration number 1041). Please support and vote. [[01:49:47]] For 248 Thank you. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee to which consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the improvement of the financial restructuring procedure (registration No. 1070) is to be considered. Please support and vote. [[01:50:21]] For 252 Thank you. Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote the issue of shortening the deadlines for introducing alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law (registration No. 1070). Please support and vote. [[01:50:47]] For 247 Thank you. Decision taken. I put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee, which is the subject of a review of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine and the recognition of those that have become invalid, of the Ukrainian Law on the List of Allowances in Economic Activities (Registration No. 1067). Please support and vote. [[01:51:28]] For 255 Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the shortening of the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law, registration number 1067. Please support and vote. [[01:51:56]] For 249 Thank you. I would like to put to the vote for urgent consideration the question of the commission of a committee whose objects of knowledge are the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of property rights (registration No. 1056). Please support and vote. [[01:52:26]] For 249 Thank you. Decision taken. I am voting on the issue of shortening the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of property rights (registration No. 1056). Please support and vote. [[01:52:58]] For 247
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u569	Dear colleagues, we have completed the basic list. [[Applause]] At the same time, I don't want to confuse you, but I'm very sorry, but in order for no one to have any doubts that we've asked the committees to prepare the bills for immediate consideration (registration numbers: 1007, 1010, 1011, 1025, 1029, 1030, 1031 and 1032), I'm asking you very much, maybe there's been a mistake, we're going to have eight more of these bills reconfirmed so that we don't. We can't confirm them together, friends. One at a time. We have to go through this procedure again. I'm sorry. Not at first, just those eight. I'll only speak by registration numbers. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the question of the commission of the Main Committee to prepare, for immediate consideration, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court (Registration No. 1025). Please vote and vote. [[01:54:40]] For 253 Dear, distinguished colleagues, I am putting to the vote the question of shortening the deadline for introducing alternative bills to the draft Law (registration number 1025). Please vote and vote. [[01:55:07]] For the 250. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the question of the commission of the Main Committee to prepare for urgent consideration the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Postponing Penal Sanctions for Infringement of Importation of Vehicles into Customs Territory of Ukraine (Registration No. 1030). Please vote and vote. [[01:55:44]] For the 250. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a shorter time frame for the introduction of an alternative bill to the draft Law (registration No. 1030). Please vote and vote. [[01:56:08]] For 255 Dear colleagues, thank you. I would like to vote on the mandate of the Main Committee to prepare, for urgent consideration, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the confiscation of illegal assets of persons authorized to perform functions of state and local self-government and the penalties for obtaining such assets (registration No. 1031). It's illegal wealth. Please, let's back it up. [[01:56:46]] For 256 Thank you. Dear colleagues, the issue of shortening the deadline for introducing alternative bills to the draft Law (registration No. 1031) is put to the vote. Please vote and vote. [[01:57:09]] For 256 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the commission of the Main Committee to prepare a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act (registration number 1010) for urgent consideration. A request for support. I'll bet you a vote. [[01:57:39]] For 254 Dear colleagues, I am voting on shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Law (registration number 1010). Please vote and vote. [[01:58:05]] For 254 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the question of having the Main Committee prepare a draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to which Ukrainian legislative acts on the first-line measures for the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office (Registration No. 1032). Please vote and vote. [[01:58:36]] For 260 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the question of shortening the deadline for introducing alternative projects to the draft Act (registration No. 1032). Please vote and vote. [[01:58:57]] For 261 Thank you. Honorary colleagues, I am voting on the question of having the main committee prepare, for immediate consideration, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on ensuring the effectiveness of the institutional mechanism for preventing corruption (registration number 1029). Please vote and vote. [[01:59:30]] For 256 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Ukrainian Law (registration number 1029). Please vote and vote. [[01:59:53]] For 256 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the question of commissioning the Main Committee to prepare, for immediate consideration, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the activities of the National Guard (Registration No. 1007). Please vote and vote. [[02:00:26]] For 253 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to the draft Law (registration number 1007). Please vote and vote. [[02:00:51]] For 254 Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the question of having the Main Committee prepare for an alternative review the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Defence Act on the Organization of State Defence (Registration No. 1011). Please vote and vote. [[02:01:20]] For 254 And finally. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the issue of shortening the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills to draft Act No. 1011. Please vote and vote. [[02:01:48]] For 260 Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u570	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. [[Applause]] The next question is the calendar schedule for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. The report invites the head of the Committee on the Rules of Deputy Ethics and Organization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u571	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, the draft Decree (Registration No. 1087) on the calendar plan for the holding of the second session of Parliament of the Ninth Call, submitted by the National Deputies to the Committee on Rules, MPs, the organization of the work of the Supreme Council in accordance with the decision of the Committee of 29 August Protocol No. 1. This calendar plan is prepared to meet the requirements of part one of article 83 of the Constitution, because we know that the next Tuesday is due to begin another session of Parliament under the Constitution. The project proposes to start the second session of the 9th call on September 3, and to complete its work on January 24, 2020. As you can see, the draft calendar plan provides for 10 plenary weeks, 6 weeks to work on committees, commissions, MPs, 5 weeks to work with voters, and 8 hours to carry out "hours of questions to the government" in the Supreme Council. I have to say that we have taken into account the specifics that will be held in the next session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, they will be held from September 30th to October 4, 19th, and from January 27th to January 31st, 2020, these dates do not include plenary sessions. And in addition, the holidays are not working days. So the draft decision was given to all of you. The committee decided unanimously to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a calendar plan for the holding of the second session of the Supreme Council of the ninth call on the basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u572	Dear colleagues, I propose to support the committee's position and to vote in favour of Bill 1087. Discussion? I think we should not discuss this. Colleagues, let's vote for the agenda, please support. Colleagues! By procedure, okay, Nestor Ivanovich. And a calendar plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u573	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I'm positive for all the details, but today, I have a friend of Igor Kruth, and I'm going to throw up for anything but hunger. For the first time in the history of parliamentaryism, we in one session approve the calendar of the next session. It's never been like this before. I'm just calling your attention to this. More logically, it would probably be the first question to vote on the first day of the next session. But most of you have your will. I'm just pointing out that this is a decision that no Supreme Council has ever taken or taken before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u574	Thank you. But if I'm not mistaken, I'm told that, after all, the next one was confirmed. So let's, nevertheless, confirm the proposal. Yeah. Wait, there are colleagues from Voice, Mr. Svetoslav Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u575	Sergey Rachmaninov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u576	Please turn on the Rachmanin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u577	Thank you. First of all, I welcome that we have finally returned to the Rules, which has allowed us to return to the Supreme Council Hall. Look, you actually have the right to vote it now, you have the right to vote it by procedure without discussing what I would advise you not to do. There is a warning that the calendar plan is better to vote at the beginning of the next session, but I would like to do it now. After what you've done, let's make sense of what you started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u578	Thank you. I propose, however, to go to the vote for the draft Order on the calendar of the Supreme Council for the second session, the holding of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 1087). Please support and vote. [[02:07:50]] For 278 Thank you. Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the regulation on how to explain the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine. Excuse me, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u579	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, we work so hard, it's not even always the technique that works, and I just have to read our colleagues' statements. I'm asking you to count my vote for Project No. 1019, just like the card didn't work. National Deputy Gurin, please count my vote in favour of draft decree 1019 concerning the appointment of the Attorney General. I'd like you to take my vote in favour of forming the Cabinet of Ministers because the card didn't work. The head of the Supreme Council of the People's Deputy of Arabia, I ask you to count my vote in favour, Bill 1018 – the release of Lucenko, did not work at the right time. The National Deputy Speedy when voting on the issue of the approval of the CMU did not work, please count my vote. National Deputy Koravchenkov, please include my vote "for" in the termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies appointed to KMU, 1005. Again from Koravchenkov, please consider my voice "for" in the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. From the people's deputy Yanchenko, please take my vote in favour of voting for the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers, considering that the card did not work for technical reasons. From the Jurchenka People's Department, please take my vote "yes" into account during the vote on the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. National Deputy Bakumov, please take my vote number 94 to account for my "yes" in connection with the failure of the button. National Deputy Haydut, please take my vote in favour of draft decrees 10, 19 on the appointment of the Attorney General and 1024 on the appointment of a foreign minister. Please consider my vote "for" draft Decree 1095 on immunity because of the failure of the button, the People's Deputy of the Stick. It's from the people's deputy Ustemenko. Please count my vote for. Question number 1035 to number 1029 because the button didn't work. Please count, from the People's Deputies of Shahov, my vote in favour, the decision to grant an acquittal to the President of the Ukraine of Lucenka, did not work in favour. And the last. From the People's Deputies of Stryharsky: please my vote in favour, the draft Decree 1001, the conduct of the plenary session, the draft Decree 1004, on Decree 1002, on the roll-calling of the transition to the post of Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you. That's all I've read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u580	Thank you, colleagues. I would like to move on to the agenda on how to explain the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 9 summonses. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u581	There are persistent suggestions to read the whole decision. In accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the procedure for reporting the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call is being submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A corresponding decision is given to you. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u582	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Project Decisions. draft Decree on the procedure for reporting the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 1006). Please support and vote. [[02:12:19]] For 277 Thank you, the decision is made. Dear colleagues, the consideration of the agenda for today is complete. Thank you all for your fruitful work. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth occasion will begin its work on Tuesday, September 3, 2019. I declare closed the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m1.u583	Heroic glory! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I thank you all again for our work. God damn it, it's not gonna get any worse.
