ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u1	Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, colleagues. You're ready, aren't you? Please prepare for registration. And please register. Please. [[10:03:36]] There are 290 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleagues. Welcome to Igor Alexandrovich Lapin. Congratulations, my friend, on your birthday, success and victory! [[Applause]] Welcome. And also Vitalia Mikhailovich Chapinoga. Welcome to Mr. Vitaly's birthday. [[Applause]] And, colleagues, this Sunday there was an election in the European Parliament. And in spite of pessimistic predictions, they were won over by political forces that stand for Europe's unity and support Ukraine's opposition to Russia. We welcome our European allies to these elections. I would like to personally welcome our friends and political partners — Christian Democrats — who won the European elections in Lithuania, led by Andrews Kubillolus, our personal friend and great friend of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that Mr. Kubillus is actually the author of a new European plan for Ukraine, a large-scale financial aid programme for our state. Welcome to our partners, colleagues, and let's get to work. I want to remind you that today we have two key blocks: a block of social policy issues and a block of local self-government issues. And I, colleagues, have great requests to concentrate on issues of local self-government. The reform of local self-government is one of the most successful reforms in previous years. And it is very important for us today to be able to allow our decisions to continue and end this reform. And so I'm asking for maximum concentration in the hall, and I also want to remind you that in the last days, there have been many references to Bill 9438 to ensure that criminal legislation is harmonised with international law. It stands in the passage, and it will also be important for us to be able to consider and make a positive decision on this law today. But we begin our day with presentations by authorized representatives of MP factions and groups. And I'm asking the factions and groups to record for the discussion. Please. From the "will of the people" to the performance is invited by Labazuk Sergey Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people, the country continues to be an arena of political struggle, and political commitment to elections often triumphs over common sense. Efforts to please voters who have experienced the burden of the economic situation over the years and the stormy tariffs on the station have led to extremely dangerous situations. Today, Ukrainians are trying to convince us that defolt is good. The Jacobs of Greece, Argentina, will once succeed, and Ukraine will succeed. In 2015, we were able to maintain stability and protect the state from the default, the collapse of the economy, and preserve a key international reputation that is so important to business. All these achievements can be burned in two seconds. The world is changing. The latest elections to the European Parliament show that populism can win. And today, right and populistic parties are intensifying their influence. And that means that not in the distant future, we can lose the support of our partners and be left alone with our problems, which, unfortunately, are getting more and more with each day. Therefore, despite political turbulence, Ukraine must pursue predictable and consistent policies at all levels. Therefore, when we make our statements publicly, we must remember that not only are they heard by society but they are heard by the whole world. I am convinced that today Parliament must focus on the issues that society expects us to address. And we have repeatedly stated from these rostrums that we will follow the will of the people. So today one of these issues is the removal of parliamentary immunity. This subject has been in Parliament for more than a year. If I'm not mistaken, since the 1990s, politicians have been talking about the fact that the MP's immunity will be reversed, but putting a fat dot on the issue has never been successful. Most claimed, said, but it didn't work. This week, we have to take a major step in this direction and vote in favour of lifting the parliamentary immunity and making sure that all citizens are equal before the law. In Ukraine there can be no one above the law. At the same time, we need to be considerate and realize that political integrity must be, to remain so that MPs do not become manuals and to carry out tasks that their leaders do not assign to Parliamentarians. Colleagues, no less important and pressing issue today, we have. Thursday, a long - awaited agrarian block is scheduled to be held, which was repeatedly held but did not result in a vote. Without exaggeration, agrarian issues are important today. They're worked by the committee, by the profile associations, we've discussed them not once in the session room. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, I am very much asking that we honor those colleagues who speak from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Can you please be quiet in the hall? That's the right thing to do. Please, 30 seconds. 30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u4	And don't put it in a long box. Convincedly, we have to give green light to these bills. And today, agrarians are expecting the adoption of Bill 8121, which is an anti-trade bill that will enable them to work and develop small and medium-sized enterprises. Number 7526-d for co-operation; number 9022 for the identification and registration of animals.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u5	Thank you, Sir Sergei, thank you. Colleagues, once again, I call for mutual validity and silence in the hall. And the word is from Alexander Wilkul's Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u6	Dear people of Ukraine! I want to take a second look at the questions I raised on the Conciliation Council yesterday. According to a report by the World Bank, it takes 50 years to catch up with the current situation in Poland. But we're moving in the wrong direction, and every day it gets worse and worse. What should we do? And today this initiative should be taken by the newly elected President, who we have very high expectations for, in all very high expectations. The first is peace, to stop the war. Stop the Donbas blockade first, both transport and energy and economic, and, above all, humanitarian. Donbasu's blockade was imposed by an order from the President, President Poroshenko, who represented a gang that robbed people and profited from war. So technically, the Donbas blockade can be lifted by President Greensky's decree, and he has to do it if he wants peace, that's the first. The other one. Going into direct negotiations with the Russian Federation, because we understand that this is the only real way to end the war, to exchange prisoners for everyone, without exception. We have prepared all the necessary laws for the implementation of the mine conditions, 11 bills, and these bills must now be considered in Parliament, because this is what the people of Ukraine need. The second, very important question is lowering, finally lowering municipal tariffs. The tariffs were raised by a government decree. So technically, in order to lower tariffs, President Zelenski doesn't need a government and doesn't need a parliament, and he doesn't need a majority. By his decree, he can cancel the government’s decree and lower municipal tariffs. And he'll be applauded by the whole of Ukraine, I'm sure he'll be applauded by the entire hall. And I think he should do it. Third. We need to get out of external control. To look at the conditions of cooperation with the IMF, which, who says the land needs to be sold, these reforms, which are actually genocidal social experiments. And if not, have the courage to refuse to cooperate on these humiliating conditions, to examine the economic situation of the association with the European Union, which prevents us from entering European markets. And there are also a lot of decisions that we can make now in the parliamentary elections, we expect this from the President, we're ready to consider and vote on these bills. And I'm talking to all the politicians. Stop thinking about your ratings.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u7	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u8	And I'm talking to all the politicians. We need to think about people, Ukraine, and not just our ratings before the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, Victor Bondar is invited to introduce the rebirth group. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u10	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, of course, I think the most important issue that concerns people, the whole country is hearing about, all the factions' leaders have been talking about for eight months, is the question of tariffs. Eight months, as this shameful increase in tariffs took place, and eight months, as the Supreme Council does not wish or put to the vote a draft decree signed by eight faction leaders to abolish these looting tariffs. Today, there is a unique opportunity to resolve this issue. Today, people expect us to be able to resolve the matter. Moreover, the external environment of the world gas market helps us, Ukraine, to review these tariffs. If the government had previously told us that this was impossible, the price of the European Habi to buy gas for Ukraine was $300-320 per thousand cubic meters, then I want to let you know from this high rostrum that the last months in Europe have gone completely different. In the Netherlands, gas is now traded at $160 per thousand cubic metres, twice the cost of Ukraine’s purchase. In the UK, gas is traded at $140 per thousand cubic meter. And Ukraine continues to buy $300-320 per thousand cubic metres. That's an absolutely inadequate price. And the absolute inactivity of the government causes us to double, or triple, to overpay for gas today in Ukraine. I'm talking to the government. It's time to submit a bill on budget changes and help Naftogazu Ukraine find funds for urgent gas purchases in Europe on European hubs. Experts say that during the summer, by August and September, the price of European gas will be high. It could even be $120-130 per thousand cubic meters, it's three times cheaper than Ukraine is buying today. Such a situation requires that gas be stored for the next few years and that the gas depots of Ukraine be fully installed. We have the opportunity to attach 31 billion cubic meters of gas and provide ourselves with 2-3 three years of cheap gas and three times the price of gas. It's an absolute normal economic proposition. The government has to include brains and make these proposals for budget changes and the help of Naftogazu for this purchase. We understand that the North Stream will be launched since 2020. This suggests that Ukraine may lose any Russian gas, no transit gas at all. Therefore, the mind should include farsightedness, including a government that should make these proposals, not expect them from us. That's why we're proposing to vote on the draft Anti-Trafficking Regulation. And the second. Changes to the budget that will allow Naftogazu to buy immediately the European gas, which is now twice today, and will soon be three times as cheap as Ukraine buys. And this is going to be a logical action, and people will appreciate that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u11	Thank you. Please welcome the head of the Radical Party faction Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u12	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Ukrainian society is deeply concerned about the threat of the pro-Russian rematch and the diletarian economic and legal chaos that the country is experiencing today. President Zelenski's initiatives on the referendum on friendship with Russia, the stubborn ignoring of the Green Ukrainian language during public speeches, the scandalous and incompetent recruitment of Green people by Yanukovic, Azarov, Poshenka are all signs of rematch. That's why we're asking President Green to give clear answers to society, to the citizens, to the following questions: what will happen to the Language Act, is it going to cancel it, what will be with the extension in the next Parliament of a special status for Donbas and the amnesty of militants, which will be with the Ukrainian land that Zelensky wants to sell to foreigners, depriving Ukrainian peasants? We demand that President Greensky cancel his scandalous job as business partners and the environment, as he did, for example, now Dustenka is doing, and continue to abide by the law in the next human resources decision. Parliament must do what it has promised, but Zelenski himself is afraid to do: pass the law on impeachment and the interim commission of inquiry, the law on open electoral lists, the annulment of the integrity of the President, the deputies and the judges (the law should be one for all), the adoption of amendments to the Constitution to reduce the number of members of the Supreme Council to 250. To win over poverty, we demand that Greens cancel the government's decision to raise gas prices, review the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, review the budget, raise wages and pensions for Ukrainians. President Zelensky is obliged to give the Ukrainians an answer on how to live for the next five years to ensure that the economy and income of the citizens grow. I appeal to all Ukrainians, citizens, people of good will, to all democratic, patriotic forces to unite and protect Ukraine from the rematch of the pro-Russian forces and the diletarian chaos for which every Ukrainian will pay. I warn you: Ukraine is in great danger. We're all supposed to protect Ukraine together.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u13	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. And he's invited to the floor. Julia Timoshenko, head of the Fatherland faction, is invited to attend. Please, Mrs. Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u14	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Supreme Council of this call has remained to work for a little more than two months. It's almost nothing. But these two months are different from all of the previous months just because every deputy in this room has to go to the people and look into the eyes of the people who for five years have given everyone who works in this room the right to speak, the right to defend the interests of the country and every citizen. I think today's top council rating, which doesn't exceed one, one percent, is saying that five years, unfortunately for people, has not been successful, and this office of the Supreme Council has failed the mission that people have expected of it, namely, to make people happy and make the country a success. And that's why these two months can't be wasted again completely without any result. And that's why we're proposing that these two months of the Supreme Council start working differently. First. You and I have a budgetary process that has not even begun because of political chaos. We don't have the required documents, we don't discuss macro indicators, we don't discuss monetary policy. After all political chaos and intrigue, the country was forgotten. And so the first thing we can do with you as a deputy to this call is to put together a special team that consists of faction deputies or better leaders, government, new president and his team, and to scrutinize the concept of the budget for the development of the country and for the benefit of the normal lives of the people. If a budget is adopted in the same concept that has worked so far, people will receive neither protection nor wages nor pensions — nothing. And the second. You know, the price of gas in the world is falling very fast. Now we're buying 300-320, and already the world in Europe is selling 160 habak, two months from now it's going to be 120, and we're still left with the abuse of people. Parliament can perform its function without prejudice to anyone, and immediately consider this issue and lower prices for gas, heat and hot water. We can do something for people. Let us be alert and not adopt lobbying laws instead of serving others. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u15	Thank you. Please welcome the head of the European Solidarity faction. Please, Arthur Gerasimov, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I made a mistake. I said, "Peter Duster's Block." It was a mistake. I would very much ask the front row, one of the factions without emotion. Without emotion to correct the presiding officer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u16	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! During the days, one of the world’s most influential financial publications published an interview with Igor Kolomoyski, in which he called for Ukraine’s default. For the first time in five years, neither our key foreign allies, nor the international financial environment, nor investors can call Ukraine a reliable and predictable partner, where to invest safely, since everyone knows about the impact of the oligarch on President Zelenski. Defolt means a deep financial crisis with the loss of national currency, the huge losses of entrepreneurs, the mass impoverishment of the people, the loss of international trust and support, and the foreign and not only investor will leave Ukraine. Each state after the default spends years restoring the economy and takes decades to regain the trust of investors, creditors, and international societies. What's more risky is the default during an external Russian aggression. First of all, it can result in the cessation of stable military funding, which is already a direct threat to the existence of an independent Ukraine. Let me remind you that over the last five years, Peter Dustenck’s team has made an effort not to allow the default in the most difficult years of independence and have managed not only to prevent this but also to bring the economy back to the path of growth. In today’s circumstances, the Ukrainian people and international partners should hear the clear position of Vladimir Zelenski himself on the claim of Igor Kolomojski on defolt. Next. Last Saturday, Ukrainian diplomacy won the victory over an aggressor at the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea. An independent court upheld Ukraine’s claim and obliged the Russian Federation to immediately release Ukrainian sailors captured near the Kerchen Strait six months ago. The ruling of the Tribunal has proven once and for all the loyalty of President Peter Prashenko's political and diplomatic strategy, which he used to protect Ukraine's national interests. On this background, criminal persecution against Peter Dustenk appears particularly cynical, especially in the Kerchny Strait. The old fugitive politicians, who returned after Vladimir Zelensky's victory, are now seeking revenge for five years of exile and are trying to bring Ukraine back to orbit in Moscow. At the same time, recent elections to the European Parliament have shown that the Kremlin’s scenarios do not work when they are opposed to a united society. The victory of the European People's Party, with which our political power is working closely, gives us a chance to make Ukraine's course of membership in the European Union and NATO irreversible. It is for the protection of the pro-European choice of the Ukrainian people that the team of Peter Poroshenko "European Solidarity" is going to the next term's election. The new name is offered to the public and fully reflects the ideology of the party. It is Peter Poroshenko who has done the most to integrate Ukraine into the European Union and NATO, so the democratic forces that exercise the same vision of our nation's development must join us to consolidate the votes of the electorate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u17	Thank you for representing the Peter Dust Block "Solidarity." And the last performance. Please, Maxim Burbak, People's Front faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, defult is the word again in Ukraine. They're trying to talk about our nation as a potential bankruptcy. Defult is presented as an obvious necessity, like the inevitability that Ukrainians are offered to accept. It is now the year 2019, when the economy, thanks to the efforts of postmechanical governments, is demonstrating positive dynamics. Five years ago, the Yanukovitch gang robbed the country and heeled Rostov, Russia attacked Ukraine, occupied Crimea, and set fire to the east of Ukraine — that is, when the country stood on the verge of a deflation. In 2014, Prime Minister Arseny Yatzenuk made his famous statement: "Argentina declared defolt, Ukraine has not announced it or announced it." At that time, the treasury account contained 108 thousand dollars, 73 billion dollars in debts that had been received by Arsenija Yatsenyuk from previous prime ministers. When Arsenius Yatzenuk left his post, he left $90 billion in cash and reduced his debts by $7 billion. The prime minister carried out restructuring, wrote off some of his debts and stopped the default because the default is the bankruptcy of Ukraine and every citizen. It's not just giving up the Ukrainian state's debt, it's a defultt, it's a bottomless decline in the currency exchange rate, it's inflation over 10,000 percent in the 1990s, it's unemployment, it's a clinical death of the economy. Then Prime Minister Arsenius Yatzenuk refused to allow it. The government has professional decisions to prevent the bankruptcy of the country, not to provoke defolt states. That's why the People's Front, together with our leader, is calling on President Greensky to form his economic agenda and cooperation program with the International Monetary Fund. What do we have today? The unconstitutional decree on the dissolution of parliament, the government in resignation, the programme of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund is de facto suspended, and the new programme can only appear after unconstitutional term elections and the formation of a new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is, at best, at the end of 2019. The People's Front asks the newly elected president's team: how are you going to ensure the growth of the economy and the income of Ukrainian citizens? We remind you, along with authority, seals, portfolios and offices, political responsibility for the country comes. That's why we insist on presenting a clear economic programme for stability and development, an expanded plan for strengthening the country instead of talking about defult. Finally. Election campaign is underway. The country is living in an unconstitutional electoral process. The order to dissolve Parliament and the temporary elections, our team is suing the Constitutional Court. The arguments of the People's Front are strictly legal. We urge the judges of the Constitutional Court not to allow pressure on themselves. This was already in the history of Ukraine, when the Constitutional Court changed the Constitution of Ukraine without the will of Parliament and the people, this decision became a harbinger of the Dignity Revolution. Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u19	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u20	When people went out to the country to defend their rights, honor and freedom. The decision of the COP must be based on only one principle: the rule of law, not the rule of political ratings. Protecting the Constitution, protecting Ukraine from defolt, protecting parliamentaryism as the foundation of democracy, is the task of state powers in parliament. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction hasn't been able to sign up for the performance, so the final performance is not from Mr. Burbak. It's from Self-Help. Please, Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u22	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. In December 2014, when the Coalition Agreement "European Ukraine" was signed, the five factions that are still in this session hall made a commitment to change the electoral model, eliminate the majority and open the lists, and form the next parliament on a proportional basis with open lists. As long as no one believed that it would be possible to do so, the working group prepared the Electoral Code for the final edition. Self-help responded very responsibly, and our efforts, along with those colleagues who also worked, at the beginning of this year the Electoral Code was prepared for second reading. What do we hear now? We're going to hear: 4.5,000 amendments we're not going to consider. My colleagues, there are no 4,000 amendments. There are four and a half thousand amendments. There's a finalized text that can be taken to the session room tomorrow. If anyone wants to talk here, there were 43 working group meetings that lasted a year and a half, not now that the cadence of this Parliament is ending and there are days left before the promises we made to our voters are fulfilled. There's nothing to do with demagogies, but we need to put out and vote on what's being prepared. It was not a closed working group, where some national deputies worked behind closed doors. We were closely watched by the public. An organization like OPRORA, IFES, the HONEST Movement, the Organization for the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, other social organizations. Such open work. With such open work, few can take refuge in this calling. All the troubles that this House has failed to accomplish are due to the imperfections of the electoral system in which it is formed. Most of all, I find that the best majors who are in this session hall are doing the same thing for the introduction of open lists. So we stop discussing, we stop distributing demagogies, we make decisions with the committee, we bring them to the session room. And we have to end up putting a dot and show that the Supreme Council is given, even though in the most plausible things it's capable of making those promises that it made almost five years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out to you, Ruslan, that yesterday I gave the commission to the committee to meet immediately. You're a member of the committee, and I'm asking you to do the best you can to get the committee to work out on Wednesday. Tomorrow we will not be able to consider without a committee decision. If you have political will, gather a committee today. Because I can't believe the self-help representative is calling on the Ukrainian Parliament to break the Rules, the law of Ukraine. I can't believe it. Only with the committee's decision can there be a hearing. That's why I invite you to come to the committee on Wednesday. And immediately, I stress, I will immediately put the Electoral Codex with open lists to be considered. And I am convinced, and I believe that we will be able to share it with all of us and unite. We're for open lists and against closed lists. So, colleagues, the factions are finished. And we're moving on to the agenda. My colleagues, I remind you, last plenary week we finished our consideration. They didn't finish, a. The draft Law 6447 was not completed. And we have a unique situation. As we considered the law, the Constitutional Court adopted a decision that actually renders the law irrelevant. So my request is to complete it very quickly, very quickly, so that we can move on to social and local self-government issues. So I'm announcing the continuation of the draft Act amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct. We have a statement from the committee now, then six minutes from the deputies. Let us vote and move on to the following questions. Agreed? Agreed. And I invite the chairman of the committee on legal policy and justice, Alexeiev Igor Sergiyovich. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u24	Good day, dear fellows, the honourable presiding officer! In order to carry out your mission, we have considered the request of the Head of the Constitutional Court on this matter. And there's the following information. On May 16, 2019, we began to consider the bill under registration number 6447, which envisaged amendments to article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Executive Conduct. I'm not going to repeat the essence of change, but the principle thing. So the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the Constitutional Complaint of a citizen on 15 May 2019 to take part in the second article 26 of the Ukrainian Act "On Executive Conduct" declared unconstitutional is no longer valid as of the date of approval by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court’s decision is binding, final, and unaccusable. In view of the situation, we believe that the bill has lost its relevance. So please remove it from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u25	Thank you, colleagues. Therefore, under the Rules, we must complete the procedure and put it to a vote. But I understand the committee's calling for it to be rejected simply, right? So let's take six minutes -- statements from deputies, six minutes, and we make decisions. Please hold the recording. The two deputies will speak very briefly so that we can effectively consider other laws. Please hold the recording. Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, this issue was relevant in the 17th year. So personally, in order to protect the local authorities, I registered the legislative initiative. Well, I'm very grateful to the Constitutional Court, which has made the only right legal decision, and has freed the local self-government from advance payments on executive conduct. Since 2014, when the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers was signed on April 1st by the government of Arsenija Yatsenuk and the reform of the decentralization of power, the faction of the People's Front, I personally as a deputy in the 204th constituency, have done everything to ensure that local self-government authorities are given new opportunities, are given new powers and are also given responsibility. And we see that the reform of the decentralization of power in Ukraine is one of the brightest reforms that was initiated by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk and is being implemented now. And so you and I in this session room have to do everything we can to support local self - government, because it has believed in us. A little example. The Sokirian united territorial community. In the 15th year, when they decided to unite, contrary to the position of local authorities, the community budget was about 7 million dollars. Last month, I was on a report by the head of the Sokirian United Territorial Society, who reported that the community budget in 2018 was 63 million dollars. These are simple figures that confirm that the reform of the decentralization of power and the voluntary creation of united territorial communities was accepted by the local government, the citizens, and the communities were given a powerful boost for their development. See how many new infrastructures have been built in small villages and cities. And this is our report that we, as members of the People's Front faction, have begun to reform decentralization, implement it and support it. As a result, there are many bills in the agenda today. One of them is about serving in local self-government. And I urge the entire room, all my colleagues to gather and today vote on such a necessary local self-government bill. Now you're all going to the elections and you're going to ask communities and voters to vote for you. And today's vote, and the support of decentralization, and the support of local self-governance bodies will be the best thing to do for you. Because people are watching you, watching and analyzing everything that is being done and done. And so when I go to the voters, I want them to understand and remember that those deputies who have done their jobs that have supported the communities also need your support. So I agree with the committee's decision that the bill should be withdrawn because it has lost its relevance. But still.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u27	Thank you. And the closing act is Kishkar. And let's move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u28	In fact, it's very strange that we're going into a process of discussion that doesn't require any more than a decision of the Constitutional Court, an explanation, an interpretation. Please keep all your colleagues in the voting and move on to the next issue of the agenda. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u29	Thank you for the brief presentation. We still have two minutes left for Rybkin. Turn on the microphone. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u30	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. Dear colleagues, I'm quite surprised that we're starting our consideration of the drafts to be taken. I understand that the Supreme Council should work as a filter by adopting and not adopting bills. But when the Supreme Council has two months left to work, to put bills in place to reject them, they will automatically lose their relevance in two months. So let's move on to better, better laws. We have bills both on temporary investigation committees and after the tariffs have been reduced and so on. Let's go, as Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko said, Parliament should go beautifully. Let's go out nice and not just take time to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u31	If you had followed closely the legislative work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, you would have known that this bill had not been passed today, it had remained from the previous plenary week. And during this break, there was a decision by the Constitutional Court. To do this, we need to be vigilant and watch over the work of the highest legislative body in Ukraine. Thank you, colleagues. So let's move on to making a decision. I will remind you, in connection with the Constitutional Court’s decision, the Committee requests that the bill be retained. And I'm asking everyone to take their jobs, come into the hall. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Executive Conduct on the Liberation of Local Self-Government Authorities from Payments of the Contribution to the Implementation of the Committee's Proposal on the Basis. But the committee asked him to be rejected. Vote please, colleagues. Vote. [[10:44:33]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Thus, draft Law 6447 was rejected, as requested by the committee. So, colleagues, now I'm asking you all to gather around. And we are moving on to the next issue of the agenda: this is the draft Act amending certain legislation in Ukraine to regulate the implementation of the right to additional leave for participants in hostilities and persons with disabilities as a result of war (9400). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please, colleagues, to support us to move quickly, effectively to issues of local self-government, to vote, to support. Colleagues, we're in favour of a simplified procedure. [[10:45:29]] For-92 So there's no coalition, have you forgotten or what? We're all coalitions, colleagues. Colleagues, please gather, do not light interfractional hostility in the hall, we must gather. I remind you, colleagues, the next Sergeant's Composition Act, the unification of names in the Ukrainian Army and NATO, then the block of local self-government, a colleague. I'm calling everyone to a dynamic job. I'm asking them to take jobs. If we go into full procedure, we won't be able to look at a full block of local self-government. So, colleagues, I would like everyone to support the proposal that the draft Law 9400 on the settlement of the question of the implementation of the right to additional leave for participants in hostilities and persons with disabilities should be considered by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. We're supporting, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:46:50]] For 112 Guys, I'll put it back on. The factions, please. Peter Poshenko Block – 39, People's Front – 40, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 7, Radical Party – 1, Fatherland – 8, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 1. What's the strategic plan, tell me? For me, there is no difficulty in letting go, but it will mean that we will come up with the following issues of the agenda, including local self - government, very late. I don't know what the authors are up to right now. I ask all those who have not voted to support this proposal: both the will of the people, and the Rebirth, and the block of Peter Poroshenko, and the Radical Party. Are you ready to support me? I'm putting a motion to vote for the draft Law 9400 to be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[10:48:17]] For-138 Potential is powerful, of course. Let's see the factions. I was approached by national deputies who were unable to vote, and I will put it again. And I urge everyone, colleagues, to support us, because we have a day-to-day order that is complex. And we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't. And the same situation will be in other days, we need to be supportive of each other. Colleagues, take your jobs, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. I ask everyone to take part in the vote, leave the bed to the government and go into the hall. And I'm asking you to support everyone. You're ready, aren't you? Please, I would like to put to the vote the proposal that the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of the question of the implementation of the right to additional leave for participants in hostilities and persons with disabilities as a result of the war should be considered in the summary procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, support! Vote! If you'll excuse me, I'd like everyone to take part in the vote. Please be supportive. [[10:50:01]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Social Policy of Churkin Alexander Igorovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u32	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! The purpose of drafting and implementing the draft law is to ensure that the right to additional leave is exercised for participants in hostilities and persons with disabilities as a result of war. The adoption of an act will allow us to settle on a legislative level the issue of sources of funding for such additional leave. The status is defined by the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. The draft act currently proposes a series of corresponding amendments to article 23 of the Ukrainian Vacation Act, which provides for the payment of leave to individual categories of war veterans at the expense of the companies assigned to pay for their work. The bill also proposes to amend the Code of Laws on Ukraine's work, namely to replace the words "retirement with pay", to replace the words "paid leave". The bill is in agreement with the Federal Representative Body of National Trade Unions, the Confederation of Ukrainian Employers, and the Joint Representative of National Employers. The bill is also supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s professional committees. Please support the bill, because the adoption of this act will be regulated at the legislative level on the issue of financial security for guaranteed leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u33	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pension Insurance, Kaplin Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u34	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement Services considered the bill at its meeting on May 15, 2019, and recommended its adoption as a basis. At the same time, I would like to pay attention to the presence of officials of the Ministry of Social Policy and to note why, over the course of the year, two years, you have not submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine such bills as the expansion of the single social contribution base? Because of the unchangeable legislation today, such as Kobolev, directors of large corporations, pay only 55,000 social contributions and a simple worker from the body of their salaries. Ukraine’s Pension Fund then lacks some 12 billion dollars. Why don't you finally decommunize the order for determining the living minimum that was formed back in the '50s and is today irrelevant, so we can't raise pensions, raise wages? Why don't you narrow down the difference between the salaries of officials as the director of Crushing, Crushing, other state-owned enterprises and simple workers? This difference is now one to two hundred. There are no more in the world than one to 30-35. Why don't you give the Pension Fund a single social contribution, and that's why we're losing about 9 billion dollars with you? And finally, we'd like to hear from you the social component of the future budget, the concept of the future budget. Will you comply with the requirement of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is clearly recorded in article 1: "Ukraine is a social state"? Will you again be on the hilltop of the common people, the simple pensioners, building a corrupt budget? And after all, when will Minister of Social Policy Reva resign? I've sent him away twice on my own on the committee. The entire Supreme Council of Ukraine is voting for this. It's a disgrace to social politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u35	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From the People's Front, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u36	The People's Front faction will only support this bill as a basis, and I want to explain why. Under articles 12, 13 of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantees Their Social Protection, which proposes to remove from them the rules on the granting to participants of hostilities, persons with disabilities as a result of war and injured participants in the Revolution of the Dignity of the Right to Additional Vacation, with the retention of salary for 14 calendar days per year. Such a rule will remain only in the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine and in the Law on Vacations. And we strongly disagree with the expulsion from the War Veterans Status Act, the guarantee of their social protection, of the rules on the right of war veterans to additional leave. The same position of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, and so in the second reading, we need to keep the law on the status of war veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, on the right of war veterans to additional leave. So we have to remove paragraph 1, paragraph 2, from this bill, and then we can vote on it as a whole, but that's when we're working on it. So once again, the People's Front faction will support this bill as a basis, and then we'll work on the second reading and we'll accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u37	Thank you. And I remind you that the committee only asks for a basis. Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u38	I wanted to take this opportunity to once again stop at the human resources policy of the Ministry of Social Policy. Look, we have this institution in the block, the socio-economic block of government, like the Employment Center. For you to understand, this is a key body that should have provided our young people with jobless jobs. And today, thanks to quality administration, quality professional work, you can do this. Instead, for the third time in a row, dear friends, the third time the manager of this center is working in handcuffs, stealing millions of dollars to go to a job finder’s office. We have the Ministry of Social Policy, which is located (now perhaps someone does not know) on the 20th floor. On the 20th floor! I once incognito came there, I didn't warn the minister, I walked around the office. In each office, 90 percent of so - called workers play cards. They play cards by eating through the state budget. Third. There is a program of modernizing social policy in our country. Loaned to international financial institutions (now consider the figure) 300 million euros. The Court of Auditors, along with the Social Policy Committee, conducted a thorough investigation into where the money was being shared. There the prison weeps, as a minimum, for two or three deputy ministers and for the minister of social policy. 300 million euros is the kind of money that was going to go to modernize the entire pension system, the social protection system, they were just spent in an untargeted way. And this is going to be translated into the hill of a simple Ukrainian. So I'm calling the Attorney General's attention, I'm drawing the attention of the D.B.I., the N.A.U.U., to conducting a complex investigation, what's going on in our state's social policy sector, and what the minister is doing there.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u39	Thank you. Korchinska Oksana Anatoliyevna Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u40	Praise Jesus Christ! 40 minutes ago, a 265 military officer was wounded under Mariupol, starting this year. 265 wounded in the war. Of these, 58 are volunteer boys who went to continue serving in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. This Supreme Council owed them a law on volunteers, five laws we have not yet voted on, five bills have been in force since 2014. Among the wounded 17 are foreigners. Four days ago, he was well-known on the front of a former volunteer, a fighter of the 25th Kyiv Russia Volunteer Battalion, now in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Stanislaw Gibadulin. He had a traumatic amputation of the limb, four days ago he had severed his lower spleen. My leg. He's already turned to an active new president: give me citizenship. Honourable deputies, six months ago, you voted in favour of Bill 3433 in the first reading on the payment of Ukrainian citizenship to those protecting our Ukraine. Why do we still not have a second reading in the daytime to those people who are really cooler and better in Ukraine than the part in this room, which is in the President's Administration and in the Cabinet? I'm sorry, it's our debt to people who protect the Fatherland. 3433 and the law on volunteers. And this bill really needs to be supported with a few rights. Our military personnel in the area of operations of the United Nations deserve additional leave. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u41	So, dear colleagues, there will be a vote in three minutes. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. Please come into the hall, take up jobs. It is the social support of Ukrainian military and military personnel who have been disabled as a result of hostilities. And so I ask everyone to be responsible during this vote. Now, from Fatherland, I give the floor to Alona Ivanovni's Shkrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u42	Alona Ivanovna's Scrum, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, what's this bill about? It's simple enough. This bill tells us that we have a regular vacation, called 24 calendar days, and it proposes to give an additional vacation every 14 days to those who may actually need it. These are also those who suffered during the Dignity Revolution and those who participated in the fighting that got disabled and disabled, and those with disabilities who got disabled just as a result of the war and as a result of the fighting and aggression of the Russian Federation. Questions only in the implementation of these, absolutely correct positions. Because, colleagues, we can't afford to accept and discuss any more of the declaratory rules, the declarative bills that provide for absolutely the right things, but don't anticipate money to make these absolutely right things happen. And for today, I would like to ask the Minister of Social Policy and the Ministry of Social Policy, which this bill is introducing, which unfortunately makes it declarative. It's actually about 368,000 people today -- that's the status of a participant in combat, of which it is. And 1 million people who are disabled by war, by war or by fighting. Of these, 320,000 have received such a participant in fact over the last 3 to 4 years. There are also people who have been disabled as a result of the Dignity and Maidan Revolution. And all of these people will have the right to a declaratory extra 14-day leave, but they won't have the government budget or local budgets for this vacation. So there's no money again, and relying on the need to finance these 14 days of extra leave, the absolutely right step, will be on business, on the individuals who are entrepreneurs, and on the people who employ these almost 500,000 people who will be entitled to this extra vacation. Fatherland can't back up the declaratory laws. We will certainly vote in the first reading, but we will work out the second reading rights so that this burden and payment of this leave will be placed either on local or state budgets, otherwise.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u43	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u44	Otherwise it will be a declaration that will not make any sense, and we need not simulate reforms, not declare the right things, but concrete actions and policies of action at last. That is why we vote and correct it in our second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u45	Thank you. Colleagues, I ask you not to leave the hall, but, rather, to enter the hall. I ask the factions to invite the people to the hall as much as possible. A group of deputies just left the hall. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Another minute from the non-factions is Kishkar. And let me remind you, we're just taking it for granted. And in a minute of voting. Please come from the beds, from the towers to the hall. Please, Mr. Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u46	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, in support of Mrs. Helen, I agree that we can achieve a reverse effect, because now whoever takes part in the fighting will ask, "Mr. Fighter, what do you want, 14 more to pay you? So you want 45 of your own by law plus 14? Why don't you guys just go on and on and on and on and on and on and on? You're a good worker. Why don't you write me a public statement that you're giving up these things? Or let's say you're not part of the fighting." That is, we can achieve a completely counterproductive effect if we translate such an obligation from the payment of this additional vacation to the business. The business will think and count, because it has this money to earn somewhere to pay the participant an extra 14 days that he won't spend at work. So very carefully, Madam Deputy Minister, such bills need to be submitted for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u47	Thank you. But I understand you support it, right? Do you support the first one? Yes, on the ground. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Everyone please take up their jobs. Please return to the hall. Colleagues in bed! Mustafa! Yegor, back to the hall. It's about our wounded fighters both on the front and in Maidan and their social support. So I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace. This is the support of people who have suffered during the aggression and who have suffered in Maidan. And so everyone's vote is going to be extremely important. So we're moving on to making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of the question of the implementation of the right to additional leave for participants in hostilities and persons with disabilities as a result of war (No. 9400) on the proposal of a committee of destitute persons. Please vote, please support. Based on the base. We'll support the Ukrainian soldiers. Please vote on the basis. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing it up. Careful, responsible, every voice. Vote. [[11:07:03]] For 185 We didn't make it. I see my colleagues have not arrived. I'll be right back. I'd like to see who's not in the hall and invite you. I'll call the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 62, People's Front – 53, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 12, Radical Party – 15, Father's Party – 11, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 4 and non-fractional – 25. Colleagues, I'll put you back. And if there are no votes, the bill will be rejected, but this is an example of us supporting our fighters on air, and when it comes to voting and supporting them by law, everyone has much more important political issues -- everyone in the election. Our work here is in the workplace. So I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, take part in the vote, go into the hall. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 9400 on additional leave for participants in hostilities and persons with disabilities as a result of war. Please vote. Please support the return to the law. Colleagues, every voice, we vote carefully. Careful and responsible. Vote. Valérie, we're voting, then you'll be collecting signatures. [[11:08:49]] For a hundred and I'll do it again. I see the people's deputies are coming along. I'll call the factions again. Peter Poshenko's Block – 64, People's Front – 50, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 14, Radical Party – 18, Father's Party – 11, Will of the People – 5, Rebirth Party – 3, non-fractional – 29. My colleagues, I'm going to put it again, but I have a feeling that you just don't feel and understand the responsibility of this vote. Many simply debate the voting rather than vote. I'm asking you to return to the hall. Mr. Valérie, your honor, I'll put it to the vote again. Take up jobs. So, colleagues, that's just the basis. All will be able to bring nuances between the first and the second readings. You're ready, aren't you? I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote in favour of the draft Law on additional leave for participants in hostilities and persons with disabilities. Please vote for everyone, and I ask your support. Shahov, come back! Why are you going now, we're voting? Please come back. So, colleagues, for your return, I ask you to vote every vote. Please be supportive. We vote responsibly. We support our fighters and our soldiers. We vote, we support the return. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:11:10]] For-191 Unfortunately, I have to announce that the draft Law 9400 has been rejected. And, colleagues, next. Now I'm putting a second proposal on the committee for further work. Colleagues, I ask you to support the draft of Law 9400, a project, to return to the committee for a second reading. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:11:52]] For-188. And the final one is to get the subject of the legislative initiative back to work. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:12:13]] For 185 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u48	I've called the factions a few times. The factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 63, People's Front – 44, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 14, Radical Party – 18, Fatherland – 10, Will of the People – 5, Rebirth Party – 4. So, colleagues, the bill is rejected. I'll bet the next one on the rating vote. So we have the next draft of the Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (for military service and military service) (10181). And I'm putting him on a rating vote. I'm asking the next question: rating vote. And please carefully take part in the vote. So 10181, the rating vote. Please vote, please support. [[11:13:34]] For 177 The factions, please. The factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 58, People's Front – 46, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 14, Radical Party – 16, Fatherland – 9, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 2. So, colleagues, we're now going to the next chapter, this is a matter of local self-government. And I, my colleagues, will also place it on the rating vote. So I'm asking, by the way, to go into the committee room, because on the Conciliation Board, everyone is very active and they're asking me to set up the agenda. And when it's in the daytime, it turns out that even those who asked for it are not in the hall. So, colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking the following question: a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government (8369) for a rating vote. Please vote, please support. [[11:15:01]] For 171 The factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 53, People's Front – 46, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 14, Radical Party – 15, Father's Party – 9, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 4, non-fractional – 29. Next time, do not turn to me, but to your factions, to be present when considering such important laws. Next. Draft Act on Principles for the Administrative and Territorial System of Ukraine (8051). The rating vote. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:15:51]] For 158. The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, the next draft of the ruling on which the Conciliation Council was urged is that it is necessary to vote in favour of changing and establishing the boundaries of the city of Gorlovka and the region of Bahmut in the Donetsk region. The problem is that people in the village cannot get social assistance because there is no necessary decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm sure there'll be a common decision on this decision to support our people. And I'm announcing the move to the review of Project Order 8576 on changes to the administration of the Donetsk Region, the change and establishment of the borders of the city of Gorlovka and the Bahmut district of the Donetsk Region. Please support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:17:00]] For 158. Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Fedorok Mikol Trochymovic to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u49	Honorary National Deputies, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government discussed at its meeting on September 5, 2018 the draft Decision of the Supreme Council on Changes in the Administrative Terror of the Donetsk Region, the amendment and establishment of the borders of the city of Gorlovka and the Bahmut district of the Donetsk Region. The draft decree proposes to change the border of the Bahmut district of the Donetsk region by increasing its territory by 71.7 hectares of land in the knowledge of the Golmian Village Council of the Gorlov City Council of the Donetsk Region, namely, the village of Gladosov, which includes the village of Gladosov in the membership of the Newlugan Village Council of the Bahmut district of the Donetsk region. The Committee notes that the Ukrainian Parliament, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, is not empowered to include population items in rural councils. In this connection, in paragraph 1 of the draft decision, it is proposed to delete the words “including the village of Gladosov in the membership of the Bologna Rural Council of the district of Bahmut region of Donetsk”. In addition, the committee notes that the village of Gladossov is not within the city of Gorlovka and that the inclusion of the designated settlement within the district of Bahmut will not lead to a change in the borders of Gorlovka. In this connection, in the name and in paragraphs 2-3 of the draft decision, it is proposed that the words “the town of Gorlovka” be deleted. Following a comprehensive discussion, the committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with part three of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the draft Decision on Changes in the Administration of the Donetsk Region, the amendment and establishment of the boundaries of the city of Gorlovka and the Bahmut district of the Donetsk Region, as a whole, taking into account the Committee’s observations. In the event of the adoption of the draft decision, it is generally proposed that a committee be appointed when preparing it for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out its technical and legal work with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u50	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Vitaly Semenovich was a smoker.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to support this bill. And we have about 10 more bills related to the change of borders in connection with the holding of elections in united territorial communities. This bill is primarily related to the fact that part of the territory that entered Gorlovka as a result of military action did not remain in occupied territory, and the people in this village cannot receive appropriate social services because they remained administratively under Gorlovka, which is occupied. So please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u52	Colleagues, who else is going to come out of the factions? Please, Wesselova. Veselova is two minutes. And, colleagues, in two minutes, the vote will take place. I ask you to invite all the deputies into the hall and prepare for the vote. I am convinced that this question will unite the entire room. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. And please, Wesselova, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask you to gather and vote in favour of this decree: to join the village of Gladosov in the area of Bahmut, because this is how the situation is now. People living in a Ukrainian village are forced to receive social assistance, pensions, and medical care as internally displaced persons. So people, without leaving their homes, are displaced. And in order to get a pension and social assistance, they're going to have to cross the collision line through the Mayorian CER. People are now in debt after six months, about November-June 2018, after pensions. People can't get this pension debt because they think they're displaced. So I'm asking everyone to support this decision, to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u54	Thank you. I still have a strong appeal to everyone: go into the hall, stop the discussions, and prepare for the decision. Three minutes later, we're voting, colleagues. I now invite you to the words of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. And I ask everyone to be in the workplace in three minutes, heads of factions!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that in this room we have made dozens of similar decisions, especially in 2014-2015, when we were forced to take into account the very serious fights that were going on in eastern Ukraine, just to help the locals get social benefits from Ukraine. And we've changed the boundaries of cities, villages with you, to reorder them, to allow pensioners, people with special needs, families with small children to get pensions. During these years, and for this we are very grateful that the last year of the United Nations operation, we are grateful for its leadership, the Ukrainian army, has liberated more than two miles [2 km] of Ukrainian land. It sounds like it's about a mile or so, but imagine what it really is. These are real streets, these are houses, these are families that have returned to Ukraine, under Ukrainian jurisdiction. Friends, if we are in this room, and especially the factions that say very much that they support the return of peace to Donbas, we are aware of our responsibility as authorities for bringing people who are now under the Ukrainian flag back to receive social benefits, we must unite now around this vote. I call upon all factions, whatever political positions we take now, to support this decision. It is very important that in May Ukrainian citizens of these freed streets receive not only wages, pensions, social benefits, but also as Ukrainian citizens. Please, let's support this, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u56	So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please return from the government beds and guest beds to the workplace. Colleagues, I'd like to invite everyone to the hall and to the polls. Heads of factions, look who's gone, invite me to the hall, please. Please take up jobs. And I'm putting to the vote a draft regulation on changes in the administration of the Donetsk Region, the change and setting of borders between the city of Gorlovka and the region of Bahmut in the Donetsk Region (8576) for the proposal of the committee to take the basis and overall, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote and please support. Each voice has meaning and each voice has weight. Please vote and please support. Vote. It's the fate of the people, of our citizens, until you can get to your job. [[11:26:01]] For 196 The factions, please. Please come into the hall. The factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 56, People's Front – 46, Opposition Block – 20, Self-Help – 13, Radical Party – 17, Father's Party – 8, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 7. Can you explain what these Ukrainian citizens have done to you that you are depriving them of social assistance today? What have they done to you that your choices are in your head, not the fate of our citizens? I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'll be back in a minute. I'm telling everyone who's not here either. And I'm telling the heads of factions who are responsible for the deputies being in the workplace. So please invite everyone to the hall. On the air, there's huge activity, there's little activity in the room. Look who's not around. Call me, invite me to the hall. And I'm going to vote on the proposal to go back to the review of the Project Order (8576) on changing and establishing the boundaries of the city of Gorlovka and the region of Bahmut. Please vote, please support the return to consideration. We vote, each voice has a weight. Vote carefully, every voice. [[11:27:51]] For 204 I see someone's holding on to it. Fellows, look who's not in the hall, and invite us to the hall. I remind you that according to the Rules I can put on return, and to do so I have to be in the hall. Look who's gone, and invite me to the hall. Show the factions, please. Block of Petra Poshenko – 61, National Front – 47, Opposition Block – 19, Self-help – 13, Radical Party – 16, Fatherland – 8, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 7. I feel like not all of them are voting, colleagues. Why? What is the problem? Colleagues, take up your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u57	"The will of the people," why don't you vote for your salary? These are pensions for those who have now returned to Ukrainian jurisdiction, which is a completely socially important law. We returned to our community, but their social network is tied to Gorlovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u58	Fellows, I would like to stress once again, if there is such a vote, I will be forced to vote for the presence in the Hall and the results will be announced in the Voice of Ukraine. So I'm going to put it back again. I would like to point out once again if I see that there are not enough votes in the room, I will put to the vote the question of the presence of deputies in the hall and publish them in the Voice of Ukraine. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall now, get ready. You don't want to take pictures of who's in the hall? Today, isn't it? Just Friday night? Or should all days be in place when it comes to the fate of citizens? So, colleagues, please take up jobs. They're getting ready, aren't they? I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Order on the Change and Set the Borders of the City of Gorlovka and the Bahmut district of the Donetsk Region (8576), which will enable our citizens to secure social benefits on the line of separation. Please vote and please support. To return. Vote. We're backing it up. Careful, responsible. Every voice. Vote. [[11:30:51]] For 219 Colleagues, I'll put a third, final one. Underlining, third time, final. I stress once again, I'm going to publish the voting data on this law to see what our citizens have to do with the leading Ukrainian national MPs. Don't leave the hall. So, please. A few people have just arrived, please mobilize. On the contrary, come into the hall, not leave the hall. So, take up your jobs, please get ready. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Order amending and establishing the borders of the town of Gorlovka and the district of Bahmut (8576). Please support the return to the draft decision and please vote responsibly, each vote is valid. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, carefully, responsibly. Voting, supporting. Please vote. Vote. [[11:32:21]] For 231 We're back, colleagues. Now I'm voting on draft regulation 8576 as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals. Let's vote, colleagues, while we're in the hall. We're backing up! Vote. We vote yes. Careful! Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:32:48]] For 230 Decisions accepted, colleagues. Hello! And we move on to the next chapter is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Colleagues, we have a high level of mobilization, and we can quickly get into the agenda of the day session. Please take up your jobs, I'll put in one at a time and announce every bill. So the first is the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Citizens' Appeal (for the implementation of the constitutional right of recourse to persons declared ineffective) (10041). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Voting, voting. [[11:33:43]] For 193 The decision is not taken. The following is 10003: draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian State Budget Act on financial support for public associations of veterans (inclusion into the agenda of the daily session). Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:34:19]] For-182 The decision is not taken. Next: a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the settlement of chaplain activities in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other legislation-based military formations in Ukraine. Colleagues, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. We vote for the chaplain service for the Ukrainian chaplains. We support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision making. Vote. [[11:34:59]] For 176 The decision is not taken. Next: Draft Act amending certain legislative acts to improve the legal regulation of fur production in Ukraine (10019, 10019-1, 10019-2). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:35:30.]] For-188. The decision is not taken. Next: Draft Law amending article 121 of the Code on Administrative Violations (to increase liability for breaches of the rules on the use of seatbelts or motorcycles) (10131). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:36:06]] For a hundred and 10004: Draft Act amending article 133-1 of the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Unreasonable Refusal in the Indemnity of Individual Categories of Citizens. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote. [[11:36:41]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The following is 10231: draft Law amending article 87 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on the financing of individual programs and health facilities. For inclusion in the agenda of the session, please vote. [[11:37:15]] For 196 The decision is not taken. Next: Draft Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Celebration of Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2019 (10295). Colleagues, cultural issues have always brought us together. Let's support the draft decision, the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Voting, supporting. Vote. [[11:38:00]] For-198 Next: Draft Act amending article 9-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Alternative Sources of Energy and the Final and Transitional Provisions Act of Ukraine "On the Electricity Market" (10318). Include in the agenda of the day session. Vote. [[11:38:41]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The next is 10268: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:39:12]] For-173 The decision is not taken. And final: draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the settlement of individual issues in the area of housing and utility services (No. 10228). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote. [[11:39:47]] For 175 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u59	We didn't make it, yeah. Okay, once again, colleagues, 10228. I'll do it again. And I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the settlement of individual issues in the area of housing services (10228). Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:40:39]] For-188. The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, all the draft laws that were required by the Conciliation Council, we suggested that we put the day session in order, and the hall accordingly gave its vision of those draft laws. And we're moving on to the next draft law of order. This is a draft of the Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine to increase guarantees for the social protection of pregnant women (7113). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[11:41:26]] For-138 The decision is not taken. We're going into full procedure. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Missik Vladimir Yuriovich. Please. The first one is invited to the floor by the committee then Kaplin Sergey Mikolayovich. To prepare Missik Vladimir Yuriovich. Please, Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u60	The author of the bill, Mr. Misik, asked to be considered without his participation. Well, first of all. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement Security considered at its meeting on October 18, 17th, the bill under number 7113. It provides for the right of pregnant women from the moment they become pregnant, to reduce working hours by one hour, while preserving their average monthly wage. The bill is supported by the U.S. National Unions of Trade Unions. Similarly, there are a number of observations made by the Ministry of Justice. As regards the overall vote for certain legislative initiatives today, which in the context of social policy in the state, I would like to emphasise that such laws had to be adopted throughout the Supreme Council of Ukraine's 8th call. And the Law on Reforming the Pension System, Auditing, General Economic and Social Block, Institutions and Government Activities, and reviewing the State Budget Sequester to increase funding for the most vulnerable population categories: both veterans, and pensioners, and people with disabilities, and young people, and so on. Similarly, the draft regulation on a fair price for gas or a draft decree of faction colleagues, which envisions a substantial reduction in the price of gas, which is a social component of the life of ordinary Ukrainians. Similarly, the draft decree and the related bills to expand the single social contribution base, which would give our country about 12 billion, from 9 billion to 12 billion, an additional threshold that we could spend on the financing of pensions to military pensioners. Similarly, bills related to reform of the system are generally a socio-economic bloc of government. I have a question for Parliament and the head of government. Please tell me, what is the purpose of a country where there is no social policy that is in violation of the Law, the Basic Law, where the first article states that Ukraine is a social, up to two ministers of social policy? Deputy Prime Minister Paul Rosenko, who is not known at all. With all due respect, and even the fact that I'm sitting in his seat, he's done absolutely nothing at all, he's never been to the Social Policy Committee. And I remind him directly and the head of government that we live in the parliamentary-presidential republic, and he's at least obliged to be at these meetings. I'm already talking about a minister of social policy who deals exclusively with genocide, just the genocide of pensioners, the genocide of people who get minimum wages. How can you be allowed in a country where you simply eat and chisel district governments, district administrations? The head of the Poltava District State Administration with prostitutes is entertained in Spain at a state expense and then out of office and then just out for a walk. He's going to Ukraine's national deputies! How in such a country the minister of social policy can be kept silent and not behaved harshly in government meetings, not come here, and, as a bulldozer, in the direct sense of the word, seek out factions, seek out people’s deputies, and seek out the prime minister of significant voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u61	Mr. Chairman of the Committee, please go back to the subject of the bill under discussion and avoid non-parliamentary statements, okay? Thank you very much. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u62	Why non-parliamentary?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u63	I'm asking you to go back to the bill. Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u64	Otherwise, the common people do not call, unfortunately, national MPs, government officials, members of the government today. Why not? It's very parliamentary. And the last presidential election, the next parliamentary, sociology that we have today, is proof of that. I invite the MPs to vote in favour of this very important bill, which concerns the fate of social security for specific people. And in addition, if I take this opportunity, I want to go to the government so that in the near future, a week or two, the financial security of mothers who gave birth to children will be settled, and so will hospital payments. Today, the debt is about 2 billion dollars. That is, those who hide their relatives and the state does not pay them money; children who are born cannot receive money; and those who are in the hospital cannot, unfortunately, receive money. Two billion dollars. And you're talking about the 13th pension. After 20 years, Poland introduced the 13th pension, after 20 years of progressive GDP growth, at least 5-6 percent. And you're telling people stories, you're twisting them, and then they're suffering from collective and normal national MPs, which are also partially in this room. That's why I'm inviting factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for Mr. Kaplan's question. Mr. Capplin, please stay. Mr. Capplin, I'm asking you to stay in the rostrum. We're going in full procedure, and now there's a question for you. Please return to the rostrum. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a question to a co-conspirator. Please, Mr. Kishkar, your question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u66	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine. What are the amounts, Mr. Sergio, of which are the terms and costs of the state budget? If so, what were the benefits before that, and what does the figures actually change for specific people? Can you call the numbers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u67	Dear colleague, this vacation is compensated at the expense of the employer. This legislative initiative, I think, is absolutely pragmatic, normal, balanced, and does not put too much pressure on the state budget. So if we talk about the whole possibility of funding, on individual initiatives of the people's deputies and the factions of Parliament, similar expenses, I'll tell you again: we have reserves when we adopt current bills, up to 35-40 billion dollars that can be allocated to finance such microsocial projects. This is also the enlargement of the EES, the EES base for increasing the income of the Pension Fund, which is also a budget sequester in part of the diverse, unnatural countries that are in such situations, expenditure such as festivals, round tables, maintenance costs for extra district government administrations, district administrations that emulate their social, inter alia, activities and the like. We've worked on about 50 drafts that can be passed today by a social worker.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u68	Please, 30 seconds, please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u69	It could be up to 30 billion dollars in the current year. And here we have a nice, full membership of the Committee on Social Policy: both Mr. Drozdick, and Mr. Drauk, and Natalia Kraljevska. And we are responsiblely saying that the committee has the necessary reformist anti-crisis social bloc of initiatives that we have been pursuing for several months.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u70	Thank you. Please, the next question is the national deputy of Eutuszek. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u71	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. This bill is designed to improve working conditions for pregnant women because it is social. That's why the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill. But, at the same time, I have a question to the reporter, because it says in the bill that pregnant women are given the right to work less for an hour to save their monthly earnings. But there is a correction regarding the employer’s obligation to issue appropriate instructions on the basis of a statement made by the pregnant woman to whom the help has been added. What will happen if the employer turns out to be unconscious and violating the law? If we now approve him, what sanctions could be for him, to this employer? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u72	As part of the discussion of this bill, we held very serious consultations, subject-matter consultations with the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economics, with the government as a whole and in the context of working with the author, with the SPS, the Joint Representative of Trade and Employers, and the State Social Party. For employers in general, who unite several million subjects there, no reference to the ethical side or the potential refusal of employers to meet their young mother, there are no such precedents. They also conducted appropriate studies, conducted appropriate consultations. So I would say that this part, it carries this kind of permissive, ethical character, that employers are going to meet their young mom. And you know that when you are pregnant, you can say no to sin at all. So I think we're like a country, totally conscious, and accordingly, a country of conscious employers, and we're always going to meet our children and their moms.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, the next question. People's deputy Kurilo. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u74	Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The biggest problem for Ukraine in the coming decades is the demographic problem. And increasing birth rate is the best thing we can do to support this. So I'm going to vote for all the bills that will help improve demographics in Ukraine and increase birth rates. Sergey Mikolayovich, but it's not a business problem, it's a national problem. And you and the committee, along with the budget committee, have to figure out how to deal with this problem at the expense of the state budget. Because there's no reverse effect, because there'll be no pregnant brothers at work if we translate it all into business. Find out how the government budget is giving up something else and supporting the birth of new children.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u75	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u76	I'm joining your line on the need to increase the population of our state, and I call upon all members of the Supreme Council to join in this proper process. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to point out that in business, employers have no significant warnings about the burdens they will bear if they adopt this bill. When you talk about division, the discretion of this position between business and the state budget, I want to point out that everything is going to pay the business anyway: either directly, with less administration of such expenditure, or indirectly, through appropriate taxes and a corresponding increase in tax burden on business. So I invite you boldly, unconditionally to vote for this, absolutely correct, bill. And what I'm saying is that business today is carrying the minimum social burden on part of wages, because today, when we talk about the cost-of-work fund, it's 5 to 6 times less than our colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u77	Please finish 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u78	In Moldova, in Russia, the same one we bring as an anti-example in Belarus. I'm already talking about Poland, countries like France, Sweden, the more Norway, the social-democratic countries. So, I think here we should, on this site, find an understanding, and yet business should be more actively involved in social modernization of the form of relations with ordinary citizens, with hired workers. Sadly, today we live in conditions where there is a slave laborer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u79	Finish 30 seconds, please. Thank you. No, no, you stay still. Dear Mr. Capplin, two more questions for you. Please, the People's Deputy of Kishkar and then Sporish. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u80	Paul Kishkar "The People's Movement of Ukraine." By supporting Mr. Kuril, indeed, the demographic crisis along with the government’s migration policy has led to a fatal decline in the number of people in Ukraine, and instead we need to find tools that directly support pregnant women, the process of pregnancy and child support, in some ways financially supporting those families that have three or more children. What tools, in addition to the new obligation to pay people or reduce working hours, have we come up with for business? We didn't start any business support tools in any of the cuts. I remind you that in developed countries, such as Lithuania, 42 business support tools. Why does Ukraine not generate these tools? How our product will be exported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u81	Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u82	Is it somehow competitive if we don't support our own business and make a country that would take on new and new export markets? What should we do about it? Which of the initiatives you have announced to the committee are aimed at supporting social business? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u83	The Committee, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and in accordance with the package of legislation governing the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions is responsible for employment, pensions and social policy. The concept of "social business protection" is anomalous for economic or social science, which is taken care of by the Ministry of Economics and accordingly by the professional committees in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. I want to emphasize, there's a basic indicator -- part of the labor fund in the cost of production. It accounts for 8 percent in big and medium business. The average, safe for the economy, is about 22. In Sweden, 56-60, in some areas, 70 percent. So a simple 27-year-old job and today they don't pay 7-8 wages, both in the public sector, spending money on completely unproductive, inefficient things, and in the private sector. The legislators.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u84	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u85	It should be noted that the legislator of practice does not pay people a decent salary or provide them with adequate social protection, does not provide pensioners with adequate pension insurance, unfortunately today is the state, because it collectively sets certain economic standards on these issues. So today we need to adopt legislation to protect trade unions and institutionalize trade unions in order to be really subjects of the negotiating process and social dialogue, to adopt appropriate legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u86	Thank you. 30 seconds to complete, please, but bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u87	adopt appropriate legislation on reform in the system of institutional bodies of employers, substantially regulate and modernize, in principle, appropriate social dialogue and seek a point of mutually agreed systemic things, in order for us to be entitled to a pension, it was worth paying to support business to pay on time and to the fullest extent of taxes, to carry out social pressures, and people worked effectively. What about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u88	Thank you. Please ask Mr. Sporish the next question. National MP Sporish, your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u89	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Please pass the word to Grigory the Muggle.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u90	Please turn on Mr. Baggins' microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u91	Thank you. Mr. Sergey, I'd like to respond first to your statement in the report where you said about the heads of administration. Please don't identify all the heads of the district government, because there are a lot of people who work hard 12-14 hours a day. I mean, you're probably just saying that because I wasn't working as a district manager myself, and I wasn't specifically carrying the load on a particular area of work. More than that. One more second. Moreover, the people say it is easier to rub their tongue than a plow of feathers. And my question is. If you knew at first that this issue should not be on business, but on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u92	Finish 30 seconds, please. Colleagues, I'm going to continue our meeting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u93	And the government budget, why didn't you first work on the committee just to make sure that the person was guaranteed, and the pregnant women that they would receive such support from the state itself. Because we have a different business, we have one that barely survives, where does it take the extra money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u94	There is a difference in the approach of the committee and the legislator, the committee that has agreed on the bill, and your approach. It's a committee for that. And I agreed with the employers, once again, they don't have any comments. I don't understand why it's causing such a hysteria in the room. A committee to keep the load in the pocket of a cursed capitalist speaking figuratively, yes, in language. Big business, medium business, less pressure on small business. You're advocating that because of excise duties, because of an increase in totally unfair, unfair tariffs, because it's because of tariffs, because of tariffs, because of the pockets of ordinary Ukrainians, that part of the budget is financed, that the answers to compensation are paid. So you suggest you take your mom from one pocket and translate it into another, and say, "This is the state that helped you." It's the wrong approach, you're looking at it the wrong way. This needs to be done in part in business concessions in support of pregnant women. That's right, it's international standards, it's a precedent, based on international practice and developed accordingly in a separate way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u95	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u96	As for the heads of district administrations. You know, I run a political power that has 2,000 members of the local councils, and I do local self-government every day. And I can cross you here that I have never met in my life any adequate, professional and, most importantly, the head of the district or district government. They need to be cleaned up and saved 25 billion dollars in the country, compensated to make them pay less. Simple people paid less.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u97	Thank you, thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, I hereby declare a recess of 30 minutes. I want to remind all of you that we are now considering Bill 7113 in full procedure. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Labour Code to increase guarantees for the social protection of pregnant women. Right after the break, I'm asking the MPs and factions to sign up for this bill. The break is scheduled to take up to 12 hours and 35 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u98	Please come into the hall. Colleagues, I'd like to invite everyone into the hall. I would like to remind you that we are continuing to discuss the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Labour Code to increase guarantees for the social protection of pregnant women. We're supposed to have factions now, so I'm asking everyone to come into the hall so that we can continue the discussion. Please. You're ready, aren't you? So, colleagues, we are now continuing our consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Labour Code on enhancing guarantees for the social protection of pregnant women (No. 7113). Until the break, we heard Caplin Sergio Mikolaiovich, and now we're moving on to the factions of factions and groups, and then there will be speeches from the national MPs. So, colleagues, I'd like you to ask the factions and groups to record for discussion, please. From the Radical Party to the word, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u99	My colleague, Alexander Gulak, wrote it down. But the question that Parliament is currently considering is so important that I decided to take the floor so that we could discuss it. Parliament is imitating its activities in increasing the guarantees of social protection for pregnant women, making some substantial changes to the Labour Act, apparently there is an increase in length, possibly for prolonged women. for pregnant women. But what I'm saying is that this isn't going to solve the problem at all. The main problem is that Ukrainians are getting smaller. And my policy and my team are completely the opposite, so that the Ukrainians will be more. And the exact changes that Parliament is making today will not solve this problem for one reason: because the key is that women do not see confidence in tomorrow. They may give birth to a child, but they do not know how to feed him, where to buy housing, where to find a job. Copier's State Aid is 860 bracelets of baby-sitting per month. Let them try to feed this child for 860 dollars a month to those who are assigned to do so. And how many young families, mothers and children wander around hired corners and pay a huge amount of space money for a utility and a rented apartment! Because the government budget doesn't have a penny to buy housing for young people, for youth mortgages, for employment, for the guarantee of education, especially for vocational and technical education. Because the government under the direction of the International Monetary Fund to save and close the gap in the budget has cancelled the financing of vocational and technical education. Who asked Oli, Mani, Gali, where would she go to learn? Who needs her with this baby on her hands? Like my mother who gave birth to me, she wasn't 19, she was a student of school or technology, and everything, and no one needs her. And my mother gave me up at daycare because there was no State support. Now, today, I remember, in Lviv, they were in the Hope Children's House, out of 37 children. Of the 42 children, 37 are in the living parent's house. Because their parents in Poland make a living. That's why I'm asking Parliament not to simulate social protection for pregnant women, but to do this real protection: employment, rehabilitation of housing funding for young people, to increase the state's care for children, guaranteed the first job, and the restoration of vocational and technical education for these women. And then there will be more Ukrainians and there will be more Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u100	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kuril Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u101	Vitaly Kurilo, Luganskina. The demographic problem in Ukraine today is perhaps the biggest problem. Not economic, not even military, but demographic, because we were 52 million in 91. As many of us as we do today, no one will say. In 1929, there were some 80 million Ukrainians around the world; today, there are 65 million Ukrainians around the world. All nations, great nations, they are increasing, the Ukrainian nation is shrinking. And this will lead to the fact that within 50 years this nation may cease to exist as a nation. That's why we need to design a program today primarily with demographics, population growth programs, Ukrainian populations, and to do that, all the resources have to be: social, economic, educational, educational, educational. Because to make birth a prestigious, fashionable thing is a state matter. Turn on our TVs, what do we see? We see murders, we see death, we see hopelessness, we see dirty politics. We don't see happy faces, Mom. And it also forms skepsis across the population. So to change the entire ideological policy of population, about demographics, about the prestige of birth, it's a matter of state, it's a matter of society in general. And here we need to develop a serious program to do that. And today's proposed law needs to be supported as one of those elements that helps increase birth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u102	Thank you. Are there other factions who are willing to speak? Okay. Then we move on to the speeches by the national MPs. I'm asking you to prepare, we'll have 15 minutes to make speeches by the national deputies. Please hold the recording. Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kaplan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u103	Well, first of all, I want to say that, at last, a delegation from the Ministry of Social Policy came here from all over the deputy minister. But I think that when the law is being considered, which is the basis of social protection and social support for the heroic people who make such a difficult decision to have a child, save the country, then take care, despite the genocide of the people of the government, of that child, of the minister should come, the vice-premier of social politics should come. Where's your deputy prime minister? He only walks when he is appointed Attorney General and everything. Today this bill needs to be voted on. You can see that there are no national deputies in the room, you can see that there is no, as the Head says, potential to approve of this law. Two social laws have been broken. Why, then, do we continue to work, to destroy the work of the committee, the government, the national deputies, so that we can forget this legislative initiative for all time? I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, you can see we're not taking anything today. You can see that there are not even 100 national deputies in the hall today. What kind of pregnancy? What veterans? What pensioners? What pensions, what wages, what tariff cuts? There is no Supreme Council. It's not because of discipline, it's not because we went to the county to sow Greek and then to win. There is no irresponsibility, no lack of conscience. Just as there are no government representatives at the right level to defend and protect this bill. I would like to point out once again that the committee has twice resigned the Minister of Social Policy. There's a bulldozer, a bulldog who's going to tear up and throw at the common people. And I want to address the newly elected President of Ukraine. Obviously, you're going to win these elections in Parliament, form a coalition, maybe by yourself. Notice who you're going to be dealing with as a socio-economic block. It's got to be one person. It shouldn't be a miracle like right now that doesn't understand anything about it and doesn't want to do anything for the common people. Because that's why the European Choice coalition suffered today because it broke away from people, forgot about people and spit on people, in their faces, in their souls, as most of the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine do now. Close the sessions and allow for the future to vote on these, extremely serious bills. Do not destroy them, do not destroy them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u104	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Gulak. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u105	Valeria Zarzko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Dear Ukrainians, look who's here today: the Radical Party faction in its entirety, the factions in control, unfortunately, are missing. And this shows us how different factions pay attention to the issue of social protection. We all know terrible statistics, statistics that unfortunately in Ukraine today, mortality is much higher than birth. Why does this happen? I'll tell you how to have three children, because today it's very expensive to have a baby. And not every family, unfortunately, even when both parents are working, has the opportunity to pay for the child to be healthy, to receive a normal education, and to have a future for the child. Why is this happening? Because you can see it with your own eyes. When it comes to economic issues, to some kind of pedestal of something, here we see the predominant factions in full stock. When it comes to ordinary people, when it comes to the average citizen of Ukraine, when it comes to a woman who is the foundation of everything in the world that gives birth to a child, we unfortunately don't see people in this session room. And such bills have no chance to pass. They have no chance of receiving additional funds from Ukraine that want to give birth to children. The State must make sure that every woman is protected so that she has not one child, not two, not even three, so that young women have the opportunity to become many mothers so that they can be sure of the future of their children in this country, so that they can see not only their own future but also their children and grandchildren. Only then will we be able to build a strong, prosperous, successful nation. Unfortunately, they don't understand that right now. Regrettably, it is very expensive and even unsurpassed for an average family to support even one child. The state has to assume responsibility, assume responsibility, and provide the support that every average Ukrainian woman needs so that women do not give their children to children’s homes, for these children have nothing to feed at home. And there are so many examples when young children are left even in hospitals, in maternity homes where they are born, especially if they are children with disabilities. Because these children need to be treated and paid crazy money for their maintenance every month. Let's change the whole state policy, it's up to us. Let us do our utmost to make sure that true politicians care for their country and their nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u106	Thank you. And I invite you to my word. Wait, wait. Wait, please. National Deputy Koseljeva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u107	Respectful colleagues, respected Ukrainians, respected Ukrainian women, not too long ago becoming a mother, you are beginning to realize that your life is changing and you are beginning to look at your views and values. It is frightening to compare that when you have a child, you start to count and how much it costs to raise it, how much it costs to provide it with quality, education, and quality of life. Almost every mother who now gives birth is faced with a choice — to dedicate her life to a child, to her upbringing, or to stay at work. So the Radical Party faction always supports ideas, bills, and the main priority of our team is that every woman wants to have children for Ukraine, because every child is Ukrainian and that's her future. We should not forget that it is important not only to get a good education but also to maintain health. Do you know how much every shot costs now, every medical examination of the baby's child? How can it be provided when it goes into the nursery? These are very difficult, difficult questions. How does a mother who sadly raises a child without a father ask herself these questions? All these issues should concern every parliamentarian, every Ukrainian. So the Radical Party faction will support all laws directed to make each woman feel needed, loved, and needed by every Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u108	Welcome to the speech of the national deputy Eutuska.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u109	How fantastic, good performances now sounded from moms who have babies. One mother has three children, the other mother has just become a mother. Very good and very nice, you girls, feeling the inside of a woman, talking from this rostrum, that's good. I represent the Fatherland faction and I'm elected to the Plains. For those of you who don't know, maybe I'll say that the first place of birth in Ukraine is equality. Moreover, the district that I represent with the center of Sarna, which includes both Kostopilski and the Berezni district, has the highest birth rate in the area. In view of this, what would we want? Realizing that my receptions are attended by mothers, parents, and eventually by children who are very soon to become adults, at the reception, they are talking about emerging problems. If the village has a high birth rate, where the dynamics reach the most unusual sizes and figures in Ukraine, of course, we immediately see the load. Pressure on schools where children go through three changes. For example, as in the village of Zepcewich of the Sarnen district or in the village of Chabel, there is also the Sarnen region. Where children do not have the right conditions for learning, this is very bad. How do we feel when we hear that parents cannot send children in these areas to preschool children’s institutions because the turn to preschool is huge? I recall that in the session hall a bill was passed by my authorship, which also allowed women who had retired to retire, but the employers of those businesses that were still in the village unfortunately. Fortunately, more loyally, they stayed, but they have no incentive from the state, such as the STD, the kolgos, where these women worked as agronomists, milkmaids. So these employers were forced to pay for the delivery of pensions from their own circulation costs. We've corrected this practice here with you in Parliament. I also want to mention those who may not be here right now, and they're planting districts in major districts, and they're turning to voters. And remember, please, and do a deep analysis, and who voted for the removal of the benefits of the black people who are also in mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u110	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u111	It was those deputies who canceled the fourth zone of Chernobyl. It's those deputies who are now "sowing" again that have canceled the third zone. At the same time, children were denied school meals without any research on whether or not these children are suffering from more oncosa disease in these areas or perhaps less. That's why the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill. And I would like to ask the parliamentarians to gather together and also to support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u112	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Borislav Berezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u113	While I was waiting for my speech, one of the members of the Supreme Council stopped by and said, "Does anyone know what the bill is about?" It was quiet, but one person said, "Oh, baby." Others did not know what the bill was about. Your Honor, the bill. I'm sorry, I know there are people in this room who know what this is about. But such fine speeches, such arguments, if this were the first time, I might be surprised, but most people in this room don't really know what the bill is about. I'm explaining to them. The bill proposes to supplement Ukraine's HRP with a new article 178, which gives pregnant women the right to work on a one-hour workday with a monthly average wage from the moment she became pregnant. Friends, such a bill is similar in Poland, such a bill is in other countries. So I can say, I don't see what we can argue about or not argue about, the question in another. There are no votes for this bill, not because someone doesn't like it, but because it doesn't bother the majority that is now in the Supreme Council or that is not in the session room at all. If there was a question of gas, about a forest round, about aids for a bitter industry, if the question were to be raised by energy, if the question were raised by those who were concerned about most deputies, then maybe there would be voices, and they would be sitting in the room right now by 320 people who would vote. And you don't have to say that all majors are sown. I'm a major, I work in the hall. I have three children, and I know what it's like to raise three children. The question is different. When you realize that the laws that are passed here change the country, not change the wealth of several people, then the quality of preparation for the laws will change, then what's inside the law will be known to all the deputies of the Supreme Council. And that's when Parliament's rating isn't going to be 2-3 percent, it's going to be much higher. Because then people will understand what's going on in Parliament, because then people will have respect for Parliament, and then you won't be surprised why people support the dissolution of Parliament or why people don't support any of you. Still, let us not only offer something good at circuits or party gatherings; let us accept what people need in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u114	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u115	Dear Ukrainians, usually when there is a discussion of the bill in the section "the word of the MP" in Parliament's walls, they give the floor to three deputies in three minutes. I pressed the button, it looks like the sixth or the seventh, came to me. Why? Because something needs to be filled in. We will not accept this bill today, like many other bills, and the problem is not just the bad MPs who went to the districts. The council is dismissed, isn't it? Dissolved. And each of us today makes a decision: to work in a campaign to win again or to be present in the hall. I made a decision for myself today to be in the hall, as I did in the previous days. But I have a question for you, I am addressing my voters in the 198th constituency. You know I'm socially active, in Facebook, in many networks you can find me. Give me an answer, Ukrainian national deputy Sergio Rudik, who for 4.5 years attended a conscientious meeting of the Committee of Budgets and our plenary: What should I do in these months? To come to you and to hear about your problems, what am I, in principle, also able to do, or sit in this room and open up a discussion of bills that are important, irrelevant, in this case unscrupulous? Ask me, am I for young girls or women of older age who have become pregnant and for the glory of God who have not gone abroad and want to give birth to a child in Ukraine, or am I for this bill? Yes, of course. I'm not going to find any people in this room who are voting against or even holding back. But it won't go away again, I say, for that reason. So I'm looking forward to the response and feedback of my constituents: moving on, knowing that the probability of adopting the bill is, let's say, 10 percent, or actually being in the district, working with people and thinking about the next Council? And you guys, what do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u116	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Leschchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u117	Dear voters, respectable citizens of Ukraine! Absolutely correct comments by colleagues that Parliament is in fact in the electoral process, no one is even following the laws that are being considered. The questions of our new generations are a matter of priority, as in all parliaments of the world. But unfortunately, we've already become hostages to break up the Supreme Council for the early elections, and it's a shame that in these elections, money will dictate the main role again, everything will go through a group of voters, through networks, by trying to bribe and re-enter the dome to drain state budgets for the next five years. So I call on all Ukrainian citizens: please don't vote for corrupters, for those who have used their mandates before exclusively to create preferences or oligarchs, or their entrepreneurs, their factories, their factories, their corruption interests. All that's going on in politics right now is unfortunately turned into a farce. The whole country discusses the situation in Kiev during the celebration of Capital Day. We lived to the marzam when on Capital Day we did not get a new subway branch on the bedroom arrays, new subway stations. Remember, even at the time of the corrupt authorities, large roads were opened at one subway station a year, opened bridges, and opened up. A pedestrian bridge was built between the two Kyiv hills. Yes, of course it is. But at the price of half a billion dollars it's needed? When it's budgeted, when the same budget could start building a subway at last on the Vineyard, one of the areas that would collapse during the capital's transportation collapses. I got an answer from Klick's city head that maybe by the end of the 21st year, they're going to open a subway to the Vineyard. But there are half a billion budgets to "deplete" during the construction of a small pedestrian bridge in the Kiev center, which began to crack and break into this bridge on the second day of exploitation. Is that normal? Is this the European capital? Is this actually the level of celebration of Kiev when we can't help our citizens in infrastructure projects that would serve the whole community, all the inhabitants, not just the small part that we use, and a large part of the tourists who come to really look at our city? But at this time, all the people who live in the city, who are forced to use absolutely inadequate services and transportation, are just immersed. That's why we're calling for city authority. I'm going to appeal to anti-corruption agencies -- the NABU and the D.A. -- to clear this bridge. But I have a call: think of the Chinese who live on the fences that live on the Vineyard, where there's no subway for 20 years with a hook, as promised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u118	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, there's more of the faction. [[B in m in s a l in]] The speaking time of the deputies is over. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, there's also the national deputy galasjuk. Head. From the Self-Help faction of Anna Romanov. And a storm from the opposition block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u119	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, everyone today is concerned about the issue that is widely discussed in the press, experts, and so forth. The question relates to the discussion of a possible U.S. default. The question is, why did this discussion arise in the first place? What did it come from? What, did it come out of the air? No! No! It came from the fact that the President of Ukraine, in violation of the Constitution, caused a crisis of confidence in Ukraine, trust on the part of investors and creditors. And so there's not enough money in the economy, and now the situation is even worse. So, Ukraine needs no default, Ukraine needs economic development, investment and the creation of millions of new jobs, as proposed by Oleg Láška's Radical Party. But on the other hand, there are people who claim that Ukraine needs permanent cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. So it's also a completely wrong, absolutely wrong policy that was pursued by the previous President of Prussianko, and we see what it's led to. This is the result of the powder policy: poverty, mass emigration, dependence on IMF loans. Instead of forever sitting on this credit needle, we need to radically change economic policies, as the Lachka team suggests, we need to strengthen our own industry, raise our own production, and this will allow us to reverse credits and the International Monetary Fund, other creditors. It's not a default to advertise, it's a debt to pay off. Those who say it's impossible know neither the economy nor the history. Because Turkey, from 2003 to 2013, as a result of the new economic policy, has returned to the last cent of the International Monetary Fund's credit, and before that, Turkey has been borrowing these loans for 40 years, the longest-ever loaner of the International Monetary Fund. So, in Ukraine, there's really no alternative, if we want to be a successful, prosperous European country, there's no alternative, there's only one way: to develop our own production, to protect our national industry, to develop entrepreneurship, to engage in the economy of healthy money, to invest, not credit. And, of course, there are no defolits, but the fulfillment of its obligations, reinforcements, and not the destruction of the investment image of Ukraine in the international arena. This will allow the Ukrainians to raise their wages and pensions, not by percentage, but on a regular basis, and not once before the elections, as did the previous disgraceful authorities. We're building a successful economy, building our own Ukrainian industry, and returning millions of immigrants to Ukraine. The new economic policy proposed by Oleg Lášk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u120	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Golovka. Please, People's Deputy Golovko. Then two of the factions: Anna Romanova and Igor Šurm. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u121	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte, 164 constituency. Ladies and gentlemen, although, of course, you are very few here in the hall, and I understand that such an important bill has a threat not to pass through, not to vote, so first of all, I'm going to ask that we don't put it to the vote right now, to the head of the Supreme Council, but to move it to the fourth, when it's actually in the hall of over 226 people's deputies. Because the Law on Support for Pregnant Ukrainians, Pregnant Mothers, Future Mothers is a much-needed bill, especially in this regard. Even the minimum and the hour, the reduction of the working day, but, at the same time, taking it into account for the monthly wage, it's also small, but still aid from the state. As national deputies, we should make every effort to support Ukraine, support pregnant women, support motherhood. As a father of a large family, yes, my wife and I raise three children, and I realize how important this is. It is important that we have the support of young families in the country and that we have the support of a child’s birth. You'll see how the Poles do it. Today, they provide child support at birth — 500 zlotys under 18 years of age. You multiply by 7, that's 3.5 thousand dollars. So, understanding that every Polish family has the ability to raise children, not to think about diapers, not to think about mixtures to feed, and so on, because understanding that children are the basic treasure of the nation, that's our basic value, that resource that will enable us to develop in the future of our nation. If we do not create conditions today, support pregnant women, support young families, support our young mothers who give birth to children, we will have no prospect. What did the government of Groysman come up with? He's handing out boxes, baby boxing. What's in those boxes? Who needs them? But most of the people you're talking to, they want those officials to be packed in these boxes and sent somewhere else. Even under Yanukovich’s regime, there was still more help, more payment for the birth of a child than the government of Groysman does today. Young families are being bullied, and the same pregnant women are being bullied. So I urge, and the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union supports the position that young families should be supported, that young families should be given credit, that they should be assisted in the birth of a child. And that's got to be worth it, not 870 bucks, who can support little kids for that kind of money today? It's a real genocide, it's a bullying, it's an authority that does everything to ensure that we don't have a birth, that young Ukrainians go to work and clean up the territory, because they have one goal: to buy up Ukrainian land. So Freedom will vote in favour of such a law, and we ask that it be transferred to Thursday, when they will be elected to the Hall, because today they are in elections, they've already split into their districts, and they're in agitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u122	Thank you. I ask you very much to bring me a paragraph of the Rules that allows us to transpose the law that we are considering. But I can tell you it's impossible, it's never been like this. And you sit, look to the right, to the left, where your colleagues are, take the phone and tell them that you have to be at work and work, not in elections. And that's the right thing to do. So, colleagues, in five minutes we'll move on to making a decision. And that's why I'm asking all the factions to invite MPs into the hall. In five minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. Now we have our closing remarks: Romanova from Self-Help, then Igor Shurma is a replica, and then we move on to making a decision. Okay. Romanova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u123	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainians, distinguished colleagues. Of course, demographics, population numbers are the main thing for our country today. We need to urgently save the situation we're in. Of course, we should conduct a population census as soon as possible, which was no longer 18 years old. And when my fellow parliamentarians from other countries ask me, "Please tell me, when was the last time you did a census? - I said 18 years ago." And they say: "No, you're confused, it can't be." No, it could be. And we really don't understand how many people we've lost, the demographic characteristics of our population. But it all goes to the point where, of course, the young population is getting smaller and smaller, and in a few years, there's no where they're getting pensions and other social benefits. But I want to go back directly to the text of the bill. You know, there's a lot of nice words here about the state protecting just pregnant women. But where does the State function in this bill? Read this bill carefully. This bill states that the State’s responsibility to stimulate birth is to blame whom? Employers. Because this bill says that for pregnant women, the working day can be reduced by one hour. What does that mean? I want to talk about today as a woman, and that I'm being approached by a lot of women, you know what? That a young woman doesn't want to go to work. Why Don’t They Want to Be Brothers? Because then the State imposes upon the employer the obligation to pay for it. And now again, we're setting these conditions for the employer. And you know what? The problem is that the young woman won't be taken after the interview, because the employer will pretend: yes, she's young, she'll get married soon, she'll have a baby, and I have to shorten her workday. We, if we say that the state has to protect women and increase birth rates, we don't have to put everything into business. Bills need to be developed that provide incentives for business to take young women to work, to take students to work. In many countries around the world, if you employ a student, you have tax benefits and tax incentives. And now we have 90 percent of the students working in black because it's not convenient to form them. And we young people from a very young age are trained not to pay taxes to that State. That's why Self-Help advocates a comprehensive approach for cooperation between the state, the business, and the protection of students and young women who need to be born and have a happy pregnancy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u124	Thank you, colleagues. We're about to make a closing statement. Three minutes to vote. I'm not going to point that out anymore. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. And if there are no votes, the bill will just be rejected. Now from the Opposition Block, Igor Schurm. In three minutes, the decision is made. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u125	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm asking Ukrainian citizens to let you, the viewers and those who listen, see what the essence of the immorality of this House is. Please tell me now that everyone can go to the rostrum and pout on women, on pregnant women, on young mothers, this bill is introduced into the session hall. And there, in the corner, it's probably the young mother herself from the Opposition Block, Natalia Royal. Five years ago, she passed a series of drafts concerning the social protection of mothers and women. Why haven't you considered these bills for four years? The immorality is that all the streets and all the boards today are sown by advertising about a country of happiness and good, and below is a hybrid name: not the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but the government of Groysman. What's that? And tell me, why does the government continue to detract from social policy to business? Today, we have considered a bill that deals with military personnel, which gives them the right to additional leave within 14 days. No one says that the budget should be set aside, that if we respect and love those who are really fighting for Ukraine, we will give them 14 extra days to pay. Today we're talking about giving an hour's work to a pregnant woman. There are no people in the room who won't vote for it. Why, though, does the State again translate it into all employers? That's one thing. The immorality is that today, perhaps the President's statement that he will not sign any bill that he has voted to violate the procedure will force the last 40 days -- because 40 days -- this symbolic figure, the truth is that we have 40 days left, in 40 days we're going to be fine with us -- going down here, to the hall, and voting, even for social bills. There's no one in the hall. Today, no one wants to think about women or soldiers or those who defend Ukraine. And immorality is that there is no principle of political justice. When people come out of the Opposition Block, it's very common to say, "Turn off the microphone, because it's not topical!" And today, about the IMF, about energy, what does that have to do with anything? Is that what men are saying about energy to help a woman get pregnant? What are you talking about?Oh, my God! There's no talk here on the subject. We're breaking the Rules ourselves, we're guilty. And so when they say that this composition of Parliament is immoral, the question given and the vote given is just confirmation. We will vote and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u126	So let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine to increase guarantees for the social protection of pregnant women (number 7113) on the basis of the Committee's proposal. Please vote. Please support me as a base. [[13:18:09]] For-147 The factions, please. Block of Peter Poshenko – 45, National Front – 30, Opposition Block – 18, Self-help – 13, Radical Party – 15, Father's Party – 4, Will of the People – 0, Rebirth Party – 2, non-fractional – 20. I'll be back. Please take up your jobs. And, colleagues, it's everyone's job to report for their actions, for their votes. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 7113, to vote on the basis. Please vote, please support. Who's to go back to voting as a basis, we vote. [[13:19:29]] For-153 The decision is not taken. Next. The discussion is over. Next. It is a suggestion to return to the committee to prepare for the rereading of the first reading. Please vote, please support. [[13:19:57]] For-151 The decision is not taken. And the final offer is to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative. Please vote and please support. [[13:20:20]] For-147 The decision is not taken. So Bill 7113 is rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] Next. Let's see the factions. Colleagues, the next is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of the issue of leave for theatre employees (8528). Who would like us to consider it as a reduced procedure, please vote. [[13:21:15]] For-94 The decision is not taken. We're moving on to the draft law. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Kaplin Sergio Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u127	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u128	This is the sixth attempt to adopt a bill initiated by our colleagues Gerasimov and Heratschenko. The sixth attempt to enable our artists, cultural workers to work abroad without losing their jobs in the theater. First, I'm going to express the position of the committee. We voted to support the bill. To support them not to lose valuable acquisitions, cultural, humanitarian acquisitions in the person of these beautiful creative people, and to give them the temporary right to work abroad, to earn there, but to promote Ukrainian, Ukrainian culture, and when the situation in the country stabilizes, to come back here when our Ukrainian is able to pay, and every student, every worker, every simple person, every city and village will be able to visit Ukrainian theaters, and we will return to a high level of Ukrainian culture. And I want to act as Ukraine's national deputy. I have a question. And what is the difference between a simple factory in Donbas, a worker in Poltava who works as a cleaning woman there or as a worker in a private or state enterprise? How do other experts differ from those to whom we grant such an exclusive, unique right to tour, and why do we create such a privilege within the framework of new legislation? Why do we today divide people into a higher class and a lower class? And I think that a simple worker, a simple pensioner who is forced to work, a simple woman who is employed in production, a simple man, is no different from the famous Ukrainian artists. They also make a significant contribution to the development of the national economy. They pay taxes, they pay taxes. Their children likewise go to war, and above all their children go to war when it comes to protecting the borders of our nation. They're just like our other fellow countrymen, they're carrying tremendous loads, and all 27 years they've been enduring a constant new power that changes every two or three years. So I think, personally, I think that we need to find compromise and create conditions for not only these individual categories, this small number of people, to get this right, but also to create conditions for while Ukraine survives the uplifting, until it gets out of its knees, as long as the socio-economic situation stabilizes, there is an increase in wages, pensions, and you can work here, in our country, other people have also got some rights, their jobs have been saved, their wages have been saved, their employment has been preserved. For not the Ukrainians, not the Ukrainians, are guilty of this, dear fellow countrymen who are forced to go abroad and seek a better destiny. This is the result of the work of all without exception of governments and coalitions in 27 years, all without exception. Everyone had a chance to build an autonomous, sovereign and energetic, and financial policy. Everyone had a chance to restore the country to an international relationship. Everyone with no exception from the government and every President had a unique chance and the support of Ukrainian citizens to reboot the country, to create constitutional institutional principles that would strike a balance between branches of government that would allow ordinary Ukrainians to call off city heads, local council deputies, to call off the heads of district administrations. Every government and every president, without exception, had the opportunity to become a locomotive for real, deep, systemic reforms. Instead, government officials, based on a coalition within one, the other, the third, the eighth parliament, spent five years purely lobbying, looting, cynical politics, draining Ukrainian nadars and not allowing ordinary Ukrainians to pay an economically sound price for gas, exceeding it three and four times, draining the assets of a large, medium, small business and taking the opportunity of entrepreneurs to pay a decent wage. After all, all governments and all presidents, and all parliaments over this long period have created unique conditions for a permanent systematic usurpation of power. What is more, there is a fear of unprofessionalism in the times of officials, even in sensitive, subtle things that require special professionalism and the need to rely on the experience of the people involved in these reforms. For example, education and, for example, what I have recently experienced is the reform of the music school system. Simple, simple, simple reform. In Ukraine, about 450 to 500 thousand, half a million children go to music schools. It's about 1300-1350 music schools all over the country, some of them are in the villages. And it's just unique that they're saved, that it's unique that teachers, educators work themselves, serve both the state and these children and their parents, and teach our children. In this field, about 20,000 educators have been involved in this field for years, decades, this is our unique humanitarian, cultural acquisition. And today, the Ministry of Culture has found nothing better than to look at the property where these music schools are located -- once; to reduce the amount of time it takes to raise and teach children; and the third, to actually destroy this sector. Here on the left, they shout: no, it's not true. I've encountered several areas, an asset of these areas. Show me this unique phenomenon, this unique person who worked in the pedagogical field, bringing up children, artists, artists, who would say it's the right thing, not the counterproductive reform. I searched for two weeks, and I found no such people. In Poltava region, we held trade unions of the entire educational community, involving representatives from each school. No one, no union center, no group, no representative of those labour groups -- no one came forward, no argument found, I emphasise, no argument supporting this reform. Moreover, petitions to the new President have been signed by tens of thousands of parents who don't want their children to be on the street who don't want to see a system broken that not only teaches music, knowledge in creativity, but a system that raises a child that inculcates eternal, beautiful, spiritual values that we, the people's deputies, members of the government, the entire Ukrainian politics, whether it's on the left or on the right, are destroying in our country. The teacher, the teacher of the school, now holds the humanitarian sector of our state. And these people, getting 3-4 thousand dollars of wages, because of calling, because of self-response, because of their patriotism, heroism and, above all, the love of children today continue to work, no matter what. And they are the first ones who sincerely believe and expect us to make the necessary changes. And that's why I take this opportunity, on behalf of tens of thousands of educators, hundreds of thousands of families, families who send their children to teach them every day, and who hope to teach them a beautiful, intelligent one, who will teach them to be people with big letters. I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'm addressing the new president. You're a creative man, by the way. And they're supposed to stand up for their pedagogists, stand up for those people who voted for you mostly, because you've got tremendous support, and today it needs to be done. And we must not lose communication and the ability to communicate, to communicate, to hear -- and instantly, to solve the problems of these simple, ordinary families, these simple, ordinary people. I made the right call. We have a clear model for solving this problem. Let's keep this incredible class of educators, just beautiful, wonderful. Let's keep this incredible infrastructure that we've gotten from the previous states, and let's keep the opportunity and the right of children to be involved in creativity. And as for this bill, I don't think he has any chance of being supported, because there are no Supreme Council deputies here. And if we even voted to increase wages now a hundred times, there would be no votes, as there will be no votes for this bill now. So close the meetings and do not mock the arts.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u129	Please remain in the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I'm very much asking you to sign up for the question right now. Let's ask 15 minutes. Please, John Sporish, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u130	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, this is an important, fairly important bill that we are considering today. And the question is, really, for creative people, and perhaps not everyone, not everyone would have this talent to work for the people of Ukraine and so on at such low cost. So the question I have is, do we need any extra funding here? Because we still have to go to concessions and do everything we can to get this bill to pass, but there are no people in the room. But at the same time, do you need extra funding, and if necessary, how much?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u131	I'm going to try to explain very simply and popularly, and explain philosophy, not even philosophy, to the mechanics of this bill. There's a group of people who make money abroad. And so that we don't lose them forever, that's a small number of people, I understand, there's not more than a hundred of them there, and in order for us not to lose them, these people have to go to work, and when it gets better here or there will be a chance to make money, they'll come back and work. I have a question about philosophy, about the approach of this bill. We're going to let the milkmaids go so soon, we're going to let the locksmiths go, we're going to let the Ukrainian officials go there, we're going to work, we're going to make money, we're going to go back and we're going to fake something. We need to make decisions at the root of the system, support these people. Are resources administrative to model a beautiful system of art development? Yes. We've done it over and over again, despite the fact that it's not my profile, it's not a social policy issue, but we've been gathering administrators, theatre managers, and all the best experience in Poland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u132	I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u133	This experience was accumulated in order to build a strategy. Do you think you've borrowed relevant innovations from the committee, ideas from the government of Ukraine? No, we didn't. Is there money to support these people? Yes, of course. Make the only net of making the only social contribution from those who get the millionth salary and those who get the small one, and you get the 10 billion. Take at least one tenth of those bills that I've proposed here today, and you'll get the money to keep these important locomotives from developing the humanitarian sector of the state, culture. There's this money! Cut spending on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, stop producing and doing these incredibly unnecessary festivals, round tables, discussions that don't lead to anything, stop imitating a state that doesn't exist, institutions that don't exist, and give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u134	Please put your time into the answers, please try, Mr. Kaplin, please. And now for a question from the People's Deputy Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u135	Thank you. Your Honor, I've listened to your speech for 10 minutes. And, you know, it would be interesting for me to have you tell the essence of this bill in 10 minutes, because I don't understand one detail. For the sixth time, this bill, ew 8222, is being considered. Well, couldn't the authors have asked the smart people how to properly write this bill, and what should be applied not to the 20th article, but to the 21st? In addition, there is article 26 of the Ukrainian Vacation Act, plus the Labour Code. Well, you could go to the professionals, to the experts, to the Ministry and write this law not as short as it's written now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u136	Well, first of all, the nature of not voting for this bill is completely different: in the low discipline of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In spite of the fact that this bill of leaders, in fact the leaders of the two factions of the coalition, Gerasimov and Geraschenka, although it is relevant, is long overdue, it is essentially simple and is not cost-effective for the state budget, after the 4th hour, there is 5th hour, after the 12th time, we cannot gather national deputies for a year to vote on such a law, there is no political will. Now today we're looking at the social bloc, and today the Ukrainian Council, the Ukrainian Supreme Council just, you know, humiliated people and humiliated itself, failing everything that could be done, and it's going to fail now, too. I've come here at a temperature of 39.2 and I've already reported the fifth bill, although I could go to work in the district now, talk to people, control carriers that violate antitrust legislation, but come here systematically, not just for a particular region, a separate city, but for the whole state, to initiate some changes in the system, in the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u137	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u138	Social policy. And it's a shame that the empty hall is because the former coalition, when it collapsed when it was taken apart, is no longer responsible for the life of the state. State. The coalition stopped working, but the state did not stop working. And when they release a simple job and give it a week to collect things, to work, to work properly, and you're not at work, there's no one: there's no representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the only thing I have to say is that voters choose national deputies to work from all political forces: both from power, and from opposition. So I want to look to my colleagues, really, to go back to the session room, or maybe we all went to the front and we all had some very hard work to do. Please, Mrs. Podyak, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u140	Dear Mr. Capplin, I have a question for you. Please tell me what political responsibility are you prepared to bear for this bill being tabled in the Supreme Council with an absolutely vulgar violation of the Rules? A similar, identical bill was rejected by the Supreme Council in June 2018. After being rejected by the Supreme Council, a similar bill was registered a few weeks later. That's how you feel about work. And you fit into it, although it's not your profile at all, you have no idea of it green. For this they hate this Supreme Council that we so spit upon all the laws that are in Ukraine, including the Law of the Rules. So we're not spitting, we're spitting at those who violate this law, including. Are you prepared to shoulder the political responsibility of the Ukrainian people for this disgrace? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u141	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u142	First of all, I'm talking about decisions made by the deputies of the previous call when you weren't there. I was the last to leave the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and then I was in the Strike faction, when we were standing to die, so that there wouldn't be any buttonage in this state, in this Parliament. It wasn't. We were then 20 or 15. You are now, Self-Help, a large number of deputies. What did you do? But if I had a faction here of 20 to 25 deputies, not two of us, like Alexander Sugonjako and I, we would definitely achieve order and regulations. You had this veto right, you didn't take advantage of it, and you have political responsibility for this chaos and that the Supreme Council has turned into brothels. You're doing your job. You're uninitiated. You! Because the Rules, the Constitution of Ukraine, did not protect the country’s European course. You did it in particular! Although you had the opportunity to do so. You didn't take people out, you didn't support the unions. You didn't fight, even though you had an incredible sense of trust in Ukrainian citizens! You don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want to remind you. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to remind you right now what's going on, for an average national MP, maybe someone listened to the question. There was a question about Kaplin’s political responsibility, and he answered it because he felt that there was another political responsibility. There's no question of replication. He didn't mention any names. And "hit" mentioned it, but "hit" wasn't my word either. Please ask the next question, Kishkar, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u144	Then let me be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u145	But I'm asking you very much for answers to be correct, Your Honor, Mr. Capplin, okay? Not to mention anyone is merely to give in substance. Ladies, I'll give you a line after all the questions. Please, Mr. Kishkar, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u146	Thank you, Your Honor. In fact, we need to be responsible for Caplin, so he can't bear any responsibility, everything will be fine in his life, and in his activities onward. What's the point in harmonizing it? Bronyevich, Mr. Sergio, has not arrived yet. So when we go back to 8528, we're talking about 200 people doing their theater work abroad. If they are doing this abroad, including by contract, why should they keep the vacations they are talking about in this bill? And the second brief question is, why can't all of the bills that are now related to vacations generalize and amend our one-and-one bill that regulates this issue, about all the categories of workers? Why split it up and bring it in pieces, dozens, including in flagrant violation of the Supreme Council’s regulations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u147	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u148	Ask the authors of the law: Anton Heratchenka and Arthur Gerasimov. Ask the authors and owners of this law. According to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, legislation on the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been examined accordingly. And these factions, representing the respective national MPs, insisted that we consider the law in its entirety. That's the first one. Second, regarding the system and systematic organization of labour relations in the creative sector of our country. I also have a replica of the faction on the left: why didn't you try to adopt the Labour Code? Why are you leaving the country now that you're leaving the Ukrainian politics with the regressive Labour Code? Why didn't you paralyze the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, having up to 30 national deputies, having a key veto right here in Parliament, to lower the price of gas? Unfortunately, we have only two Ukrainian national deputies: me and Sugonako. If we had, once again, that number of naphthas, that kind of army of naphthas like you, support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u149	Yes, my dear fellow. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's it. Dear Mr. Bezbach, these are non-parliamentary terms. I'm asking everyone to calm down. There are few MPs — many emotions. Please return to parliamentary language. It's moving. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't scream! The self-help faction was mentioned, and it's going to get the right to a replica. Please, a question from the Shurma People's Deputy. He wasn't just sitting there, he was standing there. I beg you not to shout! Please, please, Mr. Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u150	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Look, I'm talking to my colleagues in the hall. Today we have broken all the laws: an extra vacation for the people who are fighting; a reduction in working hours for pregnant women is now a matter of extra leave again. We realize we're not getting votes in this room right now. Under the Chairman's Rules, there is no right, no legal right, to postpone the vote in any way. How do you, Mr. Capplin, respond to such an offer, and we can help the presiding officer: well, if all the deputies, having any part of the morale, pulled the cards out and walked out of the hall to be empty? And then we can move it when there's a quorum in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, there was a line to the presiding officer. I would like to stress that we have several thousand bills registered today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Obviously, not all of them will become laws, and it's the full right of the session room to decide when to vote, to uphold the law, whether to actually send it for work, or to reject it at all. And it's very important that today we have a successful vote, which refers specifically to the social payout of one of the populaces released by our noble army in the territory of the Donetsk region, for which I am very grateful to all the two hundred and thirty deputies who have supported this decision. Mr. Kaplin, there was also a question addressed to you by Mr. Shurma, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u152	You're absolutely hearing the technology. I don't mind the reaction of the national MPs. And I'd like to answer one of the national MPs' lines. Three years ago, look at the chronology of events in the Council, I wrote an application for an exit from the coalition from the Peter Dustenk Block and wrote by Alexander Sugonjako. Three years ago, we won the courts over Mr. Paris, but the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not enforce the rulings of the courts. During my term with the Social Security Committee, we returned 3 million families, not 3 million people, but 3 million families, to the grant. They're oncoughs, invalids I, groups III, they're people who don't pay the only social contribution, they're the poorest, the most vulnerable species of the population, three million people. This is our key achievement. During our work, we have prepared about 50 professional, clear bills to increase the share of the cost-of-work fund in order for a large business to pay a decent salary to ordinary Ukrainians. We've got more than 100 businesses to pay back, and ArselorMittal Steel, where the committee, the committee from.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform the session hall that's in the lobby. Mr. Kaplin's statement to leave the coalition came to the fore. But the coalition has ceased to exist, so I don't know if there's any point in reading it. Mr. Capplin, I think we'll limit ourselves not to read.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u154	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u155	We'll read all your statements, Mr. Capplin. Three, three statements, and we'll find time. No scandal, you've just made remarks to your colleague. So this is a question from the People's Deputy Kiral, please. Sergei Kiral, your question. Please, Sergei Kiral, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u156	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I don't really have any questions for my colleague Capplin. I just probably want to take advantage of the opportunity and actually thank our artists, the cultural actors who today are not just speaking out and sharing their talents abroad, but also participating in so-called cultural diplomacy. This is very important today. I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has even initiated the creation of the Ukrainian Institute, which should actively contribute. But unfortunately, everything is still on the initiative of individual sponsors, mecenati. By the way, when it comes to self-help, especially me and my colleague, Ruslan Sidorovich, have repeatedly supported the lion's band "INSO-Lviv" in their performances and tours in the Netherlands, in Austria, in contact with our embassies, particularly the mecenati. And I hope so, Mr. Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u157	Finish 30 seconds, please. Please finish, 30 seconds, Mr. Kiral. Mr. Sergei, have you completed your question? Thank you. Please respond. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u158	In addition, I would like to inform the deputies on the left and other national deputies that it is through the efforts of the committee, Alexander Sugonjako, my efforts, here in the Supreme Council that a law has been adopted to ensure that part of the rent from oil and gas production remains in the oil and gas-derived regions. And in the Poltava region, this revenue is 1 billion dollars. This is another budget, this is another budget for the Poltava region. And these funds are going to develop, including creative, humanitarian infrastructure, to support communities, plus 1 billion dollars. Individually, I would like to say that the Committee on Social Policy, members of the committee, have repeatedly addressed the leadership of the coalition, called on the government manager to propose a clear development programme for Ukraine, including the implementation of the 1st article of the Constitution, which states that Ukraine is a social state. We don't have any document, no system.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u159	Thank you. No, it was just an ad to you personally and to your committee, not an answer to a question, and I can't do that. Dear colleagues, mentioned in the critical context of the Self-Help faction, as well as one of the authors of the Arthur Gerasimov bill. Would you like to comment on the bill, Mr. Arthur? Now I'm giving you a minute to say "self-help," Mrs. Ostrovy, and then we're just going to give you a word for Arthur Gerasimov, who's going to represent the position of the author group and also give the replica to mention himself in a critical context. Please, Mrs. Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u160	Dear reporter, I'm reading on the board that was written while you were standing here in the roost and drooling about your achievements. Well, it said that you were a member of the Peter Prashenko bloc, and that's why you've been in the Peter Prashenko faction for five years, and you've been in the coalition, and that's why you have to take political responsibility for the state that the Ukrainians and the state are now in. This is the first time. And secondly, did you promise to lower the tariffs on gas? That's how you, being in BP and controlling the regulator, and controlling Rotterdam Plus, were able to do that, and Self-Help was saving the state at that time. Because if it wasn't for Self-Help, it would be a special status. And while you were putting "Rotterdam Plus," our guys were on the rails on the blockade, and they were blocking, and they were fighting this "Rotterdam Plus." So you don't have to give political evaluation to self-help. And we share the idea of the bill, but the bill is not about cultural or professional development of artistic personnel at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, the election of all will be judged and the voters will give an assessment of who worked and who blocked. I'm asking you to give the floor now, five minutes to speak, because we were supposed to have a reporter, Anton Gerashchenko, and he's not in the session room right now, and so I invite you to speak to the reporter, Arthur Gerasimov, who is one of the co-authors of Bill 8528. Please, Mr. Arthur, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u162	Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, I would like to say that this bill was not just born from the pens of the national deputies Gerasimov and Heraschenka and others who supported it in this sessionary hall. This bill was drafted with representatives of the creative intelligence, with representatives of our Ukrainian theaters, who actually faced a problem when they were going to go through it. Because you know, our performers, we have very talented performers. We have unique voices in Ukraine, our National Opera, the Lviv Opera, the Odessa Opera, other theatres that are invited to the best stages of the world -- La Scala, Metropolitan Opera, the Vienna Opera. And we faced a situation where we were approached by representatives of the creative intelligence and said that there was a real problem with the fact that there was no job for these performers during the gastrolas. Why is this important? Because all these people are great patriots of Ukraine. All of these people promote Ukraine during their performances abroad and proudly refer to the name of the soloist of the national operas or opera theaters in Ukraine. And that's how this bill was written and how it was introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, honourable colleagues, this bill solves, in fact, an existing issue that is said to have gone down to the Supreme Council and was developed by representatives of creative intelligence, representatives of national theaters in Ukraine. And I'm asking you to support this bill while voting in the session room. I realize that we won't be able to get to the vote until the break, but there will be a request at the evening session for all the factions, with many of them I've been talking to personally, inviting MPs to the session room so that we can accept this bill in the first reading. Although, dear fellows, here I would like to address personally those experts in the factions that there are. It's quite simple. And I asked to vote not only on the basis of the vote today, but on the whole. Thank you for your attention. If you have any questions, you are ready to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u163	We have five minutes to ask. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up. Please, People's Deputies. Your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u164	Dear Ukrainian citizens, we are now looking at enough, on the one hand, technical, on the other hand, for a certain category of Ukrainian citizens who are engaged in cultural, artistic activities, a very important issue, aimed at increasing vacations without saving wages for these workers. We will certainly support this legislative initiative. It is a pity that it is now being considered in the full absence of the vast majority of the deputies whose cards are currently registered. As far as political responsibility is concerned. The distinguished factions who once formed the European Ukraine coalition in November 2014, all factions, I stress, except for the Opposition Block, have joined this coalition. Of course, you will all be politically responsible in these elections, in turn. You've already experienced the reaction of the people of Ukraine to the presidential elections. There is little left, a proper assessment of your activities in July of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u165	Please answer, Your Honor, Mr. Herasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u166	First of all, I would like to thank you for your support for this bill. And I'd like to focus on one more moment. During the discussion of the bill before it was registered with representatives of the national theatres of Ukraine, it was also emphasized that the bill was also financial in nature for our theatres. Because he will allow large sums of money to be saved in theater budgets at the expense of these performers, they will perform in national operas or in national theatres of Ukraine as soloists of national operas or national theatres of Ukraine. This is also overweight, because otherwise it will be exclusively contractual relationships that will lead to a significant increase in the cost of theaters for creative activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u167	Thank you. Please, Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u168	I have another question for you. Please tell us, what is the need to break down the system of labour legislation and then vote in the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Why was a coalition that I did not think for three years not in favour of adopting the Labour Code, where this norm, a soft norm for people of work, such as creative work, could be substantially expanded for other categories? And then you put 200 people in unequal conditions who have the right to work benefits after adopting this bill, in fact, and hundreds of thousands of other people who have the same problems that they would like to use. And do you support the partial unconstitutionality of this rule because it clearly violates the rights of other citizens?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u169	First of all, this bill is in no way contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. And as for the Labour Code in general, that's the question for the relevant committee, because I think you should lobby the Labour Code as a whole, the changes you're talking about right now. So this is a question, from my point of view, exactly to a committee of profile that had previously been represented in the rostrum. With regard to other Ukrainian citizens and other employees in other businesses, see, if the Labour Code is adopted in general, I fully agree with you. But at the moment, we have a particular problem in the creative sphere itself, there are numerous references by representatives of the creative intelligence on the basis of which this bill has been drafted and we are talking about it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u170	Thank you. Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u171	Mr. Arthur, what other systemic news or systemic changes should we make to existing labour legislation to make such changes complex? That's my question to you. And the comment is short for 1 billion to the budget of the Poltava region, which Mr. Kaplin is trying to minimize by all means, by fighting deliberately against the state company Crushing. I think it's Mr. Fux's relationship that you're going to explain to the Attorney General's Office, and why these companies haven't paid a single penny, with so many permits for gas production. That explains the progress you've been talking about. Capplin and his team have no relation to the success of Crushing in Poltashland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u172	I am. Respectable.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u173	Colleagues, I'll continue for a few minutes while we finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u174	Dear Mr. Kishkar, thank you for asking. And I'd like to say that you're right. In fact, it's just that it's making creative activity normal right now. If you can say that, it ensures that creative intelligence is fully operational, there are a lot of problems that need to be solved. Today we are talking only about one of them. And it was during our meetings with the representatives of the creative intelligence that a host of issues were raised, a host of problems that needed to be solved because of legislation, because of the legislative work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But it was during the discussion that this issue was defined as one of the priorities. That's why it was drafted in the form of a bill, passed the appropriate committees of profile, now it's in the Supreme Council Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u175	Thank you. And the closing question is. Babak is passing Over to Irina. Please. Then there's the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u176	I have a question for you, Mr. Arthur. This applies to all the creative workers of theaters, soloists and all the artistic compositions. People come, they're set up at a bet contest, either a soloist, or a horist, or an orchestra. According to this law, not 10, 20, or 100 people, but everyone will have the right to go abroad to make money after he's at the stake, because that's what this bill is about. And it is up to the head of the agency to whom he will grant the permit, to give free leave, and to whom he will not grant the leave. So, in addition to the fact that this bill on inequality, as the rapporteur rightly pointed out in this bill, is also this bill on chaos and corruption. This bill is interesting to ten people in the country, its value is shameful, and the result is the attitude of the Ukrainian Parliament. It's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u177	Mrs. Irina, you and I have had a lot of discussions on this subject, and so we will agree that even when we come to the National Opera or to the Lviv Opera or Odessa, it will be a manifestation of corruption. So let's talk, but don't talk. I'd like to say, comment and answer your question. This bill refers to the creative development of any soloist in the opera. And if you say anyone, yes, today a person can be a performer in a choir or a performer in an orchestra, but thanks to creative development in a month, in a year, in a few years, he can become a soloist. That's why it's not accepted. And the next question. When you say a decision is made by the theater manager. I want to remind you that under Ukrainian legislation, the directors of the creative institutions, if I'm right, are going to the competition. At the contest. And in addition, the collectives of the creative institutions where such a leader is elected have a significant impact. So this observation, unfortunately, I can also reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u178	Thank you, Mr. Arthur. Now. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no. The ceremony should be in the hall. All right, colleagues, the Chaplin's line, and we're done. One minute and we're done. Thank you, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u179	So I want to explain in a popular manner to the distinguished national MP who criticized me. In the past year, there were zero revenues from oil rents to the Poltava region. This year's almost a billion. The next one is going to be one and a half, and the output is going to increase, and this is one of the principles of our nation's energy security. And this is a bill that we've written and that we've been promoting, bringing together almost half a million signatures of those people who live in these areas. This time. The other one. I have always struggled with monopolies and oligarchs in my work. I have always, especially in Poltava, won the court and made the lowest transport in Europe. In Europe, not only in Ukraine, in Europe. In eight months, the Poles saved 100 million dollars. And so you'd better take the basis of my experience and work, and don't just be critical, let's maybe not the best nadputate, but the normal one absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m0.u180	Thank you. So after lunch, we will be. From the factions, then from the people's deputies. Now I want to read the announcement. Yesterday, I gave the order to urge Kaplin, and I read that according to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Caplin Sergy from the MP's Block of Petra Prashenko. Thank you, colleagues. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 16 o'clock, I invite everyone to the conference room to continue our work.
