ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u1	Good morning! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. Colleagues, please, we're taking up jobs. Please prepare for registration. And I'd like you to sign up. Let's register. [[10:03:33]] 363 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleagues: Igor Sergiyovich Aleksiev. Welcome, Mr. Igor. And Maxima Anatoliyovich Polyakov. Welcome, my friends. Dear colleagues, so the second round of elections took place on Sunday, and it should be noted that the elections took place at the highest European level, and all international observers mark the high level of elections in Ukraine. And I think Ukrainian society, Ukrainian authorities have demonstrated high standards of European politics. And then, right after the election, when the President of Ukraine of the newly elected President greeted the exit-field, it was completely in line with European traditions. Because we remember that, unfortunately, we did not have such a practice during the previous elections. So I welcome everyone to the conclusion of the presidential election. I hope that political emotion will go away, and we will be able to move on to the systematic and constructive work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to remind you, colleagues, that this week we have the opportunity to finally complete the review of the rights to the Language Law. There's 251 left over. Experience shows that we go through about 200 rights a day. And so before that, I predict that we will be able to complete the review of the rights during today and tomorrow. And then, attention will be given to the committee, the Knieżický Cultural Committee, to which all factions are invited to speak together, to which right we should return, to which right will be presented in the new edition, and this document will be posted on the website and distributed to every national MP, so that everyone who is in the room will know exactly what position we are voting for. I think it's going to be one of the most important days for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to vote on the Language Act. I predict that at 11 a.m., we will be able to switch to the vote on Clean Thursday. On Thursday, as we accepted decommunization, I am convinced that we will be able to support and adopt the Language Law. So I would like to point out in advance that Thursday at 11 a.m. all national deputies should be in the hall. I am convinced that voters will see that the entire Ukrainian society will watch how the MPs work on this day. This is one of the most fundamental laws to which we have long gone and long awaited. And that's why, colleagues, full mobilization on Clear Thursday. And I'm convinced on the Clean Thursday we're going to have the Language and Ukraine Act, and Ukrainian society. After that, I'm going to propose a cluster of security issues, particularly the issue of anti-optimal activity. And this bill needs immediate adoption, and I urge everyone to mobilize on a safe block. The same will be true of the holding of the spring session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Ukraine. I think it's a great success for both the Ukrainian delegation and the Ukrainian state. And I personally initiated this, for the first time in Ukraine, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Deputies from all countries of the Euro-Atlantic space of the following spring will arrive in Ukraine for the holding of the Parliamentary Assembly. This is one of the few examples where the Parliamentary Assembly is held in Ukraine. And, colleagues, I also propose a fourth block of legislation on reform of parliament. The interim commission of inquiry is what we agreed on in the "Monet Dialogues" all the heads of factions, this is the D'Ondt method of committee distribution, this is the number of committees. And I think we have a good chance of a block of issues on reform of parliament to be adopted this Thursday. And that's why, colleagues, I urge everyone on Thursday to fully mobilize. We've been looking at the revisions for a long time, and this Thursday we have the ability to show effective and effective work. And a final message. It is now 75 years old from the beginning of the largest fighting of the Ukrainian rebel army with Bolshevik punishments from the NKVD. On April 23-24, in the forest around the village of Gurba and Antonovci in the Plains, 15,000 encavedists surrounded 5,000 fighters of the Ukrainian rebel army. The UPA has given us a worthy fight. It was the largest fight of the UPA, able to exit the environment and destroy a great deal of power. a lot of enemies. We were raised on the example of a heroic hunchback fight. Praise be to the courageous participants in the battle and glory of Ukraine. And to those who scream, who disrespect our history and our memory, history will lead to a worthy place in our history. Don't yell, there won't be any money. So, colleagues, we continue our consideration of the Language Law. But before that, I remind you, we have 30 minutes of performances from MP factions and groups. I remind you, today it's from MPs, not deputies, but factions and groups. So I'm asking everyone to record a speech from the rostrum. Please, colleagues. From the People's Front faction, I invite you to speak to the head of the Maxim Burbak faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u2	Congratulations, colleagues. Ukraine went through the President’s election with dignity. We have every right to claim that we are going to a constant course of democratic state. In five years, Ukraine has experienced positive and unprecedented transformations. Much of these achievements were initiated and implemented by the coalition governments of Yatsenuk and Groysman, and thanks to the active work of the People's Front faction in the Supreme Council: visa-freeness, energy independence, protection of Ukrainian language, opposition to Russian propaganda, sanctions against Russia, macroeconomic and financial stability, priority financing of the Ukrainian army, education reform and the IMF. These are the results that will always be proud of the People's Front. On April 21, Ukraine elected a new president. Presidential responsibility is clearly enshrined in the Constitution: security, the army, the protection of rights and freedoms, foreign policy. And the President is obliged to abide by the Basic Law, where it is now clearly stated that Ukraine is going to NATO and the European Union, that is the will of the Ukrainian people. The key task of the new president is to return the occupied territories and protect Ukraine from Russian armed aggression. This is the most difficult and important task at the same time. I emphasize that the People's Front will not allow questionable scenarios and dangerous deals with a formidable enemy of Ukraine. The People's Front will be on the lookout for any rematch and surrender attempts. We will under any circumstances protect all the gains of Ukraine that have been given to the Ukrainian people at the price of sweat and blood. The president, the government and parliament must work together and lead the country to success. We expect to hear from the new president about the planned steps for the first 100 days, the first year, and the entire term. Ukraine now needs honesty and realism more than ever. In the fall, parliamentary elections will take place. These elections will depend on what the new parliamentary majority will be, which will be the new government, and whether we will continue our journey to the EU and NATO, whether we will continue to strengthen our state. In these days we must conclude our consideration and approve the Law on State Language. This is a wonderful law that regulates the functioning of the national language. I emphasize, regulates, rather than imposes on the Ukrainian language, as advocates of "Russian peace" have always said. The law is the most beautiful and liberal in Europe. If we are to protect our nation, we must protect the national language. Parliament has come to the end of its consideration of the bill, and we have to adopt this law on Thursday. The national Ukrainian language is the foundation of national security. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u3	Heroim Slava! And I'd like to invite you to the word from "The Rebirth Party" Bishop Andrija Fedorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u4	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, 35th constituency, the city of Nicopol and the city of Pochrov, the region of Nicopol. Dear national MPs, dear voters! We saw the Conciliation Council yesterday, and it just covered everyone up in spring. And thank God. The results of the elections showed that the time for change had come, and the Ukrainian people would no longer wait. Everyone who works in this room needs to understand that the fate of responsibility is also in Parliament. Because in the Supreme Council, there have been laws that Ukrainians need for years. Not the pharaohs, not the electoral ones, but the ones people are waiting for. I want to remind you that three days later, it's the next anniversary of the tragedy in the Chernobyl AES. Thirty-three years have passed! And we don't want the fate of the Chernobyl people to remain out of the spotlight of Parliament. No authorities in Ukraine have fulfilled their obligations to these people. In the last five years, documents that narrowed down the rights of Chernobyl, limited social benefits, and compensated the authorities. In fact, pensions had been frozen for the Chernobylites, and the European Court of Human Rights had not been ruled on behalf of the victims, and not only of the Ukrainians but also of the European Court of Human Rights. Under this authority, the number of Chernobylites in Ukraine has decreased by 45 percent! Think about it! This data from the Court of Auditors from January 1st 2015 to July 2018: the number of black people receiving the benefits decreased by 750 thousand. Have these people returned to health or have their problems disappeared? As early as April 2017, Bill 6292 was drafted by the deputy group Rebirth on the basis of the recommendations of the Chernobyl organizations. It is the first comprehensive attempt to reform legislation for all categories of Chernobyl. Dear Mr. Head, two years ago here, in this very place, I personally handed you 10,000 signatures of the Chernobyls and the disaster fighters with one requirement: to immediately submit Bill 6292 for consideration. It's supported by the entire hall, all the factions, all the society. It's been two years. Where are these signatures? Why is this bill still not in the hall? We demand that this Thursday, when you say you'll have full mobilization in the hall, put it to the vote, and you'll see full support, and it'll make it easier for you, and it'll make it easier for you. It will be a small but big step forward after the development of a socially just state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u5	The opposition block is Novinsky Vadim Vladislavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u6	Respectable Ukrainians, respected colleagues, and last Sunday the Ukrainian people gave an assessment of what happened to Ukraine over the past five years. And it's not even about Peter Dustenck's person, it's about the system he headed. The people of Ukraine expressed themselves against the artificial division to the east and west, against war, poverty, hypocrisy, against nationalism as a national ideology, against the persecution of the Canonic Orthodox Church, against the copying of history and the conversion of fascists to heroes and experiments with language, against total loss of independence and against foreign administration, against corruption and persecution by political signs. The Ukrainians almost unanimously summed it up and gave their assessment to the authorities. In such a situation, the Supreme Council should hear the signal sent by the people, aware of their responsibility for the situation in the country, for restoring confidence in the State and its institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, I am confident that all of us must finally concentrate on achieving peace and rebuilding Ukraine. We have to do our utmost to achieve real economic growth, industrial recovery and social standards, finally to protect the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. Unfortunately, though, I must say that the Council’s leadership and a large part of the deputies have not yet learned the lesson of the presidential campaign or realized why the current authorities have lost the election. The language law before the Supreme Council is totally harmful in terms of the unity of Ukraine, because it violates the constitutional rights of millions of our citizens. It is noteworthy that aggressive language politics has become one of the reasons why a failed team loses. We consider it appropriate to move on to the more important issues that Ukrainian citizens expect of us. We need to make a decision as soon as possible to guarantee that parliamentary elections are held on the basis of open lists, and I mean the need to adopt a new electoral code. It also needs an immediate review of the Opposition Act, which would strengthen the rights and political capabilities of opposition in Ukraine and bring the situation in the Council into line with the world standards of democracy. If this is done, the Supreme Council will be a safeguard against any attempt to concentrate or usurp power, and its activities will be in the interests of the whole country, not just one political power. It is also necessary to work out, harmonize with the Rules, and adopt the Law concerning the Commissions of the Supreme Council. The country must be protected from authoritarianism and self - control, and the political system must be balanced. If the system is flawed, we need to draw conclusions and correct mistakes rather than claim that a people who does not understand the great intentions of the great politicians is wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u7	30 seconds, please. Oh, you're done. Thank you. From the "Block of Peter Prashenko" is the head of the faction of Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u8	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! Ukraine has demonstrated to the world that we are a state with a high level of democracy, where one of the fundamental rights of citizens is to choose their own power. The whole world saw and confirmed it. Despite Russian aggression, in the face of endless fairies and information attacks, President Peter Poroshenko ensured the protection of the free will of citizens. "Thank you!" Thousands of people spoke to Petra Prashenko yesterday at the President's Administration and millions all over Ukraine. People thanked President Dusty for his tremendous contribution to the protection of the state during its most difficult trials. On behalf of our faction, as well as the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, I want to thank all the voters who came to the polls and voted. I would like to express my special thanks to more than 4 and a half million Ukrainians who voted for Peter Poroshenko and for the independent, strong, European Ukraine. Without any doubt, the team of Peter Prashenko will continue to defend all gains over the past five years, and above all, to protect the strategy for the return of Ukrainians to the circle of European peoples, cooperation and inclusive integration into the European Union and NATO. Since the beginning of Russian aggression, Supreme Commander Peter Poroshenko has built the strongest army in national history. Remember, at the beginning of 2014, there was almost nothing: the technology was dismantled and sold out, the first columns of defense were going to the front of the school buses. Now we have a fully combative, motivated and socially protected army that is recognized as one of the strongest on the continent. Peter Porcelain has succeeded in uniting a powerful international antichrist coalition that, through sanctions, political pressure, the provision of defence weapons, helps us to fight for the restoration of Ukraine’s territorial integrity. And we're going to protect it. Thanks to its insistent policy, the EU has given the warring country a visa-free regime. The authority of the Ukrainian passport has increased considerably. The carlessness is now in operation with 130 countries in the world, and this gain will also be protected. Despite the war under the presidency of Peter Prashenka, the country’s economy came out of its peak and began to grow. Also: areas of free trade with the EU, Canada, Ukrainian ProZorro, energy independence and much more. And we don't forget to win the Gazprom in Stockholm, which allowed us to break the cabal gas contracts and get compensation for almost 140 billion dollars. And the decentralization reform initiated by Peter Dustenke. Modern schools, kindergartens, roads, and modern European infrastructure are opened everywhere. This is Ukraine’s unique experience when President Peter Poroshenko successfully implemented this reform in wartime conditions. At the end of this week, Easter. For the first time in 333 years, believers will be forced to consecrate the holiday baskets to their own autocafal Orthodox Church of Ukraine, the main foundation for the spiritual restoration of Ukraine. No less important was decommunization, the cleansing of cultural space from Soviet heritage.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u9	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u10	There has been tremendous progress in promoting Ukrainian language, cinema, music, and literature. This week the Supreme Council will finally, I'm sure, pass a bill on the state language. Of course, this edition was guaranteed to be signed. will be signed by Peter Prashenko. We have finally laid a solid foundation for the European state of today. And when someone says that nothing has been done in the country in the last five years, he'll just confirm that he's just "cut off" from saving the country when. As long as millions of Ukrainians are led by Peter Dustenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u11	Thank you. From the Radical Party, the head of the Lásko faction, Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u12	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. In the presidential election, 73 percent of the Ukrainians said no to the era of greed and poverty built by the government of Dustyenko and its environment. We fully share the position of Ukrainian citizens. That's why the faction of the Radical Party, our team has been in opposition for all these years to the greedy system built by the Dustenka that creates the poverty of the Ukrainians. But I want to warn the Ukrainians that the system of greed and poverty that got knocked out on Sunday in the presidential election, if it didn't get, if it wasn't finally destroyed, could be revived. So we propose a plan to destroy the system of greed built in Ukraine. Presidential impeachment law: the head of state, regardless of his name, must be accountable and accountable to society and citizens. The Law on Temporary Investigative Commissions is an active parliamentary control, a safeguard against the usurpation of power. Taking away the integrity of the President, the deputies and the judges, all citizens must be equal before the law. A change in the electoral system: the abolition of the majority, the introduction of proportional elections for open lists -- the best cures for political corruption. Reducing the number of parliamentary deputies to 250 men is quite enough for the work of the Supreme Council to be effective. The removal by the President of the unconstitutional powers that Peter Poroshenko has acquired in order to enrich himself and his own environment. Real judicial reform: full replacement of all judges, direct election of judges by the people according to the example of the American model and many others. The end of the poverty era is a first-time review of the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, a reduction in gas prices and municipal tariffs. When the new president and his team say they're not responsible for this, I want to say that, according to the Constitution, the President has the right to cancel the government's decision. It was President Poshenko who signed a memorandum with the IMF on the basis of which space tariffs are being paid to Ukrainians today. We call on the newly elected president to immediately request a review of the IMF memorandum and cancel the government's decision to increase tariffs. The end of the poverty era is a radical change in economic policy in the interests of national production, it is an immediate review of the budget to clean up from there all the corruption schemes established by the former authorities, and saved billions -- to raise wages, recalculate pensions, to live for young people and restore justice. The end of the age of greed and poverty.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u13	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction to the word, the head of the Oleg Beresuk faction is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u14	In the early 20th century, the British Parliament had such words that it was Ukraine that had an incredible impact, and the situation in Ukraine, European peace and diplomacy. It was Lancelot Lawton who told the British Parliament that the Ukrainian problem was the result of one of the greatest political frauds in our history. And today it is clear that the main instrument against the state was fraud, and today it is the fraud of the oligarchy and our enemy. And it's clear that the main instrument against this fraud is the Ukrainian people, the people that are going up, the people who have been defending their Ukrainian state several times over the past few decades against the underprivileged government, against the underprivileged oligarchic schemes, against the age-old enemy one by one. And today, the Ukrainian people are putting new tasks, new old tasks that the authorities always promise, but they don't. And the first is justice. Everyone has to be equal before the law and the key legislative initiative is what? There's a removal of the immunity from the judges, a removal of the immunity from the deputies, a removal of the immunity from the President of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine is not a monarch, the President of Ukraine is an official of the Ukrainian people. Strength is the next requirement. A Ukrainian soldier must be respected and assured. And the key, the key security is for the Ukrainian people. What is needed, what is the key parliamentary initiative and legislative initiative? This is a transparent defense budget of a country that does not want to do so by oligarchy authorities. Security. Security, including the country’s energy security. The production of its own gas, the oil needs to be increased, not reduced. We need to build oil mining and processing infrastructure, not destroy it. It's not just the country's security, it's prosperity. And an undeniably crucial parliamentary initiative is the adoption of a law for destruction, for the destruction of Rotterdam Plus. Economics. The law that will say that the tax on the capital output is the basis of investment, domestic investment of the country and the development of business. Why is it so against this oligarchy machine? Because there's a strong middle class of Ukrainian people growing up. Ukraine is rich. Ukraine is strong. Ukraine may. Who am I telling today? I say that today to the authorities, to the President, to Parliament and to the government. People need to be served, not robbed, and people appreciate it by doing so. This is a very important job today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u15	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u16	from the Ukrainian people of the 21st century. Self-help stood, stood and stood in defense of Ukrainian national interests, security of the country and people, standing by its profession, its stubbornness, its loyalty and its love for the Ukrainian people, who are going up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u17	Thank you. And a closing statement from the factions. From the "Fatherland" faction, Andrew Kožemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u18	Good afternoon, colleagues! Dear Head! Dear colleagues! First. The democratic elections of the President of Ukraine took place in Ukraine. Ukraine has elected a new president and we should all respect that choice. The second round of elections took place without serious disturbances, and we should thank the law enforcement agencies, particularly the Minister of Interior and the National Police, and all the employees for providing them with public security and order during the electoral process. The other one. Yesterday, at the Conciliation Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and faction leaders, almost everyone pointed out the need for the adoption of laws on the impeachment of the President and on the provisional commissions of the Supreme Council. I'll tell you that the draft Law on the Order of the impeachment of President No.1097 was registered by me personally and by Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko on 28 November 2014. Please include it in the order of the day and let us consider. The draft Law on Temporary Commissions and Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine No. 1098, which was also submitted in due course by me and Julius Volodymyrý Timoshenko, Andrey Volodymyrovich Parubi, Mrs. Siroid, Mr. Berezuk, was also registered on 28 November 2014. Please, without a word, as they say, we are taking the calls to the Supreme Council for consideration. Let us consider and take the initiative. Third. It is now necessary to meet the requirements of a law whereby no payment can be lower than a minimum of living. I'm not talking about this level anymore. But even after it, the minimum pension should be not less than 4 thousand 425 dollars. People don't get that money either. This is the result of a corrupt circular commission that allows officials to avoid liability in this matter. The release from corruption begins with equality before the law and the irreversibility of punishment for all. He who violates it must be punished. Right now we have a chance, a chance directly at the Supreme Council, to start destroying this system and the circle system and to fight corruption. Fourth and last. Actually, the question is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u19	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u20	In fact, the issue today is not behind or against the changes that everyone is talking about in Ukraine today after the President's election. The Ukrainians chose change, and that is the main conclusion. Now it's up to the new President and you, your esteemed colleagues, whether these changes will be chaotic and superficial or effective, will justify people's expectations, will add confidence in the future. We, the Fatherland Party, the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u21	Thank you. So, colleagues, the factions of the faction are complete. And I invite the head of the Andria Cultural Committee to the rostrum. Mikola Knieżicky. First, one minute to remind me of the law. And I ask the right-wing authors to prepare for the discussion, and Mikola Knieżicki includes a microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear friends, we continue to consider the Law on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language. I want to remind you that this is the order of consideration. After we have passed all the amendments, our Committee on Culture and Spirituality will meet to take into account the wishes of the national deputies, and we invite factions and groups to our committee. Let's agree on the final vote to be put to the vote. I believe that we will adopt the law. It is especially gratifying that President Peter Poroshenko said that his faction would support this bill, and he would sign it. Vladimir Zelenski, leader of the presidential race, said he supported the status and development of the Ukrainian language. This gives us hope that we finally have the gap that we have since the law passed back in 89. We will fulfill, we will adopt a democratic law that will in no way threaten people who speak other languages, in any way affect the private sphere of communication, but protect Ukrainian language in the Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u23	Thank you, colleagues. So in those closing days, the discussion must be made of all the myths that try to hang on to the Language Law. It is a progressive, modern, European law. The Law on Language is available to all countries, most of the countries in the European Union, even in Russia is the Language Law, and Ukraine is one of the few who do not. So, colleagues, let's get to work. And I'm reminding you, we're done on the right hand side of 1832. Now we're looking at 1833. The authors are Germany and Shufrich. 1833. And I'm asking you to turn on Nestor Shufrich's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u24	Thank you. The esteemed presiding officer, respected colleagues, insists that part two of article 6 be expelled and that no additions be made. We think that the bill is still quite complicated. It's already very balanced today and overloading Transitions is unnecessary. That's why we're asking today to put this to a vote on the exclusion of the relevant part of the second article 6 and not to burden "Transitional positions" and the whole law with new novelties. We hope that during the final process of this law, he will be balanced in the committee and one that will please society rather than disunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u25	Thank you for explaining your correction. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u26	Thank you. We can't delete this right here in the way that the law exists now. But when we consider our law on the committee, as I said before, we take into account the amendments to the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Media, the wish of many factions that we will not change the Television and Broadcasting Act. But in this option, the committee rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u27	Thank you. Colleagues, please identify yourself for amendment 1833. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:39:24]] For-25 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 1834. Please, Mrs. Sumar, give me your word. Don't you insist? Thank you. The next one is 1836. Mr. Shufrich, your word. Please. 1836.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u28	Thank you. We think that in "Transitional positions," it's too much to mention the humiliation or contempt of Ukrainian language. This law is still quite provocative. And we want him to unite our country, to unite society. Of course, we will not allow anyone to disrespect the language of the State. But to focus on that, we think, in this case, it's too expensive and quite provocative. Once again, I emphasize, we hope that when this law is being prepared for final drafting, these inadequacies will be removed and the law will become less complex and more acceptable to humans. And this is the purpose of our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u29	Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u30	Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to remind you that, as you recall, the question of responsibility for public defamation of speech was excluded from criminal persecution before the adoption of the law in the first reading. Indeed, when we discuss the committee's law on Wednesday, we invite all factions, including those who participated actively in the discussion, you, Comrade Schufrich, to a committee meeting. Now the committee has rejected this amendment, but we'll talk again about all the corrections at the committee meeting on Wednesday. Now the committee has rejected this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u31	Thank you. Be determined, colleagues, after the amendment of 1836. [[10:41:44]] For-23 The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1837. Mrs. Overlord. Please. Please, Mr. Papiev, give me your word. Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u32	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! You know, this law, it's in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's consideration of practically the third plenary week. And I want to draw attention once again before I say about this particular amendment that it's a law, although it's called the "Act on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State," but the content of this law is designed in such a way that this law on the prohibition of the use of Russian, as a national minority, Romanian, Hungarian, Crimean Tatar, Bulgarian and many other languages. And we are once again drawing the attention of all the national deputies of Ukraine. We will give each voter the names of those who support this law, which violates the rights of citizens who violate European standards. And I would ask you not to violate both the Rules and the Constitution of Ukraine and not to introduce the Final Positions into profile laws. Do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u33	Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u34	Thank you. To that end, there is a perfectly legal procedure that is confirmed by the Constitutional Court. That there are changes to the profile laws, not in "Final Positions", but in the draft law amending the profile law. You're setting it up now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u35	Thank you for your clarification. Please, I ask the chairman of the committee on this amendment to explain, because the committee supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u36	Thank you. The committee supported the amendment. It's actually technical. Once again, the law does not limit any language. In addition to those who know Mr. Papiev, and he called maybe ten languages that exist in the world, in the world much more languages, no language that exists in Ukraine or in the world, its use in the private sphere is limited by the law. The public will feel it. Citizens will feel that after the adoption of this law, any social tension will disappear, Ukrainians in Ukraine will feel protected. People who communicate in other languages will feel that their rights are not violated. They'll understand how they were fooled by pseudo-protectors who are trying to shake things up in our peaceful multinational country. The committee doesn't mind putting this bill on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u37	Colleagues, please identify yourself for this amendment. Please support her as called for by the committee that has taken this amendment into account. I'd like to make a statement. We're putting her on the stand as required by the People's Deputy Papiev. Please be supportive. [[10:44:40]] For-35 Let's move on. The next amendment, 1839. People's deputy shufrich's word. This is an amendment to him and to Mr. German. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u38	We ask questions about the deletion of the corresponding article for the same reasons that the preceding article was proposed. Today, we are concerned that this law, which is still extremely difficult to understand in society, is also limited by the additional changes that we believe cannot be contained in Transitional Positions. This law must be balanced, it must be one that does not create contradictions. This is the main objective of the resolution of the language issue in Ukraine, which is to comply with the 10th article of the Constitution. So we insist that we rule out the corresponding paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u39	Thank you. Will the committee be explained or voted on? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u40	Yes! The committee rejected the amendment. But as I said before, in view of the large number of questions that relate to the Television and Broadcasting Act, we're going to discuss this on a committee Wednesday, and obviously in preparing the final bill, we're going to take into account the thoughts of all the MPs who made that point, including colleagues of Shufric, but this amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u41	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for amendment in 1830. Please. [[10:46:44]] For-22. The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1840. Please, Mikola Knieżicki, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u42	Thank you. This is my amendment that in the text, the words and figures "75 percent" should be replaced by the words "100 percent," that is, 100 percent on Ukrainian television and radio should be in Ukrainian -- that's my personal position. The committee’s position was to reduce this figure to 90 percent. The position of many national MPs is either to set a transitional period or to leave a valid bill of 75 percent. Nevertheless, I ask that my amendment be made in full. Thank you. For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u43	Colleagues, please identify yourself. I'm putting the 1840 amendment in full volume, please be sure. [[10:47:45.]] For-40 The amendment remains with the committee. The following amendment was made in 1841 by German and Shufrich. Please, the word of Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u44	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We definitely do not accept the position that the language of television and radio talk in Ukraine is national language. We respect the national language with the utmost respect, but to impose the use of national language on television and radio, we consider it a violation of the 10th article of the Constitution, which provides the possibility of using other languages, including Russian, and other languages of national minorities. Article 10 of the Constitution guarantees the right to use other languages. We believe that owners and journalists have the right to determine for themselves which language to broadcast accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u45	Finish up. 15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u46	I think it's a journalist's right first of all to choose the language in which he will communicate with the TV set, with the radio set and with the guests in the studio, as well as the right of the guests in the studio to determine the language.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u47	Thank you. I understand your position. In principle, you gave it away. Please comment to the committee head. And, I think, colleagues, that Mr. Knieżicki has already pointed out several times that on Wednesday, during the Committee's meeting, a special discussion will be devoted to the amendments that the PSC has proposed in order to address the law more correctly and precisely the issues relating to media and public language. Please, Mr. Knieżicki, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, you know that the indignation of many Ukrainian citizens has caused the fact that the Ukrainian language on television has been presented at all minimally. After defending the Ukrainian language, we accepted the corresponding quotas, and 75 percent of the language on television should be in English. This standard is being fulfilled and even overworked. And current television channels and Ukrainian citizens are satisfied with this standard. There are many people, and I have reflected in my amendment the position of these people, the previous people, who think that in Ukraine television should be Ukrainian at all. This amendment was rejected by the committee because it existed in the law in force. And by the way, there was a TV bill. Since we haven't changed it, we can't support it, but that's the norm in the Television and Radio Act of 1996, and no one has suffered from it, and no one has said that we have limited freedom of speech. This law on the protection of the Ukrainian language, not its complete destruction on television and radio. Because of this, the committee rejected her. But once again, Wednesday we're going to talk about it, as the chairman said, and I'm going to invite Nestor Schuffric.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u49	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u50	I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u51	The chairman of the committee invites Mr. Nestor Schufrich, and Mr. Germany, and all other colleagues to the committee on Wednesday to go to the final version of the Law on the Functioning of the State Language, and that is very wise. Please, I'm asking you to identify yourself for amendment to 1841, colleagues. [[10:51:39]] For-16 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment, 1842. Please, this is also the correction of Germany and Shufrich. The word is given to Mr. Nestor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u52	Thank you. This is a continuation of the previous question. The relevant paragraph reads as follows: "The application of languages in television and radio broadcasting defines this law and the Ukrainian Act on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language." I have to repeat that imposing the use of national language on journalists, television and radio broadcasters is a gross violation of constitutional rights, both by the leaders themselves and by Ukrainian citizens who are entitled to receive information in their own language. And I agree with my colleagues that the names of those who vote in favour of this law will, as the people say, be put on display, and people will know who violates the constitutional rights of our citizens to use and listen to their native language, with all due respect for the Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u53	Thank you. And please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u54	Thank you. This rule says that "the use of languages in television and radio is defined by this law and by the Ukrainian Act on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language." Period. There's nothing else this norm is talking about. As we balance these laws, we'll be on the committee on Wednesday. Obviously, no one here would mind having Ukrainian citizens watch TV in their own language, whatever it may be. But just as Ukrainian citizens in the country of Ukraine, for whom Ukrainian language is native, most of them also have the right to have their native language protected on Ukrainian television. This is our goal. The committee rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u55	Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for this amendment, please. [[10:53:52]] For-16 The correction is being rejected. The following amendment was made in 1843, as was the authorship of Mr. Germany and Mr. Shufrich. Please, Mr. Nestor, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u56	Thank you. This is a continuation of the previous amendments. We complete the logic, the logic of our amendments, and we propose a corresponding paragraph, which reads: "In the part of the first article 70 after paragraph five, add paragraph six of the sentence: 'Legislative language legislation'. We would not object to such a textual correction if it did not in its essence limit the right to use native language when receiving information from television and radio. I say again, editorially, it's not bad, but it actually cements what we're up against, namely: forcing, forcing the use of public language. And what I want to say is that in the European Parliament resolution, it was about promoting the development of the Ukrainian language as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u57	Finish up, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u58	Our European colleagues have pointed out that they advocate for promoting the use of Ukrainian as a national language rather than forcing it to be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u59	Thank you, Mr. Nestor. And I'm asking for a comment from the committee head. Is there no need? No, no, no, no, no. Let's be clear, shall we? Yes. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u60	Thank you, thank you, Comrade Shufrich. This amendment is not about any restrictions. She predicts that the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio is monitoring the use of language on television. We have two institutions in this bill: this is the Authorized Institute, which controls the use of language, and the National Council for Television and Radio. We've taken these functions completely to the Commissioner, and we've actually handed them over to the National Television and Radio Council, which is a collective body, a democratic body, where half are appointed by the President, and half are the Ukrainian Parliament. So from our point of view, this is a completely democratic logical norm, so the committee rejected this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u61	Thank you, Your Honor. And I'd like to make my mark on this amendment. [[10:56:38]] For-21 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment, 1846. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Papiev. Excuse me, please. Yeah, 1845. People's deputy, Papi's word. Colleagues, this amendment has been taken into account. People's MP Papiew.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, Your Honor Chairman, I am now addressing the rapporteur. I will be, and I have already authorized the preparation of an appropriate draft decree that the rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been strictly violated in the course of this bill's consideration. Well, look, we're given a table. As for the previous amendment of 1840, it says, "it's included in the committee's editor" -- and next to that table, where it should be final, proposed by the Main Committee, it's not as good as this standard. Amendment 1845, this is the people's deputy of Tretlyakov, written: "included in the committee's drafting", is near the absence of an entirely editorial committee. In fact, you gave an incomplete table to the Ukrainian National Deputies, which makes it impossible for them to finally accept and decide on the proposed amendment. That is why this law is being considered in violation of the rules of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u63	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u64	Thank you. Thank you. This question is really included in the committee's editorials, both in Transitional Positions and in the body of the law itself, particularly in articles 24 and 56. I'm glad, colleague, that you're giving orders, that I'm actually preparing my own decisions and bringing them into the hall at my own signature. Give the commission to read the law again carefully and to tell you where these amendments are included in the law, since the table is given according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u65	Please, colleagues, identify yourself. And I'm asking you to support this amendment that deals with confirmation. Please. Full-scale. Please. [[10:58:55]] For-33 Correction. After this amendment. The next one is 1846. Please, so is the People's MP Papiew.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear Mikolo Leonidovich, don't you understand, right now, even after the vote on the first and second rounds that Ukrainian citizens have shown you to all these aggressive politicians who, for the war that has intervened in general on the question of the Orthodox Church, are now interfering with the language that citizens don't support these belligerent beginnings. That is why I once again urge you to tell people the truth. When I said I've given the commission, yes, the assistants are preparing, and it's perfectly normal when the assistants are preparing and the Ukrainian national deputy reads, it's written because the assistants are lawyers, and they're preparing all the amendments. But look again at the table and do not deceive people, the table does not contain the final text proposed by the committee. So the Ukrainian national deputies vote for what, and then you vote for what, and then you vote in a comfortable manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u67	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u68	And then after that, and you'll see it, and we've seen more than once when we adopt laws that you're going to write this rule of the article as conveniently as you are. That is why I insist that you abide by the Rules and put to the vote those amendments and the final texts that are in the table. Your editor is missing this article's norm. Do not deceive people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u69	Thank you for your clarification of your position. I'll remind you that this amendment was taken into account by the committee. I would like to give the floor to the committee's head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, we work completely within the Rules. The Rules contain only one text taken into account by the committee. Because if you take the position of a colleague who just took the floor, you're going to have to mark the same text in every cell in front of a lot of rights. And then the law will contain ten pieces of the same standard. Because in the column on the right it will repeat around each edit. So just read the law. By the way, the leader of the political power in which I am is not taking part in the election. The leader of the political power you are in was involved. And the people have shown how much he trusts or does not trust the leader of this political power. I want to tell you that our political power is taking a firm stand against war. In its campaign against war, it is decisively opposed to Russian aggression, against the occupation of Crimea, Donetsk and Lugansk. I want you to be a patriot of Ukraine, not a manipulator in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this amendment in its entirety. Please be sure. [[11:02:08]] For-22. The amendment remains with the committee. Please, the next one is 1847. Mr. Papiev, after 1847, I'll give you my word. Please, this is the amendment of 1847 of the German and Shufric People's Deputies. The word is given to Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u72	Thank you, thank you, Your Honor Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u73	We just passed, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u74	I'm sorry, can I return the word Papiev? He's got it, he's got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Papiev, that was already 46th. No, no, you and I voted 45th, it was Tretyakova's amendment, then 46th, it was Parasuka's amendment. And now we have 47 amendments, yes. Mr. Papiev, I'm following the course of our discussion. Please give the floor to National Deputy Schuffritch right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u76	Thank you. Vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u77	We voted 45th and 46th. Now it's your turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u78	We're looking at an amendment right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u79	Mr. Papiev, I'm even offended that you don't believe me! Well, what is it? We voted 47th. Now there's 46 amendments to the amendment. Please, Mr. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u80	For the stenographer. Mikhail Papiev insists that 1846 has not been considered. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u81	The Presidency is always right. You know, well, what you're arguing about is three minutes after the correction we made. Please, yours is now 47th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u82	Indeed, Amendment 1846 was voted on and not supported. Amendment 1847, which already applies to the use of language in sports. People are good, let's leave the athletes alone. I understand the national competition, the national level: the Ukrainian Cup, the Ukrainian Championship. I get it more or less. But imagine a local competition where Romanians compete at national level, but they are Ukrainian citizens. Well, why them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u83	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u84	Why limit them to the freedom to use and enjoy their mother tongue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u85	Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u86	Thank you. This amendment in no way regulates the communication of Romanians who compete as Hungarians and even Ukrainians. This amendment regulates the language of broadcasting. Since this Law on Language introduces precise rules on the use of national language, appropriate regulation should also be included in the article of the Professional Law on Physical Culture and Sports. Thus, the amendment was taken into account, for it was the Supreme. More loyally, it was rejected, for the Supreme Council is to eliminate all potential conflicts between the norms of different laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u87	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for amendment to 1847. [[11:05:44]] For the 17th. Next amendment. So this is a rejection. The next one is 1848. This is also the amendment of Germany and Shufrich. And the word is given to Nestor Sufrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u88	Thank you for your attention. I want to insist once again that the previous amendment was the beginning of the corresponding changes that included in the Transitional Positions novels that would affect the possibility of using languages during sporting activities. Our position is unalterable. At least in the sports arena, let us avoid interfering with the language of our athletes and their coaches. We think that the regulation of this issue and the emphasis on this point in the Transitional Positions of the law that we are considering is inappropriate and one that will only complicate the possibility of communication between our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u89	Thank you. Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u90	Thank you. This amendment, I say again, in no way limits athletes, coaches and all the other contestants to each other, the right to communicate with each other in whatever language these people want. Actually, we've already looked at the block on sports broadcasts that were related to sports. And "transitional positions" only make the rules of this law, they mention this law in those laws that apply to physical culture and sports. So the committee rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u91	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for amendment in 1848. [[11:07:47]] For -14 The correction is being rejected. The next is 1849, and so is the authorship of Germany and Shufrich. And please, Nestor Ivanovich, give you your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u92	This is the last amendment that refers to the reference or reference in "Transitional Positions" to the Act on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State issue relating to the use of language in sports competitions, including all sports. We think that in "Transitional Positions" of this law, it is absolutely unnecessary to mention this in both form and essentially. We insist that the state should not interfere in the language of communication between athletes, between trainers, with the official announcements that may take place during the competition. We consider it appropriate to use the language that is natural for participants in one or the other contests. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u93	Finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u94	In doing so, we do not question the use of Ukrainian in national competitions, Ukrainian championships and Ukrainian cups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u95	Thank you. And please, here's the committee head's comment. Let me remind you, we're looking at the 1849 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u96	Thank you. Well, once again, in which I want to emphasize that the law does not regulate the language of communication between athletes and trainers, there is no way in which it interferes. Obviously, for participants in competitions held in Ukraine, there is usually a Ukrainian language and the law regulates only the language of these broadcasts. Thus, the amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u97	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself. Please identify yourself for this amendment. [[11:10:14]] For the 17th. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 1850. Similarly, the authorship of German and Shufric deputies. And I'm asking the microphone to turn Mr. Shufrich on. Nestor Ivanovich, 1850.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u98	Thank you. We've just finished discussing the changes that we've been proposing in Transitions to show the possibility of using languages in sports, and now we're starting to do the same in language transport. I think, and my colleagues think that transport should have a language that's more convenient for a particular region. For the vast majority of the territories and our citizens, it will certainly be Ukrainian. But there are cases where, unfortunately, the English language is simply not understood properly. I'm not saying they won't understand at all. And there may be a lot of inconvenience. That is why we insist that these novices be expelled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u99	Thank you for your clarification. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u100	Thank you. Article 36 states: “The language of passenger service in transport is the national language. At the request of the passenger, his individual service may be performed in another language acceptable to the parties." I mean, it's the law that says that in transport, if you don't understand, you can communicate in another language, you can't limit it. In this case, we're only talking about "transient positions" and the reference to this rule in another profile law, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u101	Please identify yourself after the amendment of 1850. [[11:12:24]] For the 17th. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment, 1852. It's the same thing. Amendment 1851, please, National MP Ivan Sporish. Please, John Sporish, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u102	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, here, indeed, is Kothwig's revision, and it should be taken into account in general. Why? Because we can see that right over here. So in our opinion, article 36 on State language in the field of transport, the bill on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language, as a national language, regulates language issues in transport. This includes what Nestor Shufrich said. If necessary, information can be duplicated in English and in international passenger communication also in the official language of the country with which the appropriate means of transport is made. I think this amendment was taken into account in the committee's drafting. I'd like to hear anyway that it was confirmed as a whole. And I insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u103	I'm asking you to put this amendment in full scope. Please comment to the committee head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleague Sporish, as this amendment reads: "In all forms of passenger transport, railway stations, car terminals, airports, seaports and river ports there are public languages, announcements, messages, inscriptions, reference services. If necessary, this information can be duplicated in English and in international passenger communication in the official language or languages of the country to which it is associated. the connection with which the appropriate means of transport is carried out." So this amendment was taken into account editorially, because only the words "usually" from the Kotwig amendment were removed. But we don't mind that this amendment being made in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u105	Please, colleagues, vote this amendment to the full extent. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:14:44]] For-26 The amendment remains with the committee. The next one is 1852, the National Deputies of Germany and Shufrich. And please, Mr. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u106	We continue the discussion. We approach an article that we consider to be completely unnecessary. It will apply to the language of transport services. And what we're proposing to exclude from the article itself is that we want to stop the discussion on this issue, and not focus once again on the possibility of using languages in transport. There are many life examples where the use of the national language can make communication between citizens within the transport vehicle more difficult. By the way, this can also be a cause of danger in cases of extreme situations. Therefore, we believe that citizens and appropriate local councils should determine their own language. What language should be used.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u107	15 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u108	We believe that the priority right to define the language of use in transport in a particular region and area should be the decision of local authorities, they know exactly which language is more appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u109	Thank you for your clarification. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u110	Thank you. Apparently, this one. Well, first of all, colleagues suggest that we just delete the title of the article, not the article itself, this article itself does not change. Obviously, we talked about this earlier, part of the friction of article 36 says that the language of passenger service in transport is the national language. But, as I said, at the request of the passenger, his individual service may be performed in another language acceptable to the parties. So there's no danger of doing that, you can communicate in different languages in transport, obviously giving priority to the state language, which is the main language. And that's why the committee rejected that proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u111	Thank you. I'm asking you to identify yourself for amendment 1852. [[11:17:22]] For the 17th. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment, 1853, is the same as the National Deputies of Germany, Shufrich. And I'm asking you to turn on Mr. Shufrich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u112	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I listened attentively to the arguments of the report about the possibility of using other languages, as if this law were contributing to such a possibility. But I'm going to read a paragraph that we're now addressing and we're asking you to delete literally, "The language of transport services in Ukraine is the state language." Period. No other possibilities, no use of other languages is spoken of or spoken of. So we insist on removing the corresponding paragraph. Unfortunately, during the previous amendment, we have not succeeded in deleting the entire article, so we will ask that it be deleted in an acknowledgment. And we're accordingly putting this question to a vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u113	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u114	Thank you. Well, a colleague proposes to delete only the first paragraph, but the possibilities of using other languages are discussed in the next paragraph. But the next paragraph is about to be removed by colleagues. It seems to me that this is a perfectly logical article, the language of the state is the language of service. If someone does not understand it, another language may be used. There's no big deal about that. Thank you. The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u115	Thank you. And I'd like to make my mark on amendment 1853. [[11:19:17]] For-16 Let's move on. This amendment is rejected. The next amendment, 1854. Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko, give me your word. Please. Colleagues, this amendment was taken into account by the committee, but Mr. Pisarenko insists on its confirmation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u116	The amendment is technical, really, but I want to say in general that the regulation of using Ukrainian in all areas of life only creates tension. And I've been talking about this, and I'm going to propose to the committee right now, when you're going to look at everything that's been taken up and not taken up, yet I'm going to propose to the Supreme Council not to approve in this paper, not to create even more tension, but to suggest that you send it back for a second reading, taking into account the thoughts that you've heard here, and given what's going on in the matter of language in society, there's a call for politicians not to take advantage of this topic, a pre-election. And then, I think if we sent this bill for re-reading, we'd treat it calmly as professionals. And today, unfortunately, it's a political issue. I suggest we talk in transport as people like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u117	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleague Pisarenko, well, you know, since we don't have this law, there's always a bump around the language issue. Because some feel that Ukrainian as a national in the Ukrainian State is not protected in contrast with Poland, Russia, the Baltic Sea, and many other countries. Others feel that they are not allowed to speak a native language that is not Ukrainian. And politicians speculate on it all the time. We say in this law that we defend the national language, but if someone wants to speak another language in transportation, they have the right to speak it. And so we're taking out all the speculation and kicking tools into those who want to drive Ukraine around the language issue. I realize that for many political forces, this speculation is beneficial, for it is the only way to divide the East and the West, to divide the electorate. And when it's all democratically written in the law -- you can do it in Ukrainian, you can do it in a different way -- then there's nothing around to raise these conflicts and blow them up. That is why we insist on adopting this law in a second reading. And this amendment is really editorial, it changes transports to transport, so I'd like to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u119	Dear Mr. Pisarenko, do you agree? Dear Mr. Pisarenko, do you agree that it is only technical: "transport" -- "transport" -- and we do not put it to the vote? You've expressed your position. You have a microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u120	Yes, I agree that my colleague wanted for the best reason only to correct a language error.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u121	A speech error.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u122	But in the whole discussion of this amendment, I think it's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u123	Thank you. Let's move on. Thank you for your constructive position. And 1855. This is the amendment of the German and Shufrich national deputies. Please, Mr. Shufrich, give me your word. 1855.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I don't understand why we are now the law, which, in our view, is both quite complex and provocative, we're still burdening ourselves with transitional positions with novels that we haven't even talked about before. After the adoption of the relevant articles on "Transitional Regulations" we only complicate the use of languages in other areas and certainly these changes will not contribute to the general acceptance of this law by society. That's why we're proposing to remove the corresponding novels from the Transitional Positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u125	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u126	That's why we're proposing to exclude these novices from the Transitional Regulations and simplify the adoption of this law as far as possible. And I absolutely agree with the idea that perhaps the best thing to do is to send this law back to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u127	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u128	Thank you. I mean, the law doesn't weigh anything down, which is to simplify regulation, we refer to another law in the Transport Act, which clearly regulates the use of languages in transport. If this rule is excluded, it will be necessary to fully duplicate article 36 of the Law on State Language in the Transport Act. I think it's better to just put in a link. That's why the committee rejected it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u129	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for amendment in 1855. Please. [[11:24:47]] For -14 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment of the 1856 National Deputies of Germany and Shufrich. Please, Nestor Ivanovich, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected TV setters, and radio listeners of our citizens! We're done looking at packages that related to the use of national language in the field of sports, in the area of transport. And now we're starting to consider a package on the use of national language in information agencies. We think that in Transitions, it's inappropriate and absolutely unnecessary to mention and intervene in information agencies using the rules of this law. Once again, we insist that this law should correspond to 10 articles of the Constitution, which guarantees the right to use Russian and other languages of national minorities in all areas of activity and, once again, to guarantee the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u131	Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u132	Thank you. Since this law introduces precise rules on the use of national language in the activities of information agencies, appropriate regulation should be taken into account both in the state and in the article of the Professional Law on Information Agencies, so this amendment was rejected because it should eliminate all potential conflicts between the rules of different laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u133	Thank you. And I'd like to make my mark on this amendment, colleagues. [[11:26:51]] For the 15th. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment, in 1857, was likewise made by German and Shufric national deputies. And I'd like to turn on Mr. Shufrich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u134	Thank you. This article is a continuation of the logic and logic of the previous amendment. We find it absolutely unnecessary to link the Transitional Positions to this law and to regulate this law the possibility of using languages in the production of information agencies. They themselves know better which language will be more appropriate to accept the information they want to prove, and we consider interference to be an anti-constitutional and a violation of the rights of our citizens. We insist that the corresponding article be excluded and that this question be settled in another way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u135	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u136	Thank you. Well, the law actually sets out exactly the same limits as Schuffritch's, because the changes to the Information Agency Act, in principle, say that information agencies can spread information in any language, and it's written in the next paragraph, which Schuffritch also proposes to exclude. There is no objection to information agencies spreading information in the language they consider necessary, and this is what the law says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u137	Please identify yourself as amended in 1857. [[11:28:57]] For-12. The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1858. This is also the amendment of Mr. Germany and Schufrich. And I'm asking you to turn on Mr. Shufrich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u138	I emphasize once again our position, we don't mind the substance of the corresponding amendments, we're against the fact that they're proposed today in the Transitional Positions. We believe that this issue should not be subject to the Transitional Regulations, and this issue has already been settled. Why complicate the law’s text with appropriate articles that only burden and complicate the possibility of adopting it? Once again, this law is too complicated both in its essence and in its form. And I'm not jealous of the committee members who will have to balance the rejected amendments tomorrow and find the opportunity to put this law to a vote, as scheduled for Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u139	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u140	Thank you. Well, a colleague, specifically a law designed to protect, including journalists, all citizens, in the use of Ukrainian as a national language and other languages. And this amendment was rejected, because it's specifically aimed at excluding from the law the position by which information agencies get the right to spread information in any language. And we're saying, yes, they should. Indeed, there is no way to make changes to other laws other than compliance with this law. Since we adopt this law, we guarantee the rights and activities of others in all different areas. Yes, on the committee, it will be difficult for us to do so, I agree with my colleague Schufrich. But in caring for peace in our society, for the protection, for the development of Ukrainian language, for the free development of other languages, we must accept it so that once and for all we can stop speculation around the language issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u141	Please be determined by amendment 1858. [[11:31:27]] For -14 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment, 1860. Please, Mr. Pisarenko, this is your amendment. And she wasn't counted by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u142	Thank you. I want to say that I don't agree with my colleague who is now introducing the bill. It has nothing to do with the promotion of Ukrainian and the protection of other languages. It was the exclusive pre-election technology of one of the presidential candidates, and it didn't help either his headquarters or him. That's the first one. The other one. You're talking about language protection, so why didn't you want me to take my amendment, where I talked about protecting languages other than Ukrainian, which you put everywhere and forbidding other languages. My amendments concerned that we also need to pay attention to the laws of Ukraine on the ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities, on national minorities, on the ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities and other legislative acts. And when you talk about protecting other languages, you've shown by your actions that it's only about one language, and you're actually prohibiting other languages. So let's really look at things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u143	Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u144	Well, I also want to tell you that none of the authors of this law have definitely participated in the election of the President or adopted this law before the election or used it in the election campaign. So it's, again, another myth that's meant to actually humiliate Ukrainian language. I'm sorry to say that. If you're counting the European Charter here, the other laws, they're already ratified, they're active, they're powerful, nobody's against those laws. Why mention other laws that are already in operation, especially since these laws do not in any way contain rules on the use of public language in advertising? I don't see any problems here. I want to say, by the way, that the law registered this in January 2017, two years before the election. So again, to refer to elections when we talk about this law, well, at least it's not quite fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u145	Thank you. I ask to be appointed after the amendment of the 1860 People's Deputy Pisarenko. Please, colleagues. It also refers to the order in which languages are used in advertising. [[11:34:00]] For the 15th. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment, 1861, was made by German and Shufrich national deputies. I'm asking you to turn on Mr. Shufrich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u146	We are in favour of excluding the corresponding paragraph, which defines that the language of advertising is the national language. Why? Well, first of all, it's not right to put this in "Transitional Positions." Secondly, once again in such an edition, we find restrictions on the constitutional rights of our citizens, which are guaranteed by 10 articles of the Constitution, namely the right to use Russian and other languages of national minorities, to guarantee their use. Therefore, we insist that the corresponding paragraph be deleted. And as for who and how they use it, I want to mention that yesterday, Dusty said that he would sign the law. By the way, it's still this law, and it's not accepted. I think Peter Alexiovich needs to calm down too.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u147	Thank you. I'd like you to speak on the subject of amendments, dear colleagues. That'll be fair. And now explain to the head of the committee in 1861. Please, Mr. Knieżicki, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u148	Thank you. Since the law also defines the rules for the use of public language in advertising, these rules should be mentioned in the Advertising Act with a view to avoiding contradictions between one subject-matter norms in different laws. If you talk about other countries, I don't think you're going to see a lot of advertising in Ukrainian or on Russian TV. I didn't see that at all. Apparently, in Ukraine advertising should be in Ukrainian. The article merely refers to a bill of profile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u149	Thank you. Guys, I'm asking you to identify yourself for amendment 1861. Please. [[11:36:24]] For -14 The correction is being rejected. Mrs. Boyko, you have the floor. But what is the correction? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I'm on amendment 1862, if you don't mind, this is our colleague Kotwikki's right, which was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, the Rules, in principle, do not allow another author to speak on the amendment of a absent colleague, but let us allow Mrs. Boyko to give her her word. Is there no denying in the hall? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, this right proposes to amend Article 6, namely, the Advertising Act: "The language of advertising is the national language. Registered in Ukraine, organizations and owners of all forms of property produce state - language signs or tablets with information about their registered designation, their type of activity, and their hours of work. The use of languages in advertising by representatives of national minorities is determined by law. It is forbidden to spread advertisements that do not meet the standards of literary language." The last paragraph is particularly important. So I'm asking you, if you don't mind, to put it to a vote, because respect for language or the distortion of language standards of spelling, well, it's definitely not useful for the development of Ukrainian language. Therefore, it is very important to support our colleague. Please put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u153	Thank you. And I'm asking you to identify yourself for this amendment. Please comment to the committee head first. Please. Because the author is missing, and we thank Mrs. Boyko for explaining the point of the amendment, but the committee rejected it. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u154	I'm just going to say that the language of signposts and information boards is regulated, not by the Advertising Act, but by the State Language Act. For this reason alone, this amendment by Cotwich was rejected, because we are not amending the Advertising Act, and this law regulates the language of the banners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u155	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I ask you to determine for amendment 1862. [[11:38:49]] For-19 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment of the 1864 National Deputies of Germany and Shufrich. Mr. Shufrich, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u156	Thank you. We go back to that issue that we discussed during our previous amendment. To be honest, it's not clear why this issue is regulated in Transitional Positions. And secondly, essentially, that's probably why they're insisting again that the language of advertising be a national language. We have the utmost respect for national language. But there are different regions in Ukraine today, areas where the use of another language would be more conducive. And this right, constitutional law, I emphasize, our citizens have, and it is guaranteed by 10 articles of the Constitution. And we think that there would be nothing wrong with advertising in a language that is acceptable to a particular area or region.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u157	Thank you for your clarification. And, please, a word to the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u158	Thank you. Well, it's a rule that's being transposed from actual legislation, which is from legislation adopted in the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic in 1989. Since there has been no conflict since 1989, where Ukrainian language is not a national language in Ukraine, we have not seen the need to abolish it now, for it is the Law on the Protection of Ukrainian Language, not its limitations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u159	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u160	And by the way. Can I have some more?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u161	Give me a minute. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u162	On your question about the languages of other nations: Article 32 provides for the specifics of the use of Crimean Tatar and other indigenous and minority languages in advertising, which are established by the law on the order in which the rights of indigenous peoples and national minorities of Ukraine are realized. We have such a law, and apparently indigenous peoples have the right to put advertising in their own language where they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u163	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, please identify yourself for amendment 1864. [[11:41:34]] For the 10th. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment, 1866, is the same as the national deputy of Germany and Shufrich. Please have a word, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u164	After your observation, Your Honor, the report that your relevant novels have been taken since the laws of the Ukrainian RSR, I immediately had an emotion about "come back to the USSR," probably. I can see you're in such a mood. Especially after the results of the second round. I understand you, I'm kind of sorry. But I am happy for all of Ukraine and for all of us. It's about desire.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u165	Dear Mr. Nestor, I beg of you, let us return from the electoral rhetoric to the novels. Explain your article. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u166	With regard to the position that this law is apolitical, I cannot help but disagree. Because yesterday, in the meantime, President Poshenko declared that he would necessarily sign the law. I want to point out that the adoption of the law is our constitutional right. And I would.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u167	Dear Mr. Nestor, I did not hear, as did the session hall, the explanation of your amendment in 1866. Please speak to the committee head. Maybe you can give us more information about this amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleague, President Poshenko did not promise to pass this law. He said that if he accepted it, he would sign it. I don't see any contradictions here with what we're doing. Since you've touched on the previous amendment, I'm going to read it to you, "The language of advertising in Ukraine is the state language." The printed media, which appears to be one of the official languages of the European Union, allows advertising to be placed in the same language as the printed media. So there are no restrictions in the Romanian-Romanian newspaper, Hungary-Hungary. The language of advertising on television and radio is the national language, the language of advertising distributed by foreign - language television organizations, the radio organizations that speak one or more languages of the European Union, and the official languages of the European Union may be alongside the national language. The use of Crimean Tatar language, other peoples, indigenous peoples, national minorities is established by the Law on the Realization of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and National Minorities in Ukraine. As for the 1865 amendment you were speaking with. Sorry, 1866, it was rejected because the information about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u169	15 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u170	the subjects of farming must be given a national language unless otherwise provided by law. That is why this amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u171	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for amendment to 1866. I want to go to the session room again: let's just focus on the finality of our work on the amendments. [[11:44:50]] For -6 I think it's because not everyone understands the point of correction itself. That would be a lot more. The next amendment, 1867. The national deputy of Anointed One does not insist. Then the amendment of 1869 national deputies Shufrich and Germany And we give the word of Nestor Schufrich. Please, Mr. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u172	We were just talking about interfering with advertising. And now we're in "Transitional positions" and we're already referring to laws that interfere with the issue of economic activity, which was the previous amendment, where they're obliged to use their own. Not a native language, I'm sorry, for most of our Ukrainians, it's also a native language. But there's a reference to that if it's not regulated by law. So if this is regulated by another law, why should we refer to "transitional positions" and overload this law even more? I think that those issues that are regulated by other laws should not be mentioned in the Transitional Positions, that would be logical and from the point of view of the final drafting of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u173	Thank you for your clarification. And I'm asking you to determine. Give a comment to the committee head on this amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u174	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Well, this amendment is essentially about banning advertising in minority languages. Obviously, we disagreed because we believe that national minorities have the right, in accordance with the National Minorities Act, to promote advertising in their own language. As far as advertising is concerned, all the advertising in Ukraine is now spreading in Ukrainian, and it's been happening since the 89th year, as I said. We have a transitional period here, although our committee members have even suggested that we give up the transition period because there are no objections to such norms. For these reasons, the amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u175	Thank you, colleague, for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm asking you to make up for amendment 1869, please. [[11:47:20]] For the five of us. The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1870. Please, the People's Deputy Pisarenko is asking for the floor. I remind you that this amendment has been taken into account by the committee, but our colleague demands that it be submitted for confirmation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u176	Thank you. In fact, what my colleague Shufrich has just said is actually going into all spheres of activity. And now this amendment and this chapter already apply to the language of references and decisions and the answers to them. Indeed, all that applies to the State can and must be governed by this law in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. But everything else -- we have urged you and we urge you to go to the private life and life of private companies that you don't settle, that is what regulates the economy and regulates life. There is no need to determine in the kitchens which language people communicate with each other. So we're going to propose that we re-read the bill as a short, in fact, political slogan that we've been trying to play in the elections. The law must be professional, and it must be done without elections and without politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u177	Thank you for explaining your correction. And please comment to the chairman of the committee on this amendment. I'm reminding you, it's 1873. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u178	1870.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u179	Oh, sorry, yeah, 1870. No, no, it's 1873.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u180	No, it's 1870.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u181	Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, right, sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u182	Thank you. Well, colleagues, we're adopting this law, not to limit the use of languages, but to protect Ukrainian and not to limit the use of other languages, so that we can always forget about any controversy on a language issue in Ukraine, for which there are no grounds, and which people are always trying to use to distract the situation in our society. As I said before, the law was being prepared in 2017. No one then had or thought about any choices or guesses. So looking for reasons why we don't have to harmonise Ukrainian life in Ukrainian society, protect Ukrainian language and the rights of other languages, I don't think it makes any sense. This article, it was merely an editorial and was accepted by the committee in an approved edition. The article does not talk about how the economy should regulate something, not about private companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u183	Finish up, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u184	and that the citizens' appeal and the response to the citizens' appeal must be made in Ukrainian. Because if you go to any public authority or to any written body, and then you get a language you don't understand, you won't be able to realize your natural rights. No one is in violation of this norm; it only makes Ukraine a single country for Ukrainians, for all Ukrainian citizens who live in our country, and protects them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u185	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm putting this amendment to a full vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:51.]] For-19 The amendment remains with the committee. Next up, 1871. This is the amendment of the German and Shufrich national deputies. And please, Mr. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u186	Thank you. We are firmly opposed to this law being regulated by other laws. The possibility of regulating other laws would be appropriate because of the initiative to make changes to laws that are already in force. This is a constitutional right that every colleague of ours has with the President of Ukraine. Why burden the already complicated law by its content and form, and make changes to the "transitional positions" of this law, in the article of other laws? We propose to exclude the relevant articles concerning the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on Citizens' Appeal and, if desired, to consider them separately as specific changes to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u187	Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u188	Thank you. This is the 1871 amendment. It is rejected because this law introduces precise procedures for examining citizens’ appeals, where they are differentiated on different criteria. For example, when individuals speak, there is no regulation. It is another matter at all, when it comes to the appeal of state authorities or government bodies. And so in order for all of these rules to be harmonized, this rule had to be abandoned and, accordingly, this amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u189	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for amendment in 1871. [[11:53:08]] For-7. Thank you. This amendment is rejected because seven deputies were the only ones who supported it. The next amendment of the 1872 National Deputies of Germany and Shufrich. Please, the word of Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u190	Thank you. This amendment is a logical extension of the previous amendment. And with the opportunity to discuss this law, I would like to remind you that Dunja Miyatovic, Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, has met with President-elect Volodymyr Zelenski, yet a candidate for the Presidents who won the election of the President of Ukraine. I hope that they have discussed this issue, including language issues and languages in Ukraine. So I'm indignant, I'm very indignant, I'm extremely indignant about yesterday's stand by Peter Prashenko, who wants to sign something last time. He had already signed up, and the people of Ukraine expressed their attitude. So let's give the new president a chance to work and make up his mind, not sign something last, but that's the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u191	My colleagues, I am, Mr Nestor, once again, with all due respect to you, to Duni Miyatovich, to the newly elected President and President-in-Office, I would like to emphasize that we should honor the Rules. And now you've informed us of everything except the 1871 amendment. We didn't understand the point of this amendment at all. 72, that's all, that's all. And please, I give the floor to the head of the committee, which I hope will explain the point of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u192	Yes, this amendment requires only the name of the article to be deleted. I would like to point out that the basic law does not rule out the possibility of any language. You can go to the public authorities everywhere in any language. But the law says that if you speak the national language, you have the right to receive an answer in the national language. How does article 38 sound? "Every person has the right to address the public language either orally or in writing to civil associations, political parties, other legal persons with appeals registered in Ukraine. Civil associations, political parties, other legal persons registered in Ukraine, for a petition given in the national language, provide an answer in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Citizens’ Appeal. The public associations, political parties, other legal persons registered in Ukraine may also consider addressing the call in other languages. ” I mean, it's a totally democratic article. By the way, here comes a colleague of Yelensky who met yesterday in Strasbourg, Nestor Ivanovich, Nestor Ivanovich, you were talking about the leader of the Zelenski presidential race, and I'm telling you about ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u193	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u194	So it was not Zelenski who met with Dunya Miyatovich, but Jelenski met with Dunya Miyatovich. Helenski really, I believe, has every chance of becoming the future president of Ukraine, especially the successful meeting with Dunya Miyatovic, which is what we wish for our colleague, Jelenski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, you know, this exchange of information about the meetings of Duni Miyatovic confirms once again that we need to follow the Rules and go essentially on novels and amendments rather than comment on the schedule of the honourable Mrs. Miyatovic. I'm asking to be determined by amendment 1872. Please. [[11:57:00]] For-7. The amendment is rejected, but our mandatory rule to consider these amendments has been observed, which there is no day when Mrs. Duña Miyatovich is not mentioned. And it's a good thing that at least something stable is in our session room. Please, next amendment to 1873. This is the amendment of the People’s Deputy Pisarenko, who was rejected, but we give the floor to a respected colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u196	What I'm saying is that the whole point of my amendment, most of my amendments, was to promote Ukrainian first. The second is to protect another language, including Russian, as provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine and the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court, which has interpreted it. And the third is that we take into account our international commitments and how they apply to other languages around the world. So everywhere I've been, I've been proposing that we make reference standards to international standards that today protect the rights of national minorities. Regrettably, the authors of the bill went the other way, stating that Ukraine’s only and everywhere had banned Russian and other languages, because they said that we would deal with the issue later, and no one wanted to do the international standards, the rules of exile. So I propose that we respect our citizens -- re-second reading, forget about this pre-election technology, and we will be dealing with this in the new parliament, which will treat it professionally, not as politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u197	Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u198	Dear colleague Pisarenko, we have forgotten about the election race, and we will not forget the Ukrainian language unless we forget the Ukrainian language itself, because it is the native language of most Ukrainians who love it, whom we love, whose rights we are chosen to defend in this room, certainly without restricting the native languages of other national minorities. Ukrainian is national in accordance with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court did not require us to protect Russian, Polish, Hungarian or any other, we have other countries protecting them. And the languages of Ukrainians who speak these languages as their own will be protected in Ukraine. This amendment is rejected because the legislative rules listed therein are in effect and do not regulate in any way the language of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u199	Thank you. And I'd like to make my mark on amendment 1873. [[11:59:46]] For -8 The correction is being rejected. Dear colleagues, we're with you now. A 30-minute break in our work will be announced in accordance with the Rules. And after the break, we'll go back to the amendments that we're working on. I. Clarification? Please, Nestor Schufrich has a note on how to drive. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u200	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I was really wrong, the information was given to me incorrectly, our colleague Yelensky was still meeting with Dunya Miyatovich. I hope the new president has more than one opportunity. But it changes my position that it would still be right for him to sign this law if he were to adopt it, not the President who is going in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u201	Thank you. The Ukrainian will be "The President Who Is Coming." Dear Nestor Ivanovich, the Ukrainian will be "The President to come," not "enter." That's the first one. And secondly, you know very well that in Ukraine, glory to God, there is the principle of continuity of power. So everything that the President can sign will be signed. Colleagues, I'm going to allow myself to make an announcement that came to the fore. Today there is a special exhibition in Parliament entitled "The Individuals. We're different, but we're equal." This is a photo project dedicated to special children, their boundless love and inviolability. At the invitation of our colleague, Oksana Jurinec, children and their families came to the Supreme Council from Lviv. Please support them with your presence. And we invite you to the third floor towers to open this exhibition at 12 o'clock. I ask the representatives of the various factions to support Mrs. Jurinec's excellent initiative and, of course, our special children, who, despite the various political, ideological views here at one time, are actually supporting humanitarianism and that is the right thing to do. I'm calling a break for 30 minutes, colleagues. And after the break, we'll go back to looking at the amendments. And let's start with the amendment in 1874, this is the amendment of the people's deputies Shufrich and Germany. Therefore, I ask that colleagues first return to the session room to present the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u202	Fellow national deputies, we continue our work. Amendment 1874. National deputy of Germany. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u203	Regarding the citizens we are offered. This is a binding norm that provides for the imposition of an obligation on any citizen who wishes to appeal to the authorities of the State or to self - government, including a claim and a complaint. And the failure to comply with the provisions of this law will allow them to refuse their consideration. Today, I would like to say that through the introduction of a deity, by the introduction of judicial congregations, people are deprived of the right to go to court. Take statistics where ordinary citizens are unable to protect this right. What's more, the law institutes are being introduced to participate in all institutions, the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u204	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u205	is separated from participation in such management of state affairs. Because a statement is one of the controls. involved in the administration of public affairs or the affairs of local self - government bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u206	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the committee, we're looking at amendment number 1874, is there any position of the committee on this?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u207	Yes, this amendment has been rejected, since the law introduces procedures for the conversion of citizens, it contains differentiations on different criteria. And obviously we cannot support this amendment because the law introduces different criteria for responding to public authorities and private individuals. By deleting this article, we will greatly weaken this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u208	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:34:10]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1875. People's deputies don't insist. Next amendment number 1876. Don't insist. Amendment 1877. National deputy of Germany. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u209	I'd like us to consider this in a discussion, based on the fact that there isn't an editorial here that should be an honourable reporter. Just don't send me to the standard you always refer to in the material part of the bill. It's about making changes to other laws, it's about the status laws that are unacceptable. So tell me, where are the texts of this article, what am I supposed to be talking about here, the new edition? That's the first one. And the second. I'd like us not to put ourselves in a mockery where we have to pass exams to learn Ukrainian through the National Commission of the Standards of the State Language of Judges of the Constitutional Court. Look at the qualifications set out for them. What you're making me do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u210	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u211	Thank you. Dear colleague of Germany, this is about the amendment of 1877, it's actually taken into account. That's why there's no article here, because you've also suggested that Comrade Pisarenko delete section III, section 2, section 2, section 2, section 8, of the Transitional Regulations. We've ruled it out. Because we turned it off. Why were they expelled? Because a special procedure is in place to appoint a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, within which special rules examine all signs of a person’s conformity with the criteria set out in the Constitution. Since you have proposed to delete the article and your amendment is included, this article is not available. Thank you. No, this article is not here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u212	Do you insist on voting? Okay. Let's move on. Amendment 1878. People's deputy, Elena Boyko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, the law of 1878 suggests replacing the words "National Commission of Public Language Standards" with the words "central authority of executive authority in the field of education and science." I realize that this amendment is rejected because 1876 and 1877 were accepted, and then the standard was ruled out in general. I don't insist on voting. But once again, I want to confirm my position on what we have in the Education Act part one of article 64 of the mandate of the central executive authority in the field of standardisation. This is the central body of executive authority in the field of education and science. So it's just a discussion. I don't insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u214	Thank you. I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u215	Yes, Comrade Boyko, you're absolutely right. This amendment was rejected only because paragraph 2.20 had been deleted, in accordance with amendments 1876-1878. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u216	Thank you. Next amendment number 1879. People's deputies don't insist. Amendment 1880, National Deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, again on that point, I want to say that we are interfering with other laws. That's the first one. And the second. Here we hear the dualism of the thoughts of the drafters of the bill. In one case, they say that the degree of maturity is sufficient, and that is not enough of a document on higher education if he is a professor of Ukrainian language, if he gave an introductory exam from the Ukrainian language in writing and orally. What are we talking about? What's the next test? Here it should be on the contrary that government officials who work in the public service should know, if others live there compactly, that they should not only know the official state language, but also the languages that live in its community. That's what the world's standardization of protection is all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u218	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u219	on the protection of languages, both official and national minorities and ethnic, as in Poland, four groups, including funnels and Roma. This is what the world is talking about. And we go without turning back, we give levers of influence to people and their attraction to responsibility and abuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u220	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u221	Thank you, colleague! Your amendment of 1880, it was the same as the amendment of 1889 Collegiate Pisarenko. Why was it rejected? Because the requirements for members of the National Television and Radio Council are defined by the law. That's what this law is about, it's just a reference to a profile law. When you talk about exams. We were just saying that for a large part of citizens, we don't have to take any exams, that's enough. Not all have higher education, but most have secondary education, and they have studied Ukrainian at school, so obviously they don't have to take any exams. And that's exactly why we want to restrict, very limited to those people who need these exams, they're just senior officials of the state. Obviously, the higher officials of the State, if not in conflict with the Constitution, should speak the national language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u222	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Because I don't see it in the tablet. Yes. Please vote. [[12:40:45.]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1881. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u223	Dear reporter, Mr. Mikolo! I don't know, you're still bluffing, but I'll give you an answer. You said "superintendents." So read what was suggested here in article 7: "The appointment of members of the National Council only for the availability of the exam." What are you bringing us here? That senior officials. There's a list of senior officials. Read the Law on Central Authorities, the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, the Regulations on the Ministry, and so forth. But the question is different. See why do you view people of the second class or of the other class or of the other kind? What's behind this? You open this bag or bag, the ideology of this law! Let the authors, and you as co-author, tell us, why do you see that on the National Commission on this, on the National Council, you have to do the exams? This is the National Council! Why don't you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u224	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u225	In the supervisory boards. On the boards of oversight where Ukrneftegaz, why don't you set up a board of supervisors that deals with government spending? Then we need to determine where and where and where and who is taking what is wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u226	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u227	Thank you. Well, first of all, I want to mean that the National Council on Television and Radio is a notable constitutional body, and it is not the central body of executive power. In fact, we discussed this issue when we discussed article 7 of this law. I'm a little bit surprised by your position, why in the boards of directors, they need to be tested, and in the National Council, they don't. It is the National Council that sees to it that legislation is carried out, these are the officials of the first category. I myself was once a member of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio talk, so it's obvious that from the point of view of the committee, these top-level officials have to speak a national language that needs to be confirmed by appropriate examinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u228	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:43:36]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1882. People's deputy, Elena Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, the law of 1882 also suggests changing the words "National Commission of Public Language Standards" to "central executive authority in the field of education and science." Again, I would like to emphasize that, in accordance with the Education Act, part one of the first article 64 says that the central authority of the executive branch in the field of education and science -- and this is our Ministry of Education and Science -- is the manufacturer of standards and provides an educational process. Logically, when both standardization and teaching process, its organization is in one hand, in one single central authority. So, of course, I'm not going to insist on voting because it's part of the committee's agenda, but I'm going to ask that question again in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u230	Head of the committee, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u231	Thank you. Well, we talked about it a little earlier, that. And they didn't agree to replace it with the Ministry of Education because the Ministry doesn't directly issue the certificate, they approve the learning standards, not the language standards. The language standards should be approved by the appropriate commission. But this amendment was taken into account in the committee's drafting by redrafting paragraph 2.21 of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u232	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Germano.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u233	I would like, first of all, to focus on the fact that we don't have an editorial right now, maybe I don't understand something, but we don't see the editorials in this direction with regard to article 7 of the new edition, Mr. Reporter, and don't refer to that norm of the law, that's the first. And secondly, I would like to point out that it's once again a question of dual dualism in a way that violates the principle of standardization at all. And I'd like you to agree on some of these procedures. In view of the fact that what is referred to here in connection with article 7, we believe that it should be put to the test because it is up to us to accept this standard in general. There's no editorial, a reverend reporter, maybe I didn't get it -- tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u234	I'd like the committee head to comment again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u235	Yeah, it's opposite the 1879 in line 641. Dude, I'll read it to you. Paragraph 1 of the first part of article 7 of the Ukrainian Act "On the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting" (News of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2005, No. 16, article 265; since 2006, No. 18, article 155). After the words "speaks the national language," add the words "according to the level defined by the National Commission of Public Language Standards."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u236	Please bet on confirmation. Please take full account of this. [[12:47:12]] For-25 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 1883. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u237	I just want to stop at the first thing that you said about the supervisory board. So what I'm saying is, let's just say that you realize that the boards of directors are 50 percent or more foreign. You take Koboljevo, you take Okrgaz, so there are seven people in charge of the board, four of whom are foreigners. That's what they're talking about. That's what they need to see. Look at the railway, who. Look at those who have already left our territory, directing us, so to speak, in cages, and teaching us how to work on railways. That's exactly what we're talking about. And that's what we're asking you to rule out, because you're interfering again with the order of public authorities. So what's the big deal? Didn't we go up above the licorice? Are you mocking the nation? Look what you're writing! The paper will put up with everything, but it's a disgrace, what you write is "the order of disclosure of the activities of the public authorities."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u238	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u239	30 seconds. Look, please, about the authorities of the state, about the authorities of self-government -- and you'll find everything there -- as they write, when they write, how many days, and everything else, what orders, what positions, what instructions. That's what this is about. And you write here, in this law, to show the meaning of this law. That's not meaning, that's the basis of legal nihilism, and I'd like to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u240	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u241	Thank you. Well, first of all, this was rejected, because the Law on State Language introduces new rules for the dissemination of information, and for the elimination of contradictions, the Law on the Order of Disclosure of the Activities of Authorities should reveal how languages are applied in the application of this law. As a result, the amendment was rejected. As for the supervisory board, the colleague you were talking about. I, by the way, favor members of the supervisory boards of state enterprises to speak Ukrainian. I understand that we have foreigners there now, and we can set up a variety of postponing points. According to a valid text, by the way, in this law the supervisory boards have to confirm language. And when we looked at these standards, we promised we'd go back to this, but this one. And we will discuss this during the committee meeting, but the board of supervisors will have to confirm the knowledge of the language or of the certificate. In this case, this amendment on how to explain the activities of government authorities and local authorities in Ukraine by means of the media only cites the name of the law that has been valid since 1997. We're just quoting the name of the law that's valid. That's why we're against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u242	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:50:30.]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1884. National deputy of Germany. Excuse me, Pisarenko. I won't. Don't insist. Next. [[B in m in s a l in]] Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u243	Sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u244	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u245	What, what? But it's rejected! That's why it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u246	And you have no right to comment on the amendments that are rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u247	I'm not commenting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u248	Please. Amendment 1885. National deputy of Germany. Now you can speak on your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u249	That's what I'm talking about! For 85th. Declined. So give me a deadline, reinstate the term, you've taken away the term, Madam Chairman, I'd like to ask, I'm entitled. And with regard to this amendment, I want to say, if the term has gone, please report back, I was just pointing out that the very name of the law, the very indication that this law is applied by the apiori, is the anti-procedure of the law. What are we talking about? How can you interfere with another legal field that doesn't put any pressure on it to keep going? It's not a matter of law, it's a matter of instructions and circulars, it's a matter of orders that are being given to individual executives to date. But it's about information about organ activity. What are we talking about? We ask what it should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u250	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u251	Thank you. ..must be excluded. Let's talk to you, gather around, you're a group of these authors of the law, there are normal people, most of them understand the law. Look, well, what, why do we get into the law? In my estimation, we want to go in and do, bring to the turbulence 19 laws – 19! Dear colleagues, who.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u252	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u253	Thank you. This rule reads: "The information on the activities of public authorities and local self-government authorities is disseminated in the national language." And this is a perfectly right norm simply for Ukrainian citizens to understand the language of government and local self - government. I don't see any contradictions in this case. As a result, the offer of a German colleague was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u254	Thank you and vote, please. [[12:53:28]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1887. People's Deputy Sold. Don't you insist? Next amendment number 1888. National deputy of Germany. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u255	Dear colleagues, we have now reached the Commissioner for Human Rights. Can you imagine, show me, please give an interviewer, where, where, in the world, such a practice? A human rights officer of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being tested for knowledge, knowledge, and language. What does that mean? Is this a separate branch or can it be authorized or not? What are we talking about, please? This is the person who, on our behalf, from the legislative body that runs your way, on your path if you go, exclusively in Ukrainian. How, then, can an authorized person not know this Ukrainian language? What's with the exams? It's fiction. As they say in Cherchishka: "It's a cat's imagination." There's nothing left. There is no meaningful loading as they were told.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u256	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u257	The law (thanks) that came here is the threat that it needs, the threat of using Ukrainian as a national one that needs protection. Please tell me, for the purpose of functioning as a person authorized to protect the rights and freedoms of citizens, does it make it impossible to perform its function? Isn't it funny to talk about it? I'd love to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u258	Thank you. I'd like you to comment, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u259	Thank you. Well, first of all, he's authorized by human rights, he's not protecting national language, he's protecting human rights. Language is not a human right. The authorized one may likely speak languages other than Ukrainian, simply having to know and confirm it with a certificate. This was rejected, since the Human Rights Commissioner Act is a special law that defines the procedure for appointing an ombudsman. In order to eliminate the contradictions between this law and the Language Act, amendments to the Law of the Authorized Supreme Council should be made. So this amendment simply aims to reconcile a number of laws with each other. Thank you. Committee editing rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u260	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:56:22]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1889. National deputy Boyko Helena.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u261	Dear colleagues, this is an unison amendment preceding my discussion on the mandate of the National Commission of Public Language Standards. I confirm, Mikola Leonidovich, that really according to the Education Act, education standards are defined by article 64, and language standards really define the current National Institute of Ukrainian Language. I just have a question: if we give authorization to a new body, won't it be a tautology with the existing powers of the Ministry of Education and the Institute of Ukrainian Language? That's the question. We don't take their authority. But I don't take this amendment for granted because it's editorially accounted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u262	National deputy of Germany, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u263	I'm grateful to a colleague who's just been informed, and our perspectives here are consistent with that of tutology. You have to admit, this is 19 laws for tautology. But there's another question. By recognizing such a standard, we do not enrich the law by devoting it to this law. That's the first one. And the second. We are saddened by its application. Let's keep going about grammar and everything. If we have a National Language Institute, you can conclude, after the trial, that's the order of application, and that's it. We had to come to the Education Act hearing at the Constitutional Court, where they clearly referred to article 7, which we're going to go on, which is essentially discrimination against people on a language basis. That's why we're asking you to shut it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u264	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u265	Thank you. Well, first of all, a valid draft law provides that the Ukrainian Language Institute prepares proposals and conclusions on the basis of which the commission determines that the Commission of Public Language Standards works to define the standards of the state language. We don't have the Institute of National Languages, we have the Institute of Ukrainian Language and we have the Institute of Language. The law mentions the Institute of Ukrainian Language, which actually prepares proposals and conclusions for the commission. The amendment itself is included in the Committee's drafting by rephrasing the original text of paragraph 2.23 of the Transitional Regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u266	Thank you. I'm betting on the confirmation to be taken fully into account. [[12:59:25]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1890, National Deputy Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u267	Dear colleagues, we've already reached the cinema. I think if I read Bondarchuk, I don't even know about his health. Look, we put the Film Act here. Where else does the Law on the Functioning of Ukrainian Languages not appear as a language police officer? What are you preparing for the people? Do you understand the consequences or not? I would like them to read the expert conclusions that our committee and the expert board have drawn. Read about this: With regard to the application of this law and the distribution of 19 other basic, statutory laws, including the National MP, the President, the Authorized Commissioner for Human Rights. There's no such thing! What are we doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u268	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u269	I'd love to, you see, there are no people in the room. Even those seven who support it are nearly 30 percent of those who support it. I'm glad they're backing me up. Look what we're doing. And we're going to be, when we adopt this law, what does the President still think of as an active speaker of Parliament, in an illegal way to look at it, we're going to ask you where these texts are, where are these discussions?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u270	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u271	Thank you. Well, I want to say to you that Ukrainian director Roman Bondarchuk, who won the Chevchenk Prize this year, including for the beautiful film "Vulcan," which I urge you to see, filmed in Ukrainian, familiar with this law, studied this law and strongly supported this law. Thank you for mentioning the brilliant Ukrainian director Roman Bondarchuk. In law enforcement, there were indeed editorial remarks regarding changes to the Act on Cinematography. It was true that these points were different from those mentioned by a colleague of Germany. When we have a committee meeting tomorrow, we will definitely consider them. The law itself was rejected, for by introducing the Law on Change in the Language of Cinematography, the Supreme Council should harmonize these changes with the same standards of the law of profile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u272	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:02:24]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1891. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u273	We've already gone into spelling in this law. You've called these institutions that are now called the rules of behavior in writing, the rules of the opposites, and everything else. Please tell me on what basis you're still making this law, how we do differences, change the word "proliferation" to a different one. You don't think it's a mockery of the law latent. Someone does it on purpose to make someone laugh, who little or little understands the law. And the second. I would like to tell you that we don't do spelling, and the Act on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language does not have to do that. Do you understand what you're talking about? I'd like to be told that it's essentially a setup.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u274	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u275	I want to say that it is essentially a question of the recording of the imposition, of the question of expressions, of language issues through the law, of interference with the natural relationships of humans, of the natural origins of the mother tongue. And this is where we put it. Let's see how Germany looks at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u276	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u277	This rule does not apply in any way to spelling. It says that in the text of the law, the word "distribution" is replaced by the word "proliferation" in all differences. It's just another legal term. And since the terms "distribution" and "proliferation" are used in article 23 of the Law on Language, so this amendment on exclusion, bringing this rule into line with other articles of the law, it's just technical. A German colleague suggested that it be rejected. The committee did not support this deviation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u278	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:05:08]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1892. He insists. National deputy of Germany, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u279	I'm talking about confirming this standard. At the same time, I would like to ask again, Sir. I read, it's written (this is the question of part one of the first article 6): put it in a colon. All of it. Where? What? Where to? Where's the paper? The one that goes next. It says: The use of languages in the field is 649 amendments. Where's the amendment, please? Don't invent it on the move, on the blast. Tell her you missed her, you turned her off. And when you write it, I don't know. And life knows what is written, written, whether at night, or at daytime, or at lunchtime, and makes changes to laws and gives them the status of law that is being considered in the Constitutional Court today. And you know it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u280	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u281	The amendment made by the Kotwitski MP says that paragraph 2.24 should be edited as follows: "In the Act on Cinematography" (Reports of the Supreme Council, 98, No. 22, p. 114: In the text of the law, the word "distribution" should be replaced by the word "proliferation" in all cases. This amendment is similar to the previous one, which was included in the committee’s edition only as part of the terms included in article 23 of the body of the law. You have, if you leave your table below, you'll see that it's counted because we can't write a different line than the right column that you have. I read it to you, we changed the word "distribution" to the word "proliferation." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u282	Thank you. Please. I'm betting on confirmation and I'm asking for full support. [[13:07:24]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1896. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u283	93, not 6. That's the first one. And please turn the timer on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u284	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Indeed, Amendment 1893. There's just the same turn of events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u285	Thank you for your apology. Germany, Platform for Life. As far as article 6 is concerned. This tautology again, which can't even be applied in legislative processes, and on the other hand, the question of whether it can be written in the Act on the Functioning of Language as a State? Where's the language here, the sense of the burden that this is going to lead the language as a national language? Tell me, please, what I'd like to hear from the reporter is where your big idea of how the Ukrainian language works as a national language was crystallized, and where it's set up here. Say, in the context of this sentence, which is here, as you are the philosophers, who intervened, and lawyers. I'd like to hear it directly from you. Therefore, we ask you to exclude this but to hear your explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u286	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u287	Thank you. A colleague of Germanko's suggests that the term "Article 6 should be deleted as follows:" He suggests that only this sentence be deleted. We're talking about changes to the Act on Cinematography, which obviously have to be made in connection with the adoption of this law. In order to make it clear to you, my colleague, and other national deputies, I will read fully the article 23 on which the reference is made. And I'm going to ask you to give me some time later. "The language of the distribution and demonstration of films in Ukraine is the national language. Films, including series, animations, and documentary films produced by Ukraine’s film subjects, are distributed and demonstrated in Ukraine with a language part of a national - language audio series. National films can be shown in Crimean Tatar languages, in other indigenous languages in accordance with the Ukrainian Film Act. When used in the language part of the audio series by the national language of a replica in other languages, such replicas must be sounded or subtitled in the national language. Total length of subtitled replicas executed."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u288	Let me finish. Please don't turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u289	".. In the film, it can't exceed 10 percent of the total length of all the replicas in this movie. Movies not defined in part two of this paragraph are distributed and shown in Ukraine in duplicate or public language. In addition to the national language, foreign films may contain audio tracks made in other languages. The distribution of documentary films without duplicating or sounding in the national language, but with subtitles made in the national language, is allowed if such a film has acquired at least 2 points according to the cultural test criteria established by the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine and the granting of a permit for such distribution, as indicated in the State Certificate of Distribution and Demonstration of Films issued and established by law. Within the framework of film festivals conducted in Ukraine, it is possible to show films in the original language but with subtitles made in the national language. Outside the festival’s borders, such films are shown in the national language. Cinematographic institutions can display foreign films in the original language, accompanied by subtitling in the national language. The total number of sanctions in showing films in the original language other than the national can't exceed 10 percent of the total number of sanctions in showing movies in a movie theater per month. The information about showing foreign films in the original language is being brought to the attention of the audience. Video-to-order service providers using the Internet for the availability of public-language audio-roads for films that are available from Ukraine to ensure that such an audio-track is loaded into the relevant silent films. The state is helping subjects who provide video-to-procurement services, whose services are available in Ukraine, to create audio-roads in the national language and (or) to obtain rights to such audio-tracks. Film posters and entrance tickets for movie theaters, other movie theaters are made in the national language." So the law very clearly and deeply regulates the use of Ukrainian in cinematography, where it allows films to be shown in a different language, but with Ukrainian subtitles, it does not limit any rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u290	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:12:40]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1894. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u291	Dear colleagues, I would like to say the name of the great lawyer, historian, member of the Academy of Law correspondent Alexander Mironka. That's what he called "legalism." What you read here. Look, you put a dot. After a colon, you need to understand that something should be, like a direct language, or the content of an article. Who do you think you are and who do you think you are? Mr. Reporter, I'd like you to keep yourself in the right mind here tolerantly that if you haven't written it down, then tell me you didn't write it down, not from someone. You're not going to be able to do anything with someone. Now the second thing I want to say. We're talking about the speech, we're asking and we're shutting it down, it's all accounted for. Look, including your regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u292	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u293	You are regulating this issue with reference to this law. Well, so much, so much for having a head of harmonica to figure out what this law regulates or the issue of language is regulated by law, and all, the Act on the Functioning of the Language is a direct action, the unconstitutional law that you propose, the position of which is unconstitutional, to impose in the field of cinematography.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u294	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u295	Dear colleague, this law regulates the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language. The sale, the distribution of the calf's tongue, which is pigs in stores, the law doesn't regulate in any way, so I don't see any contradictions or contradictions here. You're proposing to rule out just these two dots that you're talking about, and then they're followed by an article after these two dots, the title of the article: "The application of languages in the field of cinema is carried out in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language.'point. I'm suggesting these two dots don't rule out, and the committee supported the idea that these two dots that you're proposing to rule out, you don't have to rule out, so your amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u296	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:15:30.]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1895. Don't insist. Amendment 1895. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u297	I want you back to this problem. And to the chairman, to the reporter: I would like him to apologize. What language did he call "pig" and "dog," if this is about languages of national minorities, it's a disgrace. Do you know what you just did? We've heard of ravens and stuff, so why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u298	That's it. Turn off the microphone, turn off the microphone. Your statement does not refer to the substance of the amendment. I'm sorry, Mr. Germanko. Next amendment number 1896. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u299	I'm sorry, I have a minute, and it's on. What are you doing, Madam Chairman?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u300	I have a right under the Rules, if it does not apply to your statement of amendment, I can rule it out. Please make the most of the correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u301	I'm just saying that in cinematography you can't even do any tendon, even the thoughts that have been spoken, about something other than Ukrainian, pig language and dog language, in cinematography. Do you understand what the report on the case is about? And you say it's not. You sit here and listen to how it's perceived. Who gave such a right? It's equal to equal people in law and physiology, and it's a disgrace to compare that language to a dog or a pig. I think I should put the reporter's material down and sit down, let another sit down. You can't mess with me. We're walking on the edge of the phallus. That's why I'd like to stop letting that happen and put it on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u302	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u303	Dear colleague, you misunderstand me. We accept -- we communicate in Ukrainian -- we adopt the Law on the Use of Ukrainian as a State Language, and you say we want to regulate the Language. The language (U.S.) is sold in stores: pork, veal. We don't control which languages are sold, which ones are sold there. We're just regulating the language, you know? Obviously, we respect, we love all languages: English, Russian, Hungarian, Romanian -- we love, we honor both languages and people. But we just can't regulate the sales of the tongue in this law, because this law about the other, you know. I mean, there's nothing to apologize for, I'm not insulting you. I have great respect for people who speak all the languages.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u304	Please vote, Amendment 1896. [[13:18:48]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1899. National deputy of Germany. Kotwikki is 898. 898. Kotwikki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u305	Igor! Kotwiczki, are you insisting on a full scale? Your turn in 1898. Say it!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u306	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u307	Okay. Please vote in full. [[13:19:34]] For-26 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1899. National deputy of Germany. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u308	Mr. Mikolo, I'd like to tell you that. The original tongue. The wit is not yet the mind. To get used to Russian material, actually. So I would also like to be heard in Russian, which people understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u309	Please turn off the microphone. Dear fellow national MPs! Please don't make these provocations. The speaker in the Parliamentary Hall is the Ukrainian language. Please comply with the Rules. Please turn on the microphone to the German National MP, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u310	I was just talking about the subject where, really, I might call it the "language question." And what he was talking about was understood by the reporter. And I'm really sorry, and I'm really sorry that he called her a dog. So you call Russian dog? Or languages of national minorities?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u311	Head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u312	Dear colleague, I would never allow myself to call any language a dog, and I ask you not to allow it. There's no such thing in the transcript, you call it, and you make it up. Please don't humiliate me with Russian! Thank you very much. And we move on, we move on to 1899. This was your remedy, which was rejected, and it was rejected, since the Language Law established unacceptable public humiliation or contempt of the State language. Just like, by the way, any other language can't be humiliated and despised. And the presence of such materials in the film should be a reason to refuse to issue a rental certificate. That's why your editing was not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u313	Thank you. Please vote on Amendment 1899. [[13:22:12]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1900. National deputy of Germany. Please make a statement on the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u314	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it is not possible to distribute in all spheres of social relations these regulations on the functioning of Ukrainian as a national language. I would like you to know that in international terms where the term "public language" is used, it is spoken as an official language. Please tell me, where is the threat to the use of Ukrainian as official as a national language? When was the Opposition Block against it? But it stands for the state language, but it says, under international legal conditions, The Hague Recommendations, the minority charter and other legislators. THE couple who sent us the letters. You ignored them, so it's not clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u315	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u316	Dear colleague, this is your remedy dismissed, since article 14 of the Act on Cinematography establishes the order of distribution of films, given that this order is supplemented by the rules of the Law on State Language, article 14 should refer to this law. We really took into account when we talked about the Education Act, the recommendations of the Venice Commission. As far as the Hague recommendations are concerned, we didn't take them into account, because probably my qualifications aren't enough, I don't know what the Hague recommendations are. But when we have a meeting, a committee, if you come and give us the Hague recommendations, I will definitely put them to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u317	Please vote. [[13:24:27]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1902 of the German People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u318	Where's the first one? You turned it around and didn't even see 900.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u319	900th you just reported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u320	I'm saying 900 and 901?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u321	That's right. And 901 is counted, so 902.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u322	What about the 901s?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u323	Please, 901.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u324	Oh! I'm asking for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u325	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u326	Thank you. The terminological amendment of colleague Sotnik, which states that paragraph 2.24, paragraph 8, of the Transitional Regulations, reads as follows: "Extension and demonstration shall be carried out in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language." It's taken into account by the committee's editors, well, it's included in the committee's editorials, which the committee approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u327	Please. I'm betting on confirmation. Please take full account of this. [[13:25:42]] For-21 The decision is not taken. The next amendment, 1902. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u328	Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize that unfortunately we are once again becoming feet or feet on the same rakes, when we are already interfering with the demonstration and distribution of our films, it is already settled and this is all set for today. Why is there a need for a separate law? Tomorrow they'll come up with a sublegal act. And to date, we have a mass of such acts that are issued in excess of the powers of the President of Ukraine or of the executive branch. And so I would like that when we write a rule of law, we have to assume that this is the foundation on which the setting is. In the cinema, it's all settled, what else is there to set up? What an initiative group has come up with to break this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u329	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u330	and root out the Russian language and language of national minorities, well, you don't have to go too far to do that -- pass the law on the prohibition of use, spit on the Constitution, article 10, spit on the Constitution, article 11 and all. You're doing it by this law. But you're going to come up with latent shapes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u331	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u332	Thank you. Well, if that happens, God forbid that your political power will come to power, you can usually ban Russian language if you need it. We are a democratic parliament here, not a single language, not a Russian, not a national minority. You propose to exclude the rule that distribution and demonstration are carried out in accordance with the Ukrainian Act "On Ensuring the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language". The committee was against this rule, so your amendment was not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u333	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:28:20]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. The next amendment, 1903. Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u334	I want to continue with the phrase of a colleague who represents the law. It's not the most democratic parliament, unfortunately, that was the most disgraceful call on democracy. And that's what you'll see by decision of the Constitutional Court. Because it has now come to a decision on matters that have been approved by Parliament. Unfortunately, this law also shows that it has nothing to do with democracy. And when you say no other language is forbidden here, of course, they are not even mentioned. Because it's only about Ukrainian language, where quotas in certain things are 90 to 100 percent in both private and public life. And all the other languages don't even have a memory. This will mean that all other languages are banned, including Russian, and other languages spoken by my colleagues. So there's nothing to be said about democracy. So once again, I suggest you re-read the second reading and work professionally on all the problems I've said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u335	Thank you. I would like to comment to the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u336	Dear colleague Pisarenko, this is the Law on the Use of Ukrainian as a State Language. I understand that you'd like to ban all other languages, perhaps to disrupt some, for provocation. The law does not prohibit any language, there is no problem with it. The editing, by the way, is a colleague of Cotwich, who was counted. It is a terminological and included in an edition approved by the committee. The law is absolutely democratic and will be adopted by the vote of the people's deputies. I don't see any problems with this law. Once again, he forbids nothing and no one, despite your calls, Comrade Pisarenko, a colleague of Germany, or anyone else, to forbid any language. We will not ban the language, nor will we ban the Russian language, however you wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u337	Thank you. You'll insist on confirmation, won't you? All right, let's move on. Next amendment number 1904. National MP Pisarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u338	Thank you. Of course you won't forbid anything, don't write about it. But you exclude from all spheres of life all other languages except Ukrainian. That's exactly what I'm talking about. First of all, once again, I'm a supporter of the Constitution. Ukrainian language is the only national language that should be represented in all areas of life, and I'm responsible for it. But in private life, I say once again that people should use the languages they want. With regard to these amendments I made. They refer to the question of setting the level of ownership. I suggested that we rule it out or do a large transition period so that we don't put restrictions on people's participation in certain jobs in certain categories in order to. Even this is about the President right now, so that we don't have officials of the expert boards to determine who might be president or in some position or who speaks good Ukrainian or who's bad. That's why I'm asking for confirmation. Thank you. Voting, by the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u339	I'd like the committee head to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u340	Once again, the law does not regulate the use of languages in private life. He stresses that he does not regulate, and I stress this, the use of languages in private life. In private life, citizens have the right to speak any language. As confirmation of this, it is this very norm, which speaks only of the President of Ukraine, who, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, is obliged to speak Ukrainian. Since, according to the Constitution, he is obliged to speak the national language, and the order of the testimonials is governed by the Language Law itself, with a view to harmonizing procedures with one another, appropriate changes should be made to this Law on State Language. Thus, the amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u341	Please vote. [[13:32:28]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1906. National deputy of Germany, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u342	What about 905?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u343	905 does not insist on the amendment. Please, 906.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u344	Colleagues, I'd like to recharge, look at the Constitution, the Constitution predicts that the President. A person who speaks Ukrainian, among other things, can run for office as President. What do we see here? You're legally supplementing the Constitution. Who's this for? That's who you want to close this one for. I'd like to make a point of what you're doing by this law. And you say here that the National Commission should say whether you own it properly or not. There's a term, it's a constitutional term. Then why are we here? There's no analogy here. And you understand what you're saying to the white black and familiar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u345	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u346	You write unconstitutional standards well known. It's just a word. You have the term "freedom" or something. But there's no such thing in the Constitution. Follow it. And what you said, I call it latent. I'm translating the word "latent." It's hidden, secret, from people the unimaginable actions that you're doing in these norms.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u347	Thank you. I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u348	Comrade Germanko, we are not in any way supplementing the Constitution, we are adopting the law to implement the Constitution. We don't change the Constitution. The term "powers" does not define the Constitution. And we don't have the term "freedom." This article speaks very differently. It explains the law, ensures the implementation of the Constitution. Period. Thank you. The committee recommends rejecting your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u349	Please vote. [[13:35:11]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1907. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u350	Mr. Reporter, if you don't understand the meaningful burden of words in law or in law, never apply the fact that we don't change the law of the Constitution. It's you who bring to space a legal definition that can't withstand any criticism. All the more to say that we do not change the Constitution. You read what the Constitution says to the President and what requirements you set for him. This is a notion in the right to narrow down his rights as a citizen who can apply for the office of President of Ukraine. That's all we're talking about. And you don't have to pretend here that you don't understand what Germany says. I'm telling you, it's unconstitutional and you can make it right. You can't? Then the Constitutional Court will decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u351	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u352	I'd like to work solely on the implementation platform of the Ukrainian Constitution. He can't interpret.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u353	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u354	Thank you. We are not in any way restricting the rights of the candidate because the Constitution states that the candidate for the presidency should speak the national language. The level of ownership is evidenced by the National Commission in the order established by the Language Law. So no one narrows anything down. And I, my colleague, am perfectly aware of what you're talking about. I hope that you will understand what the authors of the law and the members of the committee have said that they recommended that you reject this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u355	Please vote. [[13:37:29]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1908. People's deputy Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u356	Dear colleagues, the 1908 bill is included in the committee's editorial work. And I'm not going to sound it and insist on getting it confirmed. However, I would like to draw the attention of the committee, and I request very much. During our review of 1852 and 1857, some of our opponents, our colleagues, insisted that local self - government should be allowed to determine the right language, such as in transportation or a separate advertising agency during the review of 1857. Well, unfortunately, it's just a call for something that's not constitutional, because we have 10 articles of the Constitution that says that the national language is Ukrainian. And these are essentially calls for federalization. And I ask you to pay attention to the committee and not to maintain such a position as one that is anti-Ukrainian, it is a threat to the unity of our state and cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u357	Thank you. Let's move on. Amendment 1909. National deputy of Germany. I'm betting on confirmation. Please take full account of amendment number 1908. I've got confirmation. [[13:39:10]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1909. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u358	I'm talking about, I've just been asked to confirm and what to do about the President's issue. Again, we see that there is an attempt to influence, to enter the body of the Constitution from the point of view of the legal categories, into the content of the Constitution. And change the content of the Constitution, which is filled with concrete rules of direct action. Read article 8 of the Constitution that the Constitution is the highest legislative act, and everything else should be "on the dance floor" in this Constitution and answer to it. And if you pointed out and expanded your vision, not like the Constitution, then I would ask you to go back to the rule of law and the rule of the Constitution. That's what this is about. I'm asking you to make an exception.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u359	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u360	Thank you, colleague. So, look, the Constitution says, "The President of Ukraine may be a Ukrainian citizen who has reached 35 years of age, has the right to vote, resides in Ukraine for the last 10 years before the election day and speaks the national language." The question of how to deal with it is not open, but the law must reveal it. This amendment of yours provides for an exemption from the list of documents submitted by a candidate to the Presidents of Ukraine, a certificate of the level of language. In view of the fact that the level of ownership under this law is confirmed by the certificate itself, this amendment was rejected by the committee. The law does not distort the Constitution in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u361	Please vote. [[13:41:29]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1911. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u362	Ten! Ten!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u363	Honorable National Deputy Germany, Amendment 1910 is an amendment to the people’s representative, Sotnik. It is rejected. And only the national MP, Captain, can insist. Since the National MP, Captain, does not insist, your amendment is 1911. Please make a statement on the content of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u364	I don't insist. I'd like you to speak the Rules and inform them that someone's not asking for confirmation, someone's not supporting it, someone's making someone else who's making these amendments. And every MP needs to know about it. Read the Regulation on Information. Now, about the so-called "certificate." You can see that we are already preparing "certified presidents" -- this is what we're talking about. It's both simple and formal, and it's legal, it's essentially bullying. Take a moment, sit Nieza or Pharion. Pharaoh or Pharaoh, I don't know! - and install and issue a certificate to the Presidents. Do you understand what this is about? And that's how we look like a funny nation on this point. I wish you wouldn't let me in here. You've already entered the Presidential Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u365	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u366	It's about the status and the laws! Well, how can you keep a level, keep a level? a discussion on the level of certification of the Ukrainian language with regard to the President of Ukraine? What we are is the Ukrainian nation that writes about these senior officials, where they are, where they live, where they work and whether they live.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u367	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u368	Thank you, colleague. Well, you were a member of the Constitutional Court, you didn't press charges, you didn't go against the rule that the President should speak Ukrainian. In fact, as a nation, we have sometimes looked ridiculous in the eyes of the world, but I think of other reasons. Because with all your sympathy for our colleagues, our former colleague, Pharyon, or the public figure and author Nico, the commission itself is made up of a group of professors. And it is likely that there will be other people sitting there who will be chosen according to current legislation. And, yes, the President of Ukraine must speak Ukrainian, there is no great trouble here, so it is written in the Constitution. Your amendment has been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u369	Please vote. [[13:44:40]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1913, yes. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u370	Dear colleagues, the first thing I want to say in this direction is we've already moved with you to general secondary education. I would like to inform, more faithfully, to remind, both the presiding officer and to report that the Constitutional Court is looking at material on the unconstitutionality of the Education Act in its entirety, focusing on the full scope. You've put in this Act of Speech as a spineless educational law. And imagine: it is decided to be declared unconstitutional. What's not clear here? Look at the religious laws -- all suspended, all accused, open conduct in the Constitutional Court. [[Noise Nodes]] Don't yell, don't shout, there won't be any money. And that's why I'm asking for 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u371	I'd like to comment on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u372	Thank you. An honourable colleague, if the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is to be made, it is likely that this law will be amended. So far, no such decisions have been made. That's why your amendment is rejected, because the Secondary Education Act cannot contain any other regulation on the use of national language than the Education Act and the State Language Act. So with a view to bringing them into line with each other, this point, in our view, is necessary. As a result, your amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u373	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:46:53]] For the The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1913. Right? Please, National Deputy Germano.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u374	Because you already are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u375	I'm sorry, we've discussed the 13th. This is next in 1916, the German National Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u376	15th. 15th, Oksana Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u377	It's written that counts. Are you going to perform?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u378	Yeah, I'll do the gig.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u379	Please, National Deputy Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u380	I would like to read to the distinguished report of the European Commission for Democracy on the right of 11 December 2017 under educational law, where they made it clear that article 7 of the Education Act, which you refer to as preschool education, education and education, is discriminatory. I read literally: "However, part four of article 7 does not provide for solutions for languages that are not official, especially Russian as the most widely used language, except national language. Less favorable treatment of these languages is difficult to justify, and the issue of discrimination arises. Taking into account the above considerations, appropriate."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u381	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u382	Amendments to Article 7 should be made and this should be replaced by a more balanced and more clearly defined position. That's what this is about. The international institutions are not talking about unconstitutionality; they are talking about violations of international law and the Constitution; they are talking about norms that are ratified by us. And that's why I would like you to read this law, not refer to what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u383	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u384	Thank you. Well, colleague Germano, I hope that since this amendment of yours is counted, you will not insist on voting because it has already been counted. The amendment is counted because it excluded the title of article 7 of the Law on preschool education. Initially, it was a new edition of the article, and only the changes to certain parts of article 7 remained. That's why your amendment is counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u385	Thank you. Don't you insist on voting? No, it's not. Okay. The next amendment is Amendment 1916. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u386	I'm not going to read any more, I understood this system. I've informed you of a decision made by the Venice Commission. But I would like to warn you that ignoring, in your intention, ignoring the requirement of the European Commission, the European Commission of this, the Venice Commission, is about what they've turned to, turned to Ukraine and asked for an expert opinion on this bill. You hid it under your dress. You haven't shown the European community where you run. That's what this is about. You've even been approached by NATO representatives and told them what you're doing, look. It was already this year that they said it was unacceptable. European has spoken to you. The European Parliament said that such acts were discriminatory. And you continue to impose and deceive people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u387	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u388	And because of such latent standards that people can't understand, only when they hear it on themselves. Just like breaking the light, red.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u389	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u390	Dear colleague, I would like you to know that neither the European Commission nor the European Parliament nor NATO have addressed me. Similarly, I did not declare war on Britain, Germany, NATO or the European Parliament. There was no action. It's kind of a fiction using your logic, I'd say, a latent dream. The amendment was rejected because the issue of secondary education was already addressed in the Education Act. So in this case, it's only about duplicating these standards in a narrow secondary education law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u391	Thank you and vote, please. [[13:52:03]] For the The decision is not taken. Next Amendment 1918. 17th. Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u392	Yeah. I wanted to say, in this amendment, that you're talking about the need to protect all languages, and not just Ukrainian, yes. Even so, when even the main text of the law was a reference to the National Minorities Act in Ukraine, even this amendment is excluded. I understand that you're going to say that this law works, it's an unnecessary reference to it. But this is where the other authors came from, and I think it's the right thing to do, as we go through the text of the law, to show that we, that the legislation on language will be carried out, intersecting with other of our obligations, including international ones. And we respect the rights of national minorities, and we respect the norms that exist today in European charters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u393	Thank you. I'd like you to comment on the committee's head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u394	Thank you. The reference to the Law on National Minorities is excluded in accordance with the Supreme Council’s decree on the adoption of this law in the first reading. So it's been ruled out for a long time. Instead, there is a reference to the Education Act and this Act on State Language, which collectively contains regulations on the application of other languages in education. So in this case it was enough to refer to the basic law. That was the committee’s decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u395	Thank you. Next amendment number 1918 of People's Deputies Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u396	Thank you. My amendments are about really implementing in this law a reference to various legislative acts that protect human rights. It's a ratification. and the European Charter of Regional Languages and/or Minority Languages, and National Minorities, and the ratification of the European Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. What's more, I want to support here the ideas that my colleagues said that we need to be very careful about language development in the education system. And I suggested that we look at language development, so that our children not only speak Ukrainian as a national language, but also speak other languages for their own development, studying languages and cultures of different peoples. That is why the development of Russian and the development of English as a language of world business communication would be appropriate in the education system. And I think we need to focus on children's development rather than narrowing down language issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u397	Thank you. I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u398	Thank you. A fellow official, article 21 of this law, says that the State is promoting the learning of languages of international communication, especially English, in public utilities. What you're talking about is clearly stated in the law. This amendment was rejected because the legislative acts listed in the amendment do not contain regulation of the language of secondary education. In addition, they are essentially accepted and are therefore required to enforce, like all other laws, as well as international acts that have a nature comparable to the law or even higher than certain Ukrainian laws, so there is no contradiction here and therefore your amendment was rejected. This does not mean that these conventions that you mention and the charters do not need to be carried out. It's just that there's no need to mention them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u399	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:56:09]] For the five of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u400	The decision is not made. 1919 law. Don't insist. 1920. 19th. Please, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u401	There was talk here, and my previous colleague was talking about that article 7, well, it doesn't fit. There is the Education Act, which is disputed in this section, that here is clearly a violation of the constitutional norms of our Ukraine. For the rapporteur, I would like to read Resolution No. 2189 (2017) “The Assembly recommends that Ukraine study the preface of the practice of the member states of the Council of Europe in the teaching of official languages that use regional or minority languages.” The Assembly requests the Ukrainian authorities to fully implement future recommendations and conclusions of the Venice Commission and to replace the Education Act accordingly. If you don't know that, dear colleague, it's for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u402	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u403	I feel sorry for you. And as for what I don't know about this, as you put it here, well, don't act like you look like you're a shoelace in a police state's coat of arms. That's what this is about. And I'd like it if you're speaking, that I don't know about it, that's all. Who are you? You must know. And read the expert conclusion, it's all clearly stated that it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u404	I'm making a note. I ask you to avoid personal images during the discussion of the bill. I'm asking you to talk about it essentially. Such an appeal to the head of the committee and the narrator is unacceptable, unacceptable. Colleagues, I have worked hard to ensure that there are no elements of conflict in the room, and God forbid they begin, Mr. Germany, God forbid. I ask everyone to behave intelligently, disciplined and restrained. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u405	Thank you. Dear German colleague, we agreed that we were polite, didn't we? Do you have a deal? Thank you. It's a deal, thank you. The Constitutional Court, my colleague, did not accept anything about the Education Act. So there was no such decision. Your opinion is not that of the Constitutional Court. In the expert opinion, there was nothing about the Hague Commission or any other commission. This amendment was taken into account in the committee’s editorial work. Included in part one of the first paragraph. Regarding Braille, the committee believes that the matter should be governed by a separate law, but it goes beyond the powers of the State Language Act. And we're going to do everything we can to make sure that these standards are taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-23-m0.u406	So, dear fellows, I'm betting on the 1919 vote. Please vote, it's on the committee's agenda. Who's in charge of taking it all into account, please vote. [[13:59:47]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, 14 years old. I want to point out that after the break, we'll start with the 1920s, after the break, after the break. The authors are Germany and Shufrich. You will determine which one of you will act. And I'm asking you to continue the discussion at 4:00. Thank you very much. And, colleagues, so, 14 hours. And I have to announce that the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 16 o'clock, I'm asking everyone to come to the hall to continue our work.
