ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. I want to remind you that we're 92, right? On the 92nd Levchenka. Colleagues, I want to tell you the logic of the afternoon. After this law. Attention, colleagues! We have already prepared a request for illegal actions by the Russian Federation regarding the issue of foreign passports. And so after this bill, I'm going to propose to put in the agenda for decision-making. And if we can make it, we can take it today. 'Cause then it's only two weeks to wait, colleagues, after that. We also have after this law two Euro-Integration Laws from the section of the Fuel-Energy Complex. And I hope we can make it if we work together. I predict that we're going to review this law at about 4:30 p.m., and we're going to get out of here, as I've been counting the adjustments that have been made. And that's why I'm asking everyone to mobilize for 4:30. After this law we include in the order of the day our joint appeal to the illegal actions of the Russian aggressor. And now I'm asking you to continue your paperwork. But before that, I'm asking you to register for the evening session. So, colleagues, please register for the evening session. Please register. [[16:04:46]] 355 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Right-wing authors please prepare and also head of the committee to prepare. I remind you, 92 copies, the authorship of Levchenk. Please turn on the microphone. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u2	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, the next time I do this, it's one of the issues in this bill that's crippling the positive elements of this bill. The point is that the bill predicts that auctions will only be introduced for solar stations with a power of more than 10 MW and a wind power of more than 20 MW. And this allows large stations to use a legal auction avoidance scheme by artificially breaking stations into multiple lines of 10-20 MW each. So I'm going to suggest that we put this rule in a different way, by defining that. Having determined, in fact, that such auction standards should apply to stations of no more than 5 MW, for stations of more than 5 MW, in fact, not as proposed – more than 10 and more than 20. In order not to be able to circumvent the auction requirements and not be able to, in fact, absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u3	30 seconds. Oh, please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u4	Dear colleague, I would like to invite you to read the bill in a second reading. I'll explain it to you: because solar projects over 1 megawatt (note 1 megawatt) and wind energy projects over 5 megawatts are auctioned on January 1, 20. That norm that you just sounded was in the first reading that was fundamentally and fundamentally changed to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u5	Thank you. I'm betting on the 92 vote. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:07:18]] For-16 The decision is not taken. 94th. Don't insist. 95th. Don't insist. 98th. Don't insist. 102nd. What's that? 100th. I'm sorry, I'll be right back. So 100 revisions. Please, Wojcietzka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, the law is offered in the entire system, which deals with auctions on renewable energy sources, and there is another way to incline Dergenergoefficiency, which is simply absolutely unnecessary. But I would like to point out something else. We're just being systematically lied to here, and they're lying about the need to put in auctions from January 1, 2020, which is impossible to do before. I would like to remind you that my colleague Lev Podlisecki's bill was introduced last year. If we didn't have a thousand and one working group, all of these discussions, we could have introduced these auctions since January 1, 2019. Today, the sun earns about 25 percent of the euro and 15 percent of the euro in the wind. I have a simple question. Dear Ukrainians, do you get paid in euros? Can you afford, for example, to make such huge money for your investments, investments? Can the state offer them to you elsewhere? No, it's not. You're being lied to. And they're lying about what they're saying is that it's impossible to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u7	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u8	And it's impossible to put in auctions that have already been launched around the world since 1st, for example, July 2019. I want to remind you that today in Ukraine we pay you the highest fare on the sun and the highest rate on the wind, much more than in rich Germany. It's an absolute disgrace, as you're all being lied to today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u9	I'd like the committee head to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u10	Dear Mrs. Vojtsiecki, first of all, I would like to thank you sincerely for your very correct and moral attitude towards me as a colleague. If anyone is talking about a lie, I can tell a lot of stories about who's lying, where he's lying, and where he's sitting. But from this rostrum, from a political and moral point of view, I'm not going to do that. But second position. I don't remember Mrs. Vojcitsky's edit, which would cancel or propose a green tariff or any other model to untie the euro. You do the work, bring it in, and then start talking about who's lying in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u11	Thank you. Please correct number 100 to vote for confirmation. [[16:10:39]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 101 of the People's Deputy. It's counted. Amendment number 102. There's no insistence on a national MP. Number 103. He insists. Please, National Deputy Katzer-Buchkowska.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u12	Colleagues, a very important amendment. First of all, I think that the Cabinet of Ministers, when it determines the quotas, how much to set up each year of green energy auctions, should be governed primarily by an energy strategy by 2035, and secondly by an association agreement that Ukraine has undertaken to achieve 11 percent of the green energy in final consumption. So I think that these two software documents need to be included in this law, which will be the orientation for the Cabinet of Ministers, which will guarantee that these auctions will be held because there is a risk that they will not be held in principle. And this will also guarantee the fulfilment of our commitments to the European Energy Community and the European Union, so I insist on adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u13	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u14	Please put on confirmation. The committee did not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u15	Please vote. [[16:12:25]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Next amendment to 105 People's Deputy Rybchin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u16	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. My paper sets out the responsibility of the relevant minister, i.e. the Energy Ministry, which should conduct auctions if they fail to implement this bill and do not assign quotas to be auctioned on green tariffs. Thus it is written: "In the event of a breach of the deadlines for the establishment or failure to set annual quotas under the mandate of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, disciplinary implementation may be initiated with regard to the head of the relevant ministry." There is a warning that, if this law is passed, and the minister will be reluctant to reserve renewable energy sources or want to interfere with certain processes, then the Prime Minister will be obliged to make this minister aware that, I think, politically, it will not be very attractive for any minister. And this tool of influence, including business and association, on a minister who is against the development of a green generation. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u17	The committee rejected the amendment. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u18	Please vote. [[16:14:00]] For-23 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 108. Nope. 107. Please, National Deputy Victoria Vojcitsicka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask for confirmation of this amendment and not to support it. I also want to continue the discussion on the introduction of green energy auctions. I would like to remind the great executive responsibility of the chairman of the relevant committee that I insisted on, and I had the appropriate remedies, which unfortunately were rejected by the committee, for the introduction of the auctions right from April 1, 2019. And I don't see it at all necessary to talk about the fact that it's impossible to get auctions in before 1 January 2020. Ukraine’s consumer cannot pay today’s revenues for specific oligarchs, which, by the way, provide the largest sums of money during 2019, using almost all the powers that can be realized to avoid endangering our energy system. And by the way, we talked about this on the committee that today's development, as it develops, of green energy, puts our entire energy system at risk. And the Ukrainian Security Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u20	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u21	And the Ukrainian Security Service has also spoken about this, by the way, over and over again. So I urge the whole room not to support this bill if it does not address the key issue of introducing auctions from July 1, 2019 as the latest date.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u22	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u23	Mrs. Victoria, thank you very much. But I want to remind you that today is not April 1st, but April 25th. If we're talking about your revision. That's true. But we were talking about the euro course, and I was talking about an adjustment that wasn't related to the green tariff to a euro that wasn't there. So let's not do insinuations here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u24	Please put to the vote. Please put it on confirmation, yes. Please vote. [[16:16:32]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Let's move on. Next amendment number 108. There's no insistence on a national MP. Amendment 110, National Deputy Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u25	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. The auction model, it refers to several types of generations -- the sun and wind that go to auctions, but there are also certain quotas for biogas, biomass and quotas for hydro and geothermal energy. My amendment is that these kinds of energy can be competitive, and they're not lost in the volume of the sun, the wind. We realize that biomass and biogas, unfortunately, are not developing as well as other kinds of generations. And Ukraine, as an agrarian country, has a huge potential, so there is a proposal for individual quotas and individual auctions that will act in this direction to make Ukraine more developed in this regard, so that biogas, biomass, can contain Russian gas or gas from other countries now hoping in Ukraine, Russian gas, regardless of who we're paying the subject, so this needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u26	Thank you. I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u27	Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u28	Please vote. [[16:18:27]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 111. You don't insist. 117, National Deputy Bilkova. Don't you insist? 119th. There's no insistence on a national MP. 121st National MP Rybchin. 120th. Please. Okay. Let's go first, Deputy MacKeenko. Yeah? Martovitch. I'm so sorry. National MP Martovicki. And then the national deputy of Belkova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. I'm paying attention to my colleagues that the content of this amendment is aimed at improving the regulation of lending to the reconstruction generation. The point is that the bill sets up a system to stimulate VDE by principle: either by green tariff, or by incentive at auction price. So the opening of auctions from 01.07.2019 means that there is no green tariff for producers who received credit at the time of adoption of the bill. The corresponding loss of green tariffs excludes the possibility of projects being implemented and excludes the return of loans received. We are now deliberately introducing a norm that is appropriate. Our international financial partners won't get the loans back. This is, in my opinion, State discredit. You can't say that, so I'm asking you to put number 120 on confirmation and ask your colleague to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u30	Please, National Deputy Bilkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u31	Madam Chairman, dear colleagues, I am very surprised by this explanation of my amendment. I insist that no such thing is discredited, but this amendment, on the other hand, allows the Cabinet to announce auctions for those who wish, are not obliged, but wants to go to auctions within the next six months. Why does such opposition come to my attention? And because if you run these auctions, it will immediately become clear how much the current green tariff is exceeded, how many new investors there are today who want to come to Ukraine and give Ukrainian consumers more favourable conditions. I insist that this amendment be supported. If she is not supported as a member of this committee, I ask you not to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u32	Mr. Chairman of the Committee, will you comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, I would like us to understand one very simple thing: that today's green tariff is really one of the highest. And that's why we're moving into the form of an auction, and that's why we're reducing the green tariff in order to. That the Ukrainian consumer has no opportunity today to carry such heavy loads on his shoulders. And that's true. But the law that we are considering today, if it is voted and adopted today, is not an ideal law. But if it's not accepted, we're going to have a catastrophic situation with you in Ukrainian energy if we leave today as everything is. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u34	Thank you. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[16:22:25]] For-83 Unfortunately, the amendment is not supported. Next amendment number 121. People's MP Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u35	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. Yes, indeed, there is one key question: when auctions are put in place. This is one key right over which many spears were broken on the committee. And in general, the question of auctions, I support the transition to auctions, but one is a flaw compared to the model that is now working, the green tariffs. Green tariffs are too high, we need to reduce them. But the question of moving to green auctions gives too much weight to executive power and there is a fear in the market that because of the impact on the minister, because of the influence on executive power, because of the influence of large corporations, certain processes in the development of the green generation can be halted. And I support, let's make better money on the green generation, and there's going to be an ecologically clean generation that's going to be. And the energy our children will consume, the energy that pollutes the environment. My job is to make auctions at least twice a year. The auctions are now under way. are obliged to spend twice a year. But most of the key warnings that I have, many of the colleagues who support, are too large scales that go to executive power that can prevent the development of the green generation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u36	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u37	Please put on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u38	Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u39	The committee turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u40	Please vote. [[16:24:03]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 122. There's no insistence on a national MP. 123. National deputy of the Ephesians, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u41	I would like to contact the presiding officer about Amendment 85, whose author is the reporter. Suggest an editorial refinement of this bill, which we have worked with representatives of the professional associations and the political forces. Let me read the detailed version of Rule 85. "For the acquisition of the right to support the operators who intend to produce electricity from wind energy or solar radiation, they are obliged to participate in the auction, if such operators intend to produce electricity from objects of electricity or queues (launching complexes) of electrical energy objects whose capacity is established: for objects producing electricity from wind energy (except those with three wind turbines regardless of the installed power of such turbines) - more than 5 megawatts; for objects producing electricity from solar energy - more than 1 megawatts." I'm talking to you. We can set up the chi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u42	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u43	As the author of this amendment, I do not object to such an editorial. If the hall supports it, please. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u44	Please vote. [[16:25:54]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 124. There's no insistence on a national MP. 127. Don't insist. 128. Don't insist. 130. People's MP Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u45	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The proposal in the bill for the establishment of a bank guarantee to participate in auctions of 5,000 euros per megawatt is irrelevant, needs to be amended. Yes, the proposed size of the guarantee does not fit world practice, first. And secondly, and most importantly, such low requirements for bank guarantee can entail the risk of participating in auctions and well-founded companies and simulated competition in the first years of auctioning. Well, actually, as we can see, the constant imitation of competition in government purchases, especially now, although we seem to have ProZorro, right? So given the above, I propose to predict the size of a bank guarantee of 10,000 euros per megawatt, 2 times what is proposed for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u46	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u47	Well, I want to point out that we're actually behind the auction of 5,000 euros per megawatt, and for the company that won, plus 15,000 euros. From our point of view, we consulted on the committee, discussed, looked at the same experience in the countries of the European Union, and 20,000 euros in mortgages on 1 megawatt for the company that won the auction is enough to make it a commitment and build. So the committee rejected the amendment. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u48	Thank you. Please put to the vote. [[16:27:58]] For-29 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 131. Mrs. Belkova Ola doesn't insist. 136th, Mrs. Buchkovska. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u49	Colleagues, my readjustment refers to the fact that when auctions were only auctioned. Just one participant, I think this auction should be held because we can't guarantee that, first of all, there will be competition in all generations. It's an illusion that there's a lot of competition in this market and that there are different powers in different areas. Therefore, I believe that we should not restrict competition, and we should not restrict participants from participating in an auction if there is one participant, nor should we allow the auction to be cancelled when more participants have appeared. So I'm asking you to uphold my standard so that we can still conduct these auctions, not treat them as invalid.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u50	Please identify yourself by. I'm sorry. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u51	We had a discussion. It is the form of a competitive auction, a severe competitive auction, that can determine the minimum price. That's why we had this discussion, and we think this is wrong, because then there's a fact and the possibility by some insinuation for 20 years to leave the green tariff formula for individual participants in the so-called auction. So the committee turned it down. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u52	Please be sure. [[16:29:53]] For-23 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment. Yvchenko does not insist. Martovitch, don't you insist? 142th, please. 142th, Mr. Martovitchki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u53	Thank you. I'm proposing that the amendment look like the next one. "According to the results of auctions carried out on the distribution of the annual quota of support in the relevant year, a self-managing entity or, together with other operators with which it has a joint end-of-life owner, shall not be entitled to receive more than 35 per cent of the annual quota of support for the year in question." I ask you to put my amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u54	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, we also discussed this standard. And if we're talking about an effective auction, a competitive price, and a reduction, a substantial reduction in consumer price, which politicians claim here, then 25 percent is much more competitive, and that means getting a better price, a cheaper price in the auction process, so we've decided 25. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u56	Thank you. I'd like you to identify for this amendment, 142nd. [[16:31:38]] For-36 The correction is being rejected. Next up, 147th. National MP Lewchenko insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u57	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, this amendment of mine concerns, once again, the issue of an additional irrevocable bank guarantee. We've discussed this before. Unfortunately, my previous draft was not counted. I suspect this one won't be counted either. But I would like to draw attention to what was said to the rapporteur about the need for this bill and so on. I'd go to the reporter, and most of them, who are still on this Supreme Council, don't engage in outright blackmail. What's going on? Realizing that we really need to deal with the over-green tariff, you say that either we accept this imperfect bill, or we're going to have a catastrophe, and so on and so forth. Because we're not going to be reduced by a completely absurd green tariff. And it's an open blackmail and an absurd question in general. Why not pass a normal law immediately without all these underwater stones that would solve the problem, but not have absolutely negative elements in it? Why not? Just to give Rinato Leonidovich something, right? Well, if you'll excuse me, this isn't the position of responsible Ukrainian politics, this is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u58	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u59	I have this feeling that Rinat Leonidovich is paying you to advertise what you're talking about, to advertise it all the time in the Supreme Council and in front of the entire Ukrainian society. Believe me, I think everyone understands that today hundreds of companies are working in the field of renewable energy. As far as you're concerned, I've been explaining, and I've been working on the committee in detail. The committee turned it down. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u60	Please identify yourself for this amendment. [[16:33:43]] For the 15th. The correction is being rejected. Colleagues, if I understand correctly, we are approaching the end of our amendments. And please return to the session room, because there will be a vote in just a few minutes. If I understand correctly. What's that? Are you insisting, Mr. Rybchin? 176th. Please, Mr. Rybczy's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u61	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. There are certain things I have criticized in this bill. Yet this bill has a number of positive things, one of them is the solution to the issue of energy cooperatives. I thank my colleagues for supporting the inclusion of cooperatives and de facto comparing them to small consumers. Energy cooperatives are an organization of people that allows resources to be consolidated and directed towards solving common energy problems. In fact, it allows citizens to provide all their needs, both individual and shared, in terms of energy consumption, heat, fuel, energy efficiency services, electricity production, the practical use of any source. And I encourage Ukrainians to join in energy cooperatives. If this bill is supported, and the changes that have been broken down before, they don't undermine the logic of supporting energy cooperatives, the cooperative movement in Ukraine will be given, let's say, such a nice boost. And I hope this will be a good example for investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u62	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u63	I thank Alexia Rybchin because the form of the energy cooperative is really important and promising. In the part where the committee thought it was effective, we included its position, and it is in the second reading. In this case, we decided to reject it. I hope Mr. Alexei agrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u64	Don't insist. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Next. Please have a word with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u65	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. I just want to add that, unfortunately, in Ukraine, only 12 percent of renewable energy is produced by small consumers and 88 percent by large players. That's why I and many of my colleagues have focused on supporting very small consumers, small players, because that's the general logic of renewable energy sources: locally produced -- locally consumed. And energy cooperatives, it's basically a base, for example, in Germany, where I have statistics in 2012, I have more than a thousand energy companies, and 46 percent of the installed solar power was produced by them. By the way, the EU's Fourth Energy Package Clean Energy for All Europeans has been approved by a number of incentives to participate in energy cooperatives and small consumers themselves for energy generation. That's why further support for the green generation, and further legislative activity, should be aimed at supporting very small consumers. And for us, this will be a challenge, hopefully even for this Parliament to improve the situation in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u66	You don't insist on voting. Amendment 227 is yours. Do you insist on your words? Thank you very much. Then the next amendment. Martovitch, 231st. Mr. Martovicki, 231 corrections! Don't insist, I understand. Are you insisting? I can't see. No, it's not. Thank you. 231, Mr. Rybchin. Don't insist. Yeah, 235th. Mr. Rybchin doesn't insist. Mr. Alexander, prepare to sum it up now, yes. Yes, Wojcietsky, 240 revisions. Mrs. Wojcietzka, 240 amendment! Don't insist. Okay. Yes, Mrs. Wojcietsky, 250th. Don't insist. What's that? Mr. Levchenko. I couldn't help but notice. Please turn on Mr. Levchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u67	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This is my last amendment, which also applies to, in fact, cleaning up the appropriate preferences for Mr. Ahmedov. And I'd like to answer the answer to his archery from the rostrum when he's here talking about some commercial for Ahmedov and so on. You know, please, you have no right at all to say something like that, because today, in general, your authority today is oligarchy, you've had Ahmtova's benefit today, when the Antimonopoly Committee handed him two arches and even more cemented his monopoly. Your Anti-Monopoly Committee, which has no relation to anti-monopoly legislation, has about the same relationship with ballet as the Anti-Monopoly Committee. And now in this Supreme Council, you're pushing for a bill that instead of dealing with completely anti-national green tariffs that wash hundreds of millions out of the government budget, you're letting these hundreds of millions continue to wash away. So don't get jealous. You don't fertilize because you've been working for the oligarhat instead of working for the Ukrainian people, which you've been doing for the last four years. And it would be time to dissolve this criminal Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u68	I thank you for asking questions at the same time and for answering them at the same time. That the legislators have no relation and have no right to the Antimonopoly Committee. And I, as Ukraine's national deputy, as well as you, have nothing to do with the Antimonopoly Committee, with the decisions they make. I think you need to read the Constitution, read the relevant laws, authorize the Antimonopoly Committee and its area of responsibility, and the Ukrainian Parliament, and not ask questions that do not fall within our jurisdiction, the National Deputies of Ukraine, the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u69	Thank you. I'm voting 241. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Vote. [[16:40:04]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, 242 finals. Lock-in, everyone, please enter the hall. And Vojcitsky, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u70	I'm asking you to put her on the stand and not vote for her, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u71	Please, Mr. Alexander, 242nd. Mr. Alexander, 242nd 242rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u72	I think you can. Put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u73	So I'm going to vote 242 for confirmation. Whoever supports this amendment has supported it, please vote. This is the last correction. [[16:41:13]] For-41 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, we've finished the law review. Now I'm giving my word to the head of the committee for three minutes so he can adjust how we vote. And in three minutes, we're moving on to making a decision. I would like to point out that after that we will have a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of our Order of Appeal to International Organizations for the Aggressive Activities of the Russian Federation in Occupied Territories. And then we're going to have the PEC bloc bills that are needed for Euro-integration. So my big request, after the vote not to split up, but to stay in the hall and participate in the work of the session, was a very big request. Now, three minutes from now, Dombrowski will offer us a vote, and in two or three minutes, we'll move on to a decision. I ask the factions to invite all the deputies to the hall. And I'm asking the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite the deputies into the hall, please. Mr. Dombrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u74	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I'd like everyone to concentrate and calm down. But in my opinion, if possible, I would like to make sure that no one blames anyone for lobbying or any insinuation on the adoption of an honest, transparent, competitive, auction law on the development of renewable energy, and I would like to go back to the four rights that I was approached by the people's deputies. 85 revisions, that's my amendment that Mr. Maxim was talking about. Once again, put to the vote 120 amendments that Mrs. Bilkova insisted on. And to vote another very important amendment, I'm the author of this amendment, which refers to a small generation that relates to 50 kilowatts, this is regulation 24. Friends, I want you to listen very carefully to me, and I insist that the 24th amendment be voted out, because if the 24th amendment that relates to supporting a small generation of households, where we have up to 50 kilowatts, we take it, we go back to the first reading standard, where we have a completely different model. So then we have a full balance. The bill is balanced. So I insist, and I very much ask for support for 24 amendments, which is the principle of supporting a small generation. All advocates of a small divided generation. We have 30 kilowatts today, and that law allows us to have 50 kilowatts. And I'm asking you to set up and maintain this. That's why Maxim, Bilkova, and I see he raises Arthur Volodymyrovich's hand, please explain. And then we put it on the vote as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u75	So, colleagues, the job is this: first I'm going to put back the rights that Dombrovsky called, then their confirmation, and then the voting for the law. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I see a lot of MPs have split up. Colleagues, return to the hall, please. Go back to the hall. I'm actually going to put those changes that Dombrowski called under the transcript. Yeah? You named it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u76	24th, 85th again, 120th and 43rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u77	So, colleagues, I'm putting the first vote on the proposal to go back to the lines that Dombrovsky's head of the committee, Alexander Georgievicz, under the transcript. Please prepare for the vote and please support the return to your right. Please vote and please support the return to your right. Vote! Please vote. We're backing up! Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:45:40.]] For 242 We're back. Now I'm betting on confirmation of an amendment that the head of the committee called a stenogram. Please vote, please support. Please vote for confirmation. Please vote. [[16:46:03]] For 226 And now I'm putting draft Law 8449d in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support in the second reading and in general. Voting, supporting. Please support, we vote. [[16:46:30.]] For 251 Decision taken, colleagues. Hello! We have a concentration in the hall, don't break up, I have a big request. Our next project, colleagues, is the Russian Aggression Ordinance. Two or three more minutes, committee, we'll let go of another law, and then we'll let go of the Aggression Order. Don't separate, now, colleagues, attention, a big request from the committee to now include in the agenda of the daily session a draft Decision on Parliamentary Hearings on the topic "Contemporary state and current tasks of the state policy of Ukraine in the field of energy security." It doesn't need to be included, it doesn't need to be included. I am. Colleagues, pay attention! Don't move, please don't break up. I will now set up a day-to-day session to decide to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Council of Europe and their Parliamentary Assembly, the European Parliament, the Inter-Parliamentary Union on the criminal decision of the leadership of the Russian Federation on the issue of Russian passports to Ukrainian citizens in the occupied areas of Donbas. Colleagues, us. We can't wait another two weeks. I have a request today to include in the agenda of the day's session a decision not to wait another two weeks for 10259. Please vote in favour of the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Please vote, please support. Voting, supporting. [[16:48:28]] For 177 Colleagues, people are confused. I'm asking everyone to focus. We are now considering a proposal from a group of national deputies led by the Head of the Supreme Council to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international organizations condemning the decisions of the Russian Federation to issue Russian passports to Ukrainian citizens. Apparently, they weren't. I'm asking you, colleagues, to concentrate and take part in the vote. I'm going to put it again. I'm going to ask everyone to come back to the hall. It is the national interest of Ukraine and the proposal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please show the factions of the previous vote. Peter Poshenko Block – 67, People's Front – 56, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 11, Radical Party – 16, Fatherland – 6, Will of the People – 2, Rebirth Party – 3. Guys, don't joke, come back to the hall. I once again put a motion to vote: to include in the agenda of the day a decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the UN, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the criminal decision of the leadership of the Russian Federation to issue Russian passports to Ukrainian citizens in the occupied territories of Donbas. Please vote and please support. Guys, we're voting! Come into the hall, Dubnevich! Come into the hall! It's against Russian aggression, please, boys! Please vote and please support. Voting, supporting. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:50:28]] For-198 And what is it, my friends? Colleagues, come on. We didn't make it, okay. Colleagues, I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. It can't be that way, colleagues, it can't be that way. I'm begging you, I'm going to read the factions. Don't go out there, it's irresponsible. We looked forward to this application to vote on it today. "Block of Petra Dustenka" – 79. There's got to be more. People's Front is 61. We're going to mobilize! Opposition Block - 0, Self-help - 11. Is there any warning? Tell me if there's any warning. The Radical Party is 15, Fatherland is 6. I can do more! "The will of the people" - 3. My colleagues, we can do more. The Rebirth Party is 4 and the non-faction party is 19. I'm asking everyone to mobilize. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall and get ready. We've been waiting for the highest concentration, and please take your jobs now. So are they ready? Everybody in? Is everyone coming? I'll make another offer. By the way, I want to remind you, according to the Rules, I can put a few times, I can put an offer into the agenda of the day session to make a decision. And I very much ask everyone to take up jobs and support, colleagues. It's the authority of Ukraine, it's the support of our citizens in the occupied territories. So I would like to support the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, the Inter-Parliamentary Union, diplomatic representations of foreign states in Ukraine on the criminal decision of the Russian Federation to issue Russian passports to Ukrainian citizens in the occupied territory of Donbas (No. 10259). Please vote. Please support the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Colleagues, we vote. Every voice! Please, boys. Every voice. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice! Vote. We're backing it up. Vote. Attention! Vote. [[16:53:29]] For 215 I'll put it again, it's completely in line with the Rules. Look, please, at the people who are not around, invite them. Two deputies came in, that's not enough. Don't come out of the hall, please. So, "Peter Poshenko's Block" is 86, "The People's Front" is 63, "The Opposition Block" is 0, "The Self-Help" is 14, "The Radical Party is 17, "The Fatherland" is 7, "The Will of the People" is 3. Hold on, guys! Jaroslav Moskalenko, please support. "Rebirth Party" is 3, non-fractional is 22. Colleagues, 11 votes. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, we can't help it. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Help, faction heads, mobilize factions. So now I'm going to make this proposal again, and then we're going to go over it. I'm asking everyone to maximize their mobility. I'm asking you to support me, with the will of the people, please. So, everybody in the seats, colleagues, can we vote? Prepared? I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a criminal decision by the leadership of the Russian Federation on the issue of Russian passports to Ukrainian citizens in occupied territories occupied by Russia in the areas of Donbas. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Every voice is impeccable. We're voting carefully. Colleagues, may I vote, at the head of the committee of Dombrowski? Stop the discussion! Please vote. So we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we Get back to your seats. Vote, please. Alexy, we vote, we vote. Alexei, we vote, Rybchin! [[16:55:54]] For 232 Decision taken. Congratulations. Let us now consider the appeal of the Supreme Council (10259), and I ask that we support the proposal for a simplified procedure. Please vote, please support. We're voting for a cut. [[16:56:21]] For 171 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Everyone, please remain seated. Please, Mrs. Irina, report. The report, head of the committee, is to be prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u78	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. It seems to me that in the session room we have a complete, perhaps except for one parliamentary faction, a union and an understanding that we, as the country's main legislative body, must condemn the criminal decision of the President of the Russian Federation Putin, the President of the Aggressor country on gross interference in Ukraine's internal affairs. Russia, on the one hand, violating the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, has taken another step that is aimed at the destruction of real and international law, and agreements in the Normandy format, the Minsk Treaties, and we realize that this decision is legally worthless and that it cannot change the ownership of the inhabitants of the occupied areas of Donbas. At the same time, though, we are well aware of the danger that this unfriendly step poses. This is also an attempt to freeze the conflict in Donbas for many years, as Russia did in the case of Ossetia and other areas where hybrid methods were used. At the same time, it opens the gates of Russia to start perhaps a full - scale attack under the auspices of the citizens of Russia. Dear colleagues, there have already been appropriate hearings at the UN Security Council. Our international partners have condemned this decision by the Russian Federation and the President of Russia, but at the same time we see that very much, including international organizations and assemblies, they are willing to go to a rematch, particularly the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, returning the Russian delegation without any implementation by Russia of the resolutions of these organizations. And so our appeal should very clearly show that Ukraine will never agree with the surrender of sovereignty, there is a clear decision by Parliament, and we will stand up for this position on all international sites. And, Your Honor, I ask you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u79	30 seconds. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Hanna Hopko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u80	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In fact, I wanted to thank the initiators for the prompt response. I think the Supreme Council of Ukraine must be very hard to condemn Putin's actions. And we understand clearly why the Kremlin chief is handing out passports right now. Now, members of the committee, some of them being co-sponsored by this appeal, there are some suggestions. But the key thing for us is that, in fact, this decree violates one of the fundamental principles of international law. We also clearly understand that the adoption of a decree granting citizenship to citizens of Ukraine by the Russian Federation is also in grave violation of the principle of non-deployment. And we also clearly understand that the main risk is the deterioration of the attitude of the occupying administration towards Ukrainian citizens who refuse to take advantage of the possibility of obtaining RF citizenship. And what are the legal consequences of Russia’s actions? In the first place, other States should support the non-recognition of any rights of the Russian Federation, which may be referred to by the application of the Citizenship Ordinance. We also believe that such actions are an escalation of conflict and a basis for increasing deterrence against the Russian Federation, as well as requirements for sanctions. And so, dear colleagues, right now we, members of the committee, those who have become co-authors, as well as others, will discuss and support this address, given that the real next week is non-plenary, and the reaction of Ukraine, particularly before the UN Radbez meeting, and Parliament in the parliamentary-presidential republic is extremely important. And that's why I think we should give back to these Kremlin attempts through passporting to escalate the situation in the east. And to our Western partners, how many more arguments and criminal actions does the Kremlin need for you to finally press the roadside regime and make it uncomfortable for it to continue its aggression against Ukraine?Oh, my God! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u81	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. I'll add you, yes. But the first ones are the ones who signed up. So, from the People's Front, Igor Lapin, please. Lapin of the Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I propose you put a dot once and for all, and you all understand one simple thing: Russia is an aggressor country! They entered the Transnistria, and they entered Abkhazia, so they enter all over the world. The Russian president’s wife once said that Russia ends up where the Russian language ends. And Putin said Russia didn't end up anywhere. So, I, after all, offer to support this appeal so that all of Europe will once and for all understand -- the aggressor does not stop by himself, he stops when everyone becomes one against this aggressor. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u83	Heroic glory! From the Peter Prashenko Block to the performance, the head of the Arthur Gerasimov faction is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u84	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! The faction of the Party of Peter Dustenka strongly supports the adoption of this decision. Colleagues, we unite and vote in favour of this decree! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u85	Thank you. From the Radical Party, the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u86	One minute, one second! Are you going to perform?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u87	I'll give it to Dudenkov first, then to Laškov, right? That's how self-help is anyway. You won't be the last. It's still gonna be Fatherland and Self-Help. And Laszko needs to consult. I'd like to invite you to the presentation of Dudenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u88	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Now we're looking at a draft decision that doesn't call into question the coalition. They say we need to take the single front, we need to be supported, we need to be condemned. Is the Russian Federation doing the right thing for the issue of passports? Probably not. Who, then, creates favorable conditions for this? Who deprives Ukrainian citizens who live in an unsupervised territory of their pension rights? Who adopts discriminatory language laws that aim at creating a "language ghetto" that discriminates against Russian language? And who divides the Ukrainians into the right and the wrong? Who is now sowing dissension according to the sign of language, according to the religious sign? So trust me, if this decree were to apply to all Ukrainians who live in a controlled and uncontrolled territory, the number of Ukrainians who want it, Ukrainian citizens who have passported a Ukrainian citizen would be very large because there's stability, there's an economy and there's no strife. And now you're sowing disunity. You can't hear us when we say don't do that. The Ukrainian society is multilingual; it is multinational. Do Not Disunity! What are you doing? What kind of politics are you running right now? This is the result of this policy. And since obtaining passports will be voluntary, trust me, no one will force people there, they will go and get it themselves. This is the result of your government policy. You are ruining the state and disuniting the Ukrainian society.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u89	The leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, is invited to the presentation, then Oleg Berezjuk, then the Fatherland, then the will of the people. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u90	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. A colleague just from the Opposition Block spoke and assured the Ukrainian Parliament that the issuing of Russian passports would be voluntary and stressed, believe me. I have a question for my colleagues in the Environment. Do you represent the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation? Do you represent Russia in the Ukrainian Parliament that you guarantee the free issue of passports? I want to remind you, what Putin does with passports to Ukrainian citizens on occupied Donbassa, is what Hitler did when he was handing out passports to the inhabitants of occupied territories, so they did in Abkhazia, Ossetia, in parts of the occupied friendly Georgia. Russian passports are followed by Russian tanks, Russian cities and Russian weapons deaths, because Russian legislation provides for the right of the Russian Armed Forces to protect their fellow citizens even outside the Russian Federation. This is why Putin issued a decree on the handover of Russian passports to the Ukrainian Donbashi. To legalize the presence of Russian troops in order to legalize the presence of Russian aggression. What are our steps? Addressing is not enough. There are many references. We need action. We're talking to an international community. From words to words: not to recognize Russian passports issued to Ukrainian citizens on occupied Donbassa, not to legalize them, not to give them any visas – not Schengen, not any other, so that they can only go to the same place with this passport. That's where the passport and the place are. We demand decisive action from the international community, the cessation of Russian aggression and the legalization of Russian forces on Donbas. We will not vote in favour of this decree if there is a mention of the Minsk Accords and the need to execute them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u91	Thank you. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u92	Our team never recognized the legitimacy of the Minsk Accords, they were not supported by the Ukrainian Parliament. We propose a different form of negotiations with the Budapest Memorandum participants. And "no" to the treacherous Minsk treaties that actually legalize Russian aggression, separatists and special status for Donbas. We're against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u93	Thank you. I invite you to the presentation, now Berezuk, and then the Fatherland, the head of the Self-Help faction. Two minutes, Berezuk, then the Fatherland, then the will of the people. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u94	Stability and prosperity are where there is respect for man, and it has never been in Russia. And I'm going to ask the Ukrainian Security Service to check out the statement by the opposition bloc on the state's position. Dear colleagues, determination will do much to hear us. But she's not really going to do anything. I want to remind you of 2015, when Self-Help, for the first time, did not allow Parliament to cheat and implement the Minsk Agreements into our Constitution on the special status of Donbas. Today, Russian passports would be distributed in a special Donbas in the body of the Ukrainian State. That would be today! That's why it's still ahead. We will continue to be ambushed by these Minsk covenants. We have to stand. Not international fellowship will help us, they will support us when we stand clear and avoid fooling ourselves or deceiving ourselves. A clear distinction, a building of Ukrainian forces -- in the Ukrainian army, a powerful security zone, both in the east and in the security zone, signing military contracts with our neighbours Poles, Hungarians, Romanians, coastals with the same threat. Then they won't hand out their passports. And in time, when the strong Ukrainian economy is protected by the Ukrainian army and the Ukrainian people, we will be able to recover what today has brutally taken away the eternal enemy of Ukrainian states and Ukrainian people. In 2015, boys and girls, do you remember how close we were? But you and I stood up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u95	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u96	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u97	The Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian people stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u98	Thank you. From Fatherland, John Krulko is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u99	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. You know, it is in such decisions and statements from this rostrum that it is very good who is the representative of the government forces and who is the representative of this fifth column, who is the representative and the voice of the Kremlin. These decisions are very revealing. And you know, I'm surprised when in a situation of Russian aggression, and when Putin decides to issue passports to the Russian Federation in Ukraine, who's still trying to justify it? In fact, these passports are a continuation of aggression, that's a continuation of occupation, that's what the Russian regime did illegally in Crimea and Sevastopol, when it issued before the occupation of Crimea and Sevastopol Russian passports, and then legalized its annexation to Crimea by saying that Russian citizens live there. And that's a very good answer for all of our international partners, who unfortunately, without understanding the real situation, continue the ritual dances with the Kremlin. This is a good answer for all those who, even in today’s authorities, have continued to do business with Putin. And business in war is also a very good answer. And I would very much like to see the concrete actions of our diplomacy for such appeals. This is not an unusual situation. And it's a very clear demonstration that no Minsk covenants of Putin have been executed, executed, and not going to be carried out. And as long as Ukraine becomes an independent state, and it will be independent forever, it will muddle Putina. So it's a question that needs to be resolved, not from the point of view of "contractuals," but from the position of power and the only position of all those who want to defend democratic European values. And this is certainly an address to be accepted in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u100	Thank you, colleagues. And now it's a closing statement from the factions. Then Irina Heratchenko. It's Ribczynski of the People's Will, please. And I ask, colleagues, the heads of factions to invite everyone into the hall. The vote will take place in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u101	Eugene Ribczynski, Glossievsky district, the city of Kyiv I am very grateful to Oleg Valeriyovich for mentioning Adolf Hitler, who actually distributed his German passports in occupied areas. The same is true of the nation led by the Romans for 300 years, who were 90 percent Germans themselves. Here we need to understand such a thing, that if war is coming and we are being dealt with in a non-diplomatic way, we have to respond in the same way as non-diplomatic. I'm going to say, maybe not very popular things, but nevertheless. There is a Cuban, who is ethnically Ukrainian, who is partly Tumen, and there are so many Ukrainians in Moscow that we can't even imagine. Why don't we start handing out Ukrainian passports right in the center of Moscow? I want to look at the reaction of the Kremlin dwarf, let them feel the same way in Duma, to whom to turn from international organizations to prevent the handover of Ukrainian passports. Someone might think I'm joking right now -- no, it's not a joke, it says that the enemy thinks we're completely inactive and weak. We must take humanitarian action so that we do not simply resist but take parallel actions that are in keeping with our national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u102	Thank you. And, colleagues, in two minutes, the vote. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. Two minutes now, Irina Heratchenka. Everyone, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, you know, we've had some intense discussions with you in this session hall, and the writings have been set up on each other about whether the Minsk Agreements are a compromise, or whether there are those arrangements that have helped Ukraine do a few key things: the first is to stop a full-scale offensive; the second is to free part of our territories; the third is to give such an important pause for the Ukrainian army to grow muscles and teeth; the fourth is to free part of the hostages and in fact all of this we have been able to achieve. In this decision, a very important statement is made that the Russian Federation is to implement the Minsk Accords, because it is the Russian Federation that has violated them today because the Minsk Agreements recognize that Donetsk and Lugansk are part of Ukraine, and no Russia can hand out passports there. More importantly, it is the Minsk Treaty that is bound by sanctions against the Russian Federation, and it is said that now, colleagues, next month, in June, there will be another debate in the European Union on the longing of sanctions. There's a lot of lobbyists who want to take them down. We insist that sanctions can only be lifted after Ukraine has been transferred to our part of the border. This is the plan that allows us to establish peace step by step. Are the Minsk Accords Ideal? No, it's not. Of course not. Because they were signed into the most difficult conditions for Ukraine. But today we have to protect Ukraine and show all the parliaments of the world and the inter-parliamentary assembly that we will stand in defense of Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty. And now my colleague, Andri Parubay, will take the floor to sum up the discussion and compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u104	So, colleagues, I'd like everyone to come into the hall. You saw there weren't too many voices. Now I ask you to listen to me carefully. I ask everyone to unite around us so that we can gather all the voices. There was a warning from the Radical Party, there was a warning from Self-Help that in two places where the Minsk Accords were mentioned in the application, we replaced the words "international law" and "international agreements." It will be read as follows: "The RF, on the top of this, violating the sovereignty of the State and the territorial integrity of Ukraine, international law and international agreements." That's the first sentence. And the second sentence (you all have on the site): "and the Supreme Council of Ukraine strongly condemns the aggressive actions of the leadership of the Russian Federation, emphasizes the inadmissibility of moving away from international law and international agreements." You're in, right? So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs, your voice. And I want to point out that almost all the heads of factions have signed this bill. And I'm asking you to attach the signatures of all the heads of factions who didn't make it from the Radical Party and Self-Help to the common position of all factions, so there's no discussion. So, the apparatus, all the heads of factions before the vote, are numbered as co-authors. And I ask the same from Fatherland, please, John Krulko. [[B in m in s a l in]] And Olena Condratuk of Fatherland. All of you, please identify as co-authors, this will unite our hall. So let's go to the vote. And I'm betting on the vote. Colleagues, these are not the questions on which we can separate, these are the questions that unite. So I'm voting on the decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Council of Europe and their parliamentary assemblies, the European Parliament, the Inter-Parliamentary Union, parliaments and governments of the countries of the European Union, the United States of America and Canada, the diplomatic representations of foreign states in Ukraine on the criminal decision of the Russian Federation to issue Russian passports to Ukrainian citizens in the occupied Russian territory of Donbas with those rights that I read from the stand under the stenogram, in two places by removing the Minsk Accords, as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, every voice! Please be careful, responsibly. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing it up. Vote! Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:20:15]] For 230 Rule 10259 adopted. Comrades, welcome! Attention! Don't go. Stay where you are. There is now a request from the committee for us to include in the agenda of the day's session a draft Decision on Parliamentary Hearings on the topic "Contemporary state and current tasks of Ukraine's energy security policy" (10124). I ask you to vote and support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[17:21:02]] For 168 The breakup is too big. Colleagues, we're moving on. Then maybe we'll do it again. We are moving on to the next issue of the agenda: the draft Act amending Chapter XVII, "The Final and Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Electricity Market Act (8527, 8527-d). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Excuse me, colleagues. Asked for a break. Mr. Vladimir, can I ask you after that? I've already announced his consideration. After this question, I'll give it to you. Please, it's like this. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote. Next question is the fuel-energy complex block. Please support, we vote. [[17:22:08]] For a-117. Colleagues. I'm asking you to support a reduced procedure. This, as the committee explained to me, is a technical issue, just an amendment to the law. I'm asking you to support me, colleagues, for a cut, 8527. Support me. Vote in short, 8527. Please vote. Vote, colleagues, support. Please be supportive. [[17:22:41.]] For 116 Okay. Come on in, we'll shorten the performances easy. I invite you to report to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of the Twin Mikhail Dmitrovitch, please. I've already announced the beginning of the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u105	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable People's Deputies, the draft Law amending Chapter XVII "The Final and Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Power Market Act 8527-d. The bill proposes to continue the reorganization of organs that exercise energy control. It's a state inspection of electrical power stations, networks, and a state energy inspection of electricity consumption, heat. The restructuring period is foreseen for the Final and Transitional Positions of Ukraine's Electricity Market Act and was defined by July 2018. However, Ukraine’s state budget did not provide expenditure for this period, so we ask that we continue the restructuring period. The structure of the central executive body is now agreed upon. In addition, the Ministry of Finance has designated assimilations for formation. The adoption of this law will ensure the functioning of existing inspections prior to the beginning of the work of the Sustainable Authority as the central authority of the executive branch. The bill will be processed on the profile committee and accordingly recommended for adoption by registration number 8527-d. In view of the above, please support this bill, take it as a basis, and for the second reading, the bill will be finalized in part of the terms of the restructuring of the inspection by creating a central executive body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u106	Please turn on the microphone. Here's 10 minutes of the show, please don't break the rules. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the adoption of this bill will not affect the start of a new electricity market that should be launched on July 1, 2019. We also draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this bill will in no way affect the cost of electricity for consumers, the corresponding costs of maintaining the inspection will be redistributed in the middle of the NEK Krennergo tariff. The cost is only two thousandths of the annual electricity market. Today, both inspections work in one working day, although they continue to perform their functions to ensure the safe operation of electricity networks and systems. Ladies and gentlemen, we ask you once again to support this bill and to enable it to form a central executive body. Please postpone until September 30, 2019, which will allow for the establishment of a full-time schedule as well as budget allocations to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u108	Thank you very much. Stay, dear Mr. Twin, stay in the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a question to a distinguished reporter. Please, Yuri Lewchenko, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u109	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. Please tell me I'm now addressing you as a responsible energy officer. How do you personally appreciate the decision of the so-called Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, literally a few hours ago, which allowed for an even greater monopoly on one individual, namely the oligarch Ahmedov, in Ukraine’s energy market? Do you not think that there is a direct threat to the state, a direct danger to most Ukrainians in terms of their consumer rights as consumers? Do you not think that the State should intervene in this process, for example, by nationalizing an appropriate natural monopoly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u110	Thank you so much for asking. The Antimonopoly Committee is the central authority of the executive branch, and the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry is also the central authority of the executive branch. Well, to comment on the decision of the Antimonopoly Committee in the monopolistic position of one or the other. The subject of farming is, well, we'll see the result.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u111	Dear Mr. Yuri, well, you can see that the reporter is worried, and you're interrupting him. It's sacred. Please ask the following question from the national deputy Rybčina Alexia. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u112	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. I think it's an important bill and we need to support it. It's about the simple question of pay for people who are kind of monitoring our networks. Please tell me, if this bill is not adopted, what are the consequences? What will result from this decision of the Supreme Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u113	I would like to point out that, as of today, both inspections have been carried out manually. People continue to perform their functions, but they do not get paid for their work. Because there is no budget entry, the Ukrennergo tariff does not provide for maintenance costs. Of course, people work. This is the state of the workers who are the most qualified in the field of energy security. And there is clearly a need to resolve the issue of financing in order for them to continue to perform their functions. Still, it is the security of energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u114	Thank you. Colleagues, we still have a minute to ask. No more questions for the reporter? I understand you've run out of questions. Please, Your Honor, you may return to your workplace. And the word for the co-report is given to Mr. Alexander Dombrowski, the first deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy. No, please, this will be presented by Mr. Dombrovo's Alternative Bill. So we give you 10 minutes of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u115	Dear colleagues! There is a proposal to support this bill in the second reading and in general. Because the problem is very important to us. You realize that the number and quantity of problems that have accumulated in electricity is extremely important to us today. I'm not going to tell you what's going on with the tariffs today, with. What's happening with the tariffs that are happening today with the calculations and the water channels and the heat utility, and the state of our networks today. So, of course, it's critical that this institution, the central authority of executive power, work. I'd like to remind all of our colleagues that we're in the Power Market Act, which we adopted in the spring of the 16th year, predicting and obliging the central executive authorities to create this inspection. It was supposed to be created by June 11th last year. In fact, more than 600 people have been working there, and it has been hanging for over a year now. So it is clear to me that this law should be adopted in a second reading. It's clear to me that we need to get a 30 September paper because the bill says on March 31st, which has already passed. But at the same time, I'd like to go to the Ministry and, sorry, but it's critical enough to say that, my friends, the Supreme Council can't constantly pass on the laws that should have been implemented a year ago. Please, let's vote, let's move to September 30th, but let's make this the last deadline, because we can't create a central executive organ for over a year; we can't hang people, more than 600 people sitting without pay, and we can't leave a huge, complex field like electricity without control, without control and without solving the internal technical problems that we have today. So on behalf of the committee, I propose that we support the second reading and read "September 30." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u116	Please stay in the workplace. I'm sorry, Your Honor, I'd like to follow the Rules. I remind you that we are considering this law in full procedure, and the full-procedure report is 10 minutes. We have this very important issue, today we have so much discussion about the electricity market, and we will be very grateful if you are now comprehensively informing both the hall and our distinguished viewers, the audience that gives electricity consumers the adoption of the Transitional Positions Act of the Ukrainian Power Market Act. Please. You are one of the best experts in this room, and we ask for such a more thorough, detailed report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u117	If you don't mind, I'd like a few more. Mrs. Irina, may I have a few more positions?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u118	Yes, you have 10 minutes. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u119	Dear friends, I would like to emphasize once again that we are very often today in the electoral campaign that has taken place and in the process of a future parliamentary campaign, and today, by the way, in the hall we have heard the problem that we are going to protect consumers. Let's protect consumers in terms of the minimum price for energy resources, but on the other hand, we have to protect consumers in terms of the quality of the service we give them, and in terms of the quality of the electricity they consume. I think it's a little secret for us that basically the Ukrainian generating part and the system of high-voltage transmissions and bulkheads and distribution networks were built 30, 40, 50 years ago. This is because it is technically, morally, and physically already 70 percent, and sometimes 90 percent. This is a system that today cannot provide quality services to an ordinary Ukrainian citizen. And it's not because someone doesn't want to, but because this technology system, it needs to be retrofitted, it needs to be modernized, we need to start new smart technologies there, we need to create a new generation that is clean. But who, along with those who are on guard for the control and protection of consumer interests? Inspection. But when it's not made, when it doesn't have a payday, when people feel that no one cares about them every day, and they don't know what tomorrow will be like, why don't you explain to me how this system can work, how these people can protect the interests of ordinary citizens? So once again, I stress that they do not have the right of the central authority of the executive branch to implement the Ukrainian law adopted in the Ukrainian Parliament for so long. It's beyond understanding when for more than a year we can't create a central executive authority to protect Ukrainians in order to protect citizens who consume energy services. There is much to talk about tariffs, tariff policies, and consumer rights. So I'm asking you to focus. We need to vote on this law. We need an inspection to protect the interests of ordinary Ukrainians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u120	Thank you. Please stay in the workplace. Dear colleagues, our distinguished colleague, Dombrovski, saved the time of his presentation of the bill as well as the representative of the Ministry of Profiles. And so I suggest that we ask you now, not for three minutes, but as we have eight minutes left. Please sign up for Mr. Dombrowski. Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u121	Thank you. I'd like you to pass on the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u122	Please, sir. Of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u123	No, no, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u124	Uh, two minutes for you to ask? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u125	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I am now addressing a report on this issue in the context of this bill and in particular in the context of the previous one, which we have been looking at on a green tariff. Yeah? We are now looking at various laws that apply to energy in the country. But the reality is that we have essentially monopolized energy, especially thermal energy, monopolized by one oligarchus Ahmetov, who is a business partner of active power, a business partner of Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. The reporter told me that it is personal and Parliament does not apply in any way to the Antimonopoly Committee. But I remind you that we have the Antimonopoly Committee Act, which is article 9, "Head of the Antimonopoly Committee", and where it is written in white: The Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine is appointed to office and dismissed from office by the President of Ukraine under the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd be very interested to see how the reporter voted for Mr. Terentiev in favour of, against, abstaining. I can't pick up right now, because I honestly don't remember a particular day of this vote, it was a few years ago, but it would have been interesting to see how you voted. I can tell you exactly how your faction voted, the vast majority of your deputies voted in favour, so you are directly responsible for the actions of the Antimonopoly Committee. Why do I now mention it in the context of this bill? It's very simple. We can take as many technical bills as we can here as possible that seem to regulate something in energy, but as long as we have energy is captured, in fact, by a private monopoly that controls the natural monopoly, that's the worst thing that can be in an economic relationship when a natural monopoly is privately owned. So as long as we have private energy, in the private monopoly of Ahmtova, we have no real improvement for most Ukrainians, and this is a direct threat to strategically. a strategic threat to the country. So it would be better for the Supreme Council not to be involved in these technical bills, but rather to be involved in nationalizing energy-generating enterprises. Because natural monopolies can only be state property, they cannot under any circumstances be privately owned.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u126	Please comment, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u127	I think, as voted by some national MPs, each of our colleagues can go into the database and look at it and raise every vote. This does not require spending time, a precious time in the Ukrainian Parliament. But, at the same time, I would like to say, if we're talking about nationalization, I would like to remind everyone that we have an Association Agreement with the European Union, where there are mutual commitments between Ukraine and the European Union. I don't remember anything that was voted by the European Parliament, and by the Ukrainian Parliament, I don't remember that the Ukrainian Parliament or the Ukrainian authorities, or the Ukrainian people's deputies, took responsibility for nationalization or the energy sector or any other economic sector. If someone smells like 17 years in Ukraine, well, listen, there's a possible option, yes, but we remember very well how it ended. But I'm still my colleagues from.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u128	Please finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u129	From the "Freedom" MP group, to which I have great respect, I would like to call for a professional discussion. If this is about energy, please gather, let's have a professional discussion on energy issues on the committee. I mean, all my colleagues and committee members, we're always open to dialogue, for discussion, we're not closed. We're having very hot emotional discussions. Sometimes these discussions you feel here, in the hall, between the members of the committee. And despite perhaps some of their emotionality, I think that any professional, unpolluted, non-conjunctural debate is normal. That's why I'm calling on the whole Parliament to have a professional discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u130	Thank you. Please, the next question. Mrs. Vojtsiecka also gives Mr. Levchenk the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u131	Thank you. Well, let's try to consider this bill, given that it's openly prolonged, in fact, by the majority, because there's no one here, it's not going to vote, you know. You're telling me I'm busy. I'm not taking time really because I'm having a big debate that's been voted out, because most of your factions aren't in place, and you know that the bill isn't going to be voted out now, so you're going to delay until the next time. So let's try this professional discussion. Nationalization. You just said the 17th year. You're wondering whose property is the largest energy company in France, aren't you? Is it government property, or is it private? You asked. Is it only in France, does it have assets all over the world, or is it owned by the French State? It's about the 17th. In fact, energy-generating enterprises are owned by the state in many Western countries -- that's normal practice. As for the professional discussion, I'll let you know. We developed an expert bill two and a half years ago on the real nationalization of Britain, France, of energy-generating enterprises. Not some general Bolshevism -- "take it and share it," but professionally. For two and a half years, this bill is not published in a session hall for two and a half years. Are you calling me to a professional discussion?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u132	Thank you. Dear Mr. Levchenko, let me disagree with you, because we have heard the same thing in the hall for a month, that we are stretching the language law, and today we have shown the perfect vote under this law. And now we're going according to the Rules -- the full procedure according to which the reporter has 10 minutes to report. If he saves time, we can use it to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u133	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u134	You've been approached, that's great. And you don't use time, and Mr. Dombrowski doesn't use time, and we go according to the Rules and the law. And I'm asking for Mr. Dombrowski's answer, please. All right, I got it, I got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u135	Well, first of all, if there's a quality professional bill that's being drafted, that's sitting in Parliament or that's sitting in Parliament for many years, which concerns energy security or energy bloc issues, please, let's go back and discuss with you. And if that's the right law, the bill, let's do everything we can to get him into the debate room. I'll tell you the second topic, maybe it's not very popular, but more than 50 bills passed by the committee, which are extremely important, which relate to nuclear safety issues, which concern energy security issues, which relate to many aspects of energy issues in Ukraine, more than 50, they're no longer 1 and not even 2 years old, and some after 3-4 years are in this room. And it's not my fault that, unfortunately, the Ukrainian Parliament is not working in the most effective way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u136	Thank you. Please, the next question. National MP Rybchin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u137	Thank you. Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. Dear lady in charge, I will ask you the same question as the Ministry. If this law is not adopted today, and we see it this way, that the MPs already feel that way, and leave a little bit of silence, what will happen to those people who won't get paid on time, who are, in fact, watching the state of the networks that are worn out, who are still in the Soviet era, let's say they're going to be with these people, and how are we going to solve this situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u138	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u139	I can, I can only repeat what Mr. Deputy Minister said, that people who have no confidence that tomorrow is going to be: going to work or not going to work, they get a salary, they don't get a salary, they need a state or they don't need a state, it's a very serious problem. So from my point of view, what's been going on for a year is the solution. I agree with Mr. Lewchenk, and many others. The fact that the year has passed is a matter of a purely formal, technical nature, and the fact that the Supreme Council is constantly forced to return to it is insane. So that's my answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u140	Please finish, okay? We're done. Please, the next question is the National MP of Musai. The nation’s deputy Musai. National MP Musai, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u141	Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u142	National MP Barna, don't distract the National MP Musia from asking questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u143	Dear reporter, please tell me, what is the difference between a government bill and your bill because they are so similar? Was it not possible for one bill to be published and for this to be a harmonized position, it would seem that your government and you as a representative of the majority? And it turns out that from two sources, there are two different visions. Actually, it's time to go out with some kind of vision. What's the difference, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u144	I think there's no difference in principle; it's technical in dates. But, in large numbers, the bill passed by the committee that we recommend, I think the Ministry of Energy will support us to vote on it as a whole. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u145	Please give me a minute to answer to the government representative. Please. Please give the Ministry your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u146	Your Honor, thank you for asking. The Ministry fully supports this bill with the letter "d", 8527-d. He was worked on the committee and was based on it. The Ministry therefore supports the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u147	Thank you. And please, now. You. That's it, thank you. And one last question. Please, National Deputy Ivan Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u148	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, Alexander Georgievicz, you have to thank me, because you are, in fact, one of the committees where, really, so deeply, fundamentally, you can say, you're looking at these bills of yours, and that's very much. Thank you so much for being able to tell you clearly about any problem and all that. Of course, the question today is about this market in electricity, tariffs, calculations, and that is quite the case. Well, we need an inspection, control is all we've heard. And maybe your two bills are of course important, but the only thing that I'm interested in, and perhaps all of them, is, indeed, the fate of these people who are working today and today don't know what their future is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u149	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u150	I want to thank these people sincerely because they are people who, despite the problems that the state has created for them, are very conscientious and very quality in carrying out their duties. And they're very conscientiously and qualitatively protecting Ukrainian consumers in every village, in every district center, and in every city. And despite the problems that we could have solved a long time ago, these people go to work every day, these people respond every day to the problems, to the references that they have. And I think they have great respect and sincere respect. And they deserve us to vote on this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u151	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Dombrowski. You can go back to your workplace. Dear colleagues, we now have speeches under the Rules from MPs and factions. This will take three minutes. I'm asking everyone to sign up for two bills: both government and alternative MPs. Please, colleagues, please sign up. My colleagues, I take it your cards didn't work now. Please. I give the floor to Reverend Rybchin, who represents the position of the Fatherland faction. And the other factions, I ask them to sign up for the discussion. Please, Mr. Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u152	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction supported this bill. The decision was made at a faction meeting. We didn't support the electricity market bill, I can tell you that they were even judged for the reasons that it was adopted even in a non-regulatory way. But the fact is, we're in opposition, we can't influence this decision. And much more problems will begin when this market starts to work in a few months. But I just want to apologize to those people who are conscientiously doing their job, who are doing everything they can to make sure that our power grids are in a decent condition, that they're making sure that we have light here and in every home, and that they don't get the reward that they have. We'll do everything we can to get this technical issue resolved as soon as possible, and you get the reward you're counting on. Unfortunately, I see that now there is no potential to vote on these bills, but I hope that both the Presidium and all our colleagues will do their best. All that depends on them is to solve your question. The best thing we have in energy is our people working for this sector. Thank you very much and we apologize for the failure of the Supreme Council to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u153	From the People's Front faction, please, Sir Ivanchuk is invited to the floor. Your three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u154	My colleagues, before I give you my word to Ivanchuku, I want to give you a message. Look, we're in full reading. That means we don't have until the 6th. That's why we're going to do it honestly in front of the drafters: we're going to go through the faction block, and we're going to leave the MP block for the next Tuesday. And we'll continue next Tuesday. We've done this over and over and over again, it's perfectly normal for us not to lose the bill. So now we're going to be speaking out of factions, next Tuesday we're only starting with that law, we can't look at anything else. Let's leave the block to the MPs, take the floor, make the decisions, and move on. Is everyone okay? Because that's actually the way it's gonna be. And so now, from the factions, I ask you all to speak, we'll leave the block of MPs for the next week and, accordingly, the closing words. So we made a deal. And now Front, then BP, somebody's gonna come out of Self-Help. So from the People's Front, I invite you to the words of Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u155	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, our commitments to Ukraine under the Third Energy Package of the European Union. And let's see, from July 1st, the new electricity market has to work. The legislation that deals with all these issues is very much in store for the whole country. And our duty is to settle all these questions so that people can at least get a basic understanding of how the electricity market will work on July 1. The bill 8527 fully supports the position and the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, which Mikhail Dmitrovitch has spoken, and I also believe that we need to move in the logic proposed by Alexander Georgievich Dombrovski. So what the committee offered us, they're going to go out on a balanced basis before the second reading, and we need to move as fast as possible in the adoption of legislation that regulates the electricity market. Where would you go? In the districts, in different areas, all MPs are faced with only one question: what will happen next? That is why it is Parliament’s responsibility. Excuse me? Yeah. Therefore, it is the responsibility of Parliament, Mr. Head, to balance the legislation that regulates these issues, because all the economy, all the individuals, the citizens of Ukraine expect this decision from us. So I very much ask the committee, Mr. Dombrovsky, to take this into his own hands and to propose to the Ukrainian Parliament all necessary legislative changes in order for people to understand in advance how we are going to move on to a new electricity market legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u156	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, I invite you to the word of Olenna Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u157	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Colleagues, you know, we're going after the same robberies again. Look, there are no deputies in this room. It's not your problem, Andrey Volodymyrovich, that they're not in the hall. It's not my problem, it's not the other deputies left in the room. We're trying to save a bill to get someone to work on time. It seems to me that this story is totally unacceptable. I'm reminding you that we have a few regulations that we need to put in place to confirm and unlock the signing of the bills. Now because we're going to go to Tuesday to consider this bill, tomorrow we're not going to be able to make these decisions for confirmation. That's right. Bills waiting for their signature. And you'll see that the Opposition Block will also make its own decision to block the Language Act. And we want to sign it as soon as possible. So I don't support the idea that there are no deputies today, and we have to delay the consideration of the bill. They don't, they don't vote -- their problems, let them solve their factions, why they don't have deputies. And I think we should vote today. And tomorrow we'll have a more important challenge, you'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u158	Mrs. Olena, I'll give you an answer right away. I have studied the subject specifically. We have a special session on Friday, especially when we vote in favour of the President, and we will be able to vote tomorrow. That's not an obstacle. As Mrs. Oksana well says, we should all have good intentions and good will. To overthrow a bill is easier than that, but it's also not good intention and good will. And so, colleagues, I think it's going to be completely within the limits that we're going to pass this bill on to Tuesday. Tomorrow at a special session, we will consider the bill, and next Tuesday we will continue the bill. And, colleagues, a closing statement from the factions. From Peter Dustenk's Block. "Peter Prashenka's Block" is a closing statement. Dombrovsky, please make a closing statement from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u159	Ladies and gentlemen. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I would very much like to take seriously the subject and the bill that we are discussing right now, because it's not just a problem, let's say, one central executive body, it's a key issue for the whole electricity sector. I want to remind everyone that since January 1, 2019, we have entered into force a fragmented electricity market. And unfortunately, the challenges that we have with the increase in debt at the start of a fragmented electricity market are enormous. I would like to remind you that, according to our law, we have a supplier of "last hope," by which decision of the Cabinet of Ministers defined "Ukriinterenergo," who made these commitments without a source of funding. This is true today of the debt of water canals. This is true today of the debts of the thermal power plant. This is true today of the debts of other fiscal institutions and utilities that increase debt. Another problem that we should also talk about with you, regardless of the number of national MPs that are in the hall today, that, according to our law, since July 1, 2019, we should have a wholesale electricity market launched. And that's a huge problem, because to this day the system is not ready to start the wholesale market. And I would like to remind you that we are now in the Fuel and Energy Committee, creating a separate working group that deals with debt issues that are in the electricity market. And I'd like to give you a number so that we can understand the value of this problem in a direct and figurative sense. That's over 30 billion dollars! This is more than 1 billion euros, which today are heavy weights. And there's another problem. And what we need to change to the Power Market Act by 1st, Andry Volodymyrovich, July, to make it painless, so that it doesn't fall on the shoulders of our Ukrainian citizens. In order not to collapse in the energy market, but also in terms of economic policy and industrial policy of the state. So, dear friends, the question that we're considering today, the bill, it's technical on one side. But on the other hand, it's a very important element of trust, of security for the entire power system of Ukraine, and it's a key tool for protecting consumers' rights. Because the key criterion, I emphasize, is the key criterion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u160	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u161	The key criterion for protecting the rights of any consumer – whether European or Ukrainian – is the right to receive, continuously receiving, reliable, high-quality electricity. And it's this law that allows this institution to solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m1.u162	Thank you. So I believe and I believe that next Tuesday we will be able to accept it. Now we're going to finish our work. The next Tuesday is a block of speech from the national MPs, your closing statement and your vote. Now he wants to read the statement that came from Krivenk. A statement that he is. "Please count my vote in favour, Decree 10259 condemning the issuing of passports by the Russian Federation in occupied territories." The guilty party is supporting her. And I read it publicly. But 18 years. The time for our work is, unfortunately, exhausted, although we could still have many laws, of course, passed. And I can say, today, colleagues, a great day. Hello, everyone, to that day! Welcome to all those who have voted in favor of the Language Law, all the national MPs! I think we've given great impetus to our entire Ukrainian society on the Great Clean Thursday. Thank you all. And at this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm waiting for everyone in the hall to resume our work. Thank you. Good-bye. See you tomorrow.
