ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Good morning again, everyone. Dear national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, good morning again! National deputies, please take your seats and prepare for registration. Please prepare to register. Are you ready for your registration? Please register. [[10:04:40]] A total of 378 Ukrainian national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our fellow national deputies, Constantine Anatolyevich Bondarev. [[Applause]] Vassil Ivanovich Germany. [[Applause]] Hello! I want strength and success in the work that we will do. According to part three of article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on Friday, we have a time of up to 30 minutes to announce parliamentary inquiries. I would like the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyyovich, to announce a parliamentary request.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, there have been questions from Ukrainian national deputies: Ruslan Gorbenk to the President of Ukraine on the formation of a tariff for the distribution of electricity in the Luhansk region. When considering the requests to the President of Ukraine, first of all, there is no less than one third of the votes voted in favour of the request and then at least 226 votes in favour of the President. We're putting it to a vote. Dear colleagues, there is a roll call for Ruslan Gorbenk's request to the President of Ukraine for a tariff on electricity distribution in the Luhansk region. Please vote. [[10:06:28]] For 255 Thank you. And now the same request must be voted on by at least 226 votes to send to the President of Ukraine. Please support and vote. [[10:06:51]] For 305 Thank you. Decision taken. Next request by National Deputy Michael Bondar to the head of the Government of the Public Stock Exchange Society "The State Savings Bank of Ukraine" for the continuation of the function of the Division of the Territorial Separated Unbalanced Division No.10013/011 of Corchin Philia - Lviv District Administration of the Public Shareholder Society "Savedbink". We don't vote on that? That's not a vote, is it? Next. National Deputy Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv District State Administration on the question of moving the M-06 Kyiv-Chop out of the area and improving the safety and comfort of pedestrian movement in the village of the city-type Demands of the Kamyanka-Buzki district of Lviv Region. People's MP Sergey Ljovczyn's request to Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase the debt problem of payout. Request from the national deputy of Dmitr Lubinz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the repair of the road to the general use of the local value of T-05-12 Volnovah - Boykovsky. The request of the National Deputy of Dmitr Lubinz to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the certification of the acquired qualifications, educational outcomes and periods of training of persons who have studied in higher education institutions located in temporarily occupied areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. Request for National Deputy Alexander Tkachenka to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Health, Health and Health Insurance, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, the Odessa District Public Administration on the application of effective measures to prevent the closure of the offices of the municipal non-commercial enterprise, the Danube District Hospital. Requesting Marine Bardina's National Deputy to head the National Police of Ukraine for a bullet wound to the guard of the Botanic cafe in Poltava. Requesting National Deputy Marina Bardina's head of the National Police of Ukraine to investigate the alleged rape of a driver of BlaBlaKaru. Request for a national deputy of Ruslan Gorbenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the National Commission for State regulation in the fields of energy and utilities, the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine for the reduction of electricity tariffs in the Luhansk region. The request of the National Deputy Valerius Koluch to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy and Use, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the rightfulness of obtaining permits by the Society with limited responsibility for the development of the Tarasius Heritage of the sands of the Circon-Rutille-Lilmenite in the territory of the Voddar region, which could lead to catastrophic environmental consequences in the Kyiv region. Request for the National Deputy Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an additional amount of medical subsidies for the budget of the city of Volodymira-Volinski. Requesting National Deputy Igor Goose to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Defence Minister for the completion of the construction of a 44-family residence for military personnel in Volodymiri Wallinsk. The request of National Deputy Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for urgent funding for immediate measures to prevent the emergence of an extraordinary technological situation in connection with the sinking of the state-owned coal mines. The request of national deputy Julia Yooffe to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the need to protect the constitutional rights of citizens, an immediate solution to the question of the appointment and holding of the first elections in the unified territorial communities of the Lugansk region. Request for a group of national deputies (Kivi, Rabinovich and others) A total of 19 deputies) to the Chief of Investigations of the National Police of Ukraine for the immediate completion of the judicial investigation concerning Ukrainian citizen Sergio Sternenka and the transfer of criminal conduct to court. Request for the National Deputy Alexander Bakumov to the Kharkiv City Head for the construction and repair of the road network of the Kharkov District of Kharkov. Request for the National Deputy Alexander Bakumov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Director-General of the Ucroborprom State Concert, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the provision of adequate financial and organizational support to the Kharkiv Construction Bureau for the machine-building of the name Alexander Aleksandrovitch Morozov. The request of National Deputy Alexander Fedienka to the head of the National Tax Service of Ukraine for the results of an experimental project on the registration and operation of new models of software complexes and/or software and technology complexes for the registration of accounting transactions. Request for amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers from 5 June 2019 No. 430. People's Vladimir Aresonkov's request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-remuneration of the pay fund for teaching staff in education. Request for urgent measures from the current medium repair of the road of general use of the state value T-16-27 "KPT Serpneve" - Tarutine - Arciz - Sarata" "km 39+918-km 57+510". The request of the People's Deputy Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for measures to respond to the negative processes that are taking place in the winery and wine market of Ukraine. Request for additional funds of educational and medical subsidies for the timely payment of salaries to teachers and medical staff in the city of Ivano-Frankivska. The request by the National Deputies of Oksana Savchuk and Zinovija Andrivovich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, for co-financing the construction of the bridge across the Bistrica Solovinska River and the transport solution in the street area. Chemical is a year old in the city of Ivano-Frankiv. People's MP Alexy Zmerenecki to the Minister for the Development of Communities and Territories for the installation of gas heat generators in Slavuta’s multi-story buildings. Requesting National Deputy Alexy Zmerenecki to head the government of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, the Minister for the Development of Communities and Territories of Ukraine for the debts of a private company for natural gas consumed. The request of the National Deputy Anastasia Lashenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the head of the Polish Association of Shareholders for the restoration of electricity supply in volumes and capacity that were used before the reconstruction of the power grids in the region of Poltava. People's deputy Stephen Kubov's request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for urgent approval of the heads of the Ukrainian Joint Inter-Governmental Commissions on Cooperation. Requesting Ukrainian Secretary of State for Defence for failure by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for the purpose of Ukraine's Strategic Defense Bulletin. Request for a group of national deputies (Andriyovich, Prosczek and others) Only 9 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the capital repair of road S090901. Request for funding in the Ukrainian State budget for the year 2020 by road for the general use of the national value of N-30 Vasilyvka-Brdjansk. People's Deputy Alexander Ponomarov's request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding in the State Budget for 2020 to take action to prevent an extraordinary situation on a self-driving sewage collection and power pipeline in the city of Berdjansk, Zaporez. Enquiry of National Deputies Alexander Tkachenk and John Shinkarenko to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, National Police of Ukraine, State Bureau of Investigation, Security Service of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs, National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights, General Prosecutor's Office on the need to verify the possible misuse of property of a public organization. Request for a request by national deputy Igor Kisilov to the Head of the High Council of Justice, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for a review of the appeal of a citizen of Romechuk. People's deputies Artem Dubnov and Paul Frolov asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine about some of the issues of subway construction in Trieste in Kiev. The request of National Deputy Vadim Novinski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General, for the cessation of a campaign organized by the past with the discrediting of the Canonical Ukrainian Orthodox Church, the persecution of its priests and believers. People's MP Mikoli Kucher's request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the issue of halting the violation of citizens' rights – domestic consumers of gas distribution systems operators, recalculating debt and restoring gas consumers to the shortest possible time before the start of the heating season. Request for information on the list of state companies and banks where independent supervisory boards have been established, their personal composition, the size of the remuneration of independent members of the supervisory boards and their relationship to the actual results of their activities in 2017-2019. U.S. Deputy Larissa Bilozoz's request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Community and Territory Development of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine regarding the need for a comprehensive review of the collective appeal of representatives of the Tomaspilla Rural Community of the Tomaspilla Region of the Winnitsk Region regarding the granting of a stable subsidy for the implementation of the budget in 2019. A request from National Deputy Larissa Bilozer to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive response to the collective appeal of students at the Third Faculty of Pharmacy at the National Medical University of O.O. Bogomolca on the right to education. People's MP Sergey Labazuk's request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the need to continue the reform of decentralization in Ukraine. People's MP Sergey Labazuk's request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for issues that need to be addressed for the effective development of the territorial communities and for the continuation of decentralization reform. Request by National Deputy Maria Mezentsevsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the state of pretrial investigation in criminal proceedings No.4201722000000204 of 13 March 2017 on the basis of the crime envisaged. 2 p.m. 365 and 2 p.m. 375 Criminal Code of Ukraine. Request for an immediate repair of the R-14 road to Prime Minister Irina Konstankević by connecting Luck-Kiwerci-Manewichi-Loubešev-Dolsk. Request for the National Deputy Irina Konstankević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the construction of a public education school in the village of Baslika in the Kivertsi district of Volin region. There were no more requests from the national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u3	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The report was very interesting. According to part three of article 25 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Friday from 13 to 14 p.m., there is time for speeches by national deputies on various issues. I offer to move an hour of speeches from different questions after the day’s work is completed so as not to waste time. If there is no objection, I suggest we move on to work. None. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the agenda. You have been given a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. Please support and vote! [[10:19:40]] For 240 Against 0, hold on to 42. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u4	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, a draft Parliamentary Ordinance amending the calendar plan for the holding of the second session, which was approved at the first session of the People's Deputies, members of our committee. With regard to the adoption on September 10 and 11, by Parliament of a series of bills defined by the President as urgent, on the basis of and with the approval of decisions to shorten their deadlines for preparation by the Main Committees for second reading, the Committee decided at its meeting yesterday (Protocol No. 5) to make a corresponding draft of the Regulations amending the calendar plan for the holding of the second session. I'm not going to go into detail about all these changes that are being proposed, because they're in the materials that are being distributed to you. So please support this decision and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u5	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Is there a need for discussion? Yeah. Sign up: two in, two in, two in factions. The Rocksolan Andriyevn sub-class, the "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u6	Please give the word to Fedor Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u7	Feder Venislavsky, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the Order for Change is proposed. the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth vocation is based on the need for adequate, fast adoption of those bills, which have been defined by the President of Ukraine as urgent, for that purpose and is proposed to make these changes. Therefore, we invite our honourable colleagues to support this decision and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u9	Thank you. The word is given to Nina Petrovna Jujanini, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, I beg Irina Heratchenko to pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u11	I'm sorry. Heroceno.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, in general, our political power welcomes the speedy pace that Parliament has taken to consider drafts, but we would like to welcome even more the fact that the hall is gradually returning to the professional approach of reviewing bills. And I want to remind you that key work happens on committees. Now you and I have adopted dozens of drafts in the first reading that need very careful consideration on factions and committee amendments to make them perfect for the second reading. In addition, half the session hall is made up of our fellow majors. In our political power it is both Mikhailo Bondar and Alexei Honcharenko, in other factions there are many more majors, and it is clear that our colleagues are already eager to work, to open up their admissions to the districts, to report and to the electorate on what has been going on these weeks of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And actually, the work in the districts, it's very important in the context of doing our parliamentary tasks in the same way. We don't always think speed is a quality. Consider one very important factor in voting yesterday when, because the decision was not taken, as originally discussed on the basis, and in general, it was possible to legislate another Soviet rule from one bill on what. about Crimea again and again. Note how wise it was, how important it was for the committee and then for the session hall. And so, my friends, we urge that we leave the calendar plan unchanged, and I think we'll be grateful to all majors. Similarly, we will work well on the committees on amendments, and we will return to the sessional work after we have something to issue – harmonized bills of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u13	Thank you. Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u14	Thank you. Please pass the word to Galina Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u15	Galini Vasilchenko, Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, please note that we voted in favour of the schedule, which will allow us to work for the next six months. At the very least, half of this room is representatives who have gone through majorities and have planned appropriate measures, meetings with voters, representatives of OTG and many other things to help our voters in major districts. [[Applause]] Now you're depriving us of that right. And first of all, I want to go to the dominant faction and remind you that there are also half of those who have gone to major districts. Please think about what people will then say to you in places. In addition, let us not forget that this will be a very important period for introducing rights to the draft budget, which also needs to be worked on in detail and with balance. So I very much ask you not to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u17	Thank you. The next word is given to the national deputy Irina Miroslavni Konstankević. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u18	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u19	Dear National Deputies! I want to express the position of the Group for the Future, which is made up of major MPs, and in general we represent over 3.5 million voters of Ukraine. Our position is unequivocally against us being deprived of the opportunity to listen to, communicate with, and finally to discuss the urgent problems that exist in Ukrainians. This week, all the scheduled meetings in the districts. These meetings have already been published in the newspaper, and these meetings have been informed. For the time being, we will look before our electorate as those who do not know or know how to work. I am very much asking Parliament to listen to the Future Group and realize that the rules of the game cannot be changed during the game itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u20	"The Opposition Platform for Life," for reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, really some strange, strange wonders are happening in us. Can't we get organized for normal work? I realize it's finally come to pass that it takes seven days to make a full change, that is to say, to wait. But this does not mean stopping the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On Monday, committees can gather to prepare laws for the first reading. On Tuesday we can work out laws, accept or reject the first reading. I'm only asking for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u22	Nestor Ivanovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u23	Accept or reject. And we have this impression, and I'm sorry that the paint in the green printer has ended. Dear colleagues, I ask you to organize yourself better and be responsible to our voters who are waiting for their deputies in the major districts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u24	The motive is Kornienko. If that's the position, we don't change the order of the day. Rules, more faithfully, our work next week? Are we leaving what was? Shahov Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u25	Sergey Shahov, Luganshina, Majority District 114. Dmitri Alexandrovich, we're not just asking, we're asking today not to change the Rules for next week. Today Lugansk is not only suffering from war, the war goes on inside where tanks don't go, where they don't go "grass" and "bucque." Today, there is no water on the border with Russia, no medicine, no food. Lysichan four years without water. Who are the ears of today’s officials who have entrusted the Sukhov People’s Deputy with speaking here in parliament? Today, miners in the Mountain Mine are sitting practically under water and under water and under the ground, because it was flooded today by Firstwater Coal. Who will answer that question? In Reuben, the mayor was released, and the city is not ready for the hot season. Nor does the governor decide today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u26	Thank you, Sergei. If so, we must determine, and. Then, dear fellows, let us turn to question and vote in favour. Please be determined then. Please identify and vote. [[10:30:22]] For-29 Against 87, holding - 207. The decision is not taken. [[Applause]] Let's get to it. Let's move on to the day-to-day issues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, silence in the hall, please. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please be quiet in the hall. You've been handed over a bill amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on Anti-Corruption. We need to vote on the inclusion in the order of the day. Please support and vote. [[10:31:22]] For 282 Against 10, holding 42. We need to support the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. It takes 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[10:31:50]] For 255 Against - 7, held - 71. Decision taken. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[10:32:13]] For 253 Against - 6, held - 80. Decision taken. The representative of the President of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich, is given the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u27	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The bill, submitted by registration number 1010, was introduced by the President of Ukraine in the order of article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which was defined as urgent. This bill aims to continue the systematic actions of the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian President's team on anti-corruption. The main purpose of this bill is to bring Ukraine's Anti-Corruption Act into line with the UN Convention against Corruption. That is, providing reliable legal protection for corrupters. So in the fight against corruption, it's precisely the activity of those citizens who want to fight corruption and want to expose these corrupts at different levels. In order for those who want to do so to have adequate legal protection, it is proposed that changes be made to a wide range of laws in Ukraine. This is about the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. To the Civil Code, to the Code of Labour Laws, to the Civil Procedural Code, to the Criminal Code, to the Code of Administrative Offences, to the Code of Administrative Justice. The novelty of this bill is that it is proposed to move on to the practice of advanced European countries and to foresee the possibility of a material reward for those who expose corrupters. Material rewards are predicted when it comes to wealth, amounts that are more than 5,000 times higher than the untaxed minimum income of citizens, or half a million dollars at large. Discoverers will receive 10 percent, but not more than 300 untaxed minimum citizens’ income. Therefore, we ask this bill of the President to support and vote on the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u28	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Anticorruption Policy of the Krasnosil Anastasia Olegni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u29	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Anti-Corruption Policy has considered a law on the protection of exhibitors with the number 1010 and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine approve the bill on a basis. Why do we need a new Law on the Protection of Offenders, colleagues? Because worldwide information from discoverers is one of the three most effective ways to obtain information about and prosecute corruption. What situation do we have in Ukraine? In 2018 more than 2,000 reports of possible corruption were received by NAZK (U.S.A. You know what they did to those messages, colleagues? Nothing. They hardly checked them. At the same time, colleagues, in 90 percent of the authorities, there are no channels for reporting corruption at all, there are no channels for messages from detectors at all. Next up, colleagues. If, in reporting corruption, the discoverer is subject to violations of his labour rights, goes to court and demands protection, only one in ten can obtain such protection under valid legislation, colleagues. Such a situation leads to detection or failure to report, or it never becomes the material of a criminal case, and we never bring corrupters to justice. Such a situation must end. This is what the Law of 1010 proposes. First. Establish an effective mechanism for reporting corruption and testing information from detectors. Implement effective safeguards for the protection of labour rights of disciplinarians. Finally, to encourage the discoverers if their information allows them to receive indictments in corruption cases. All the revisions we'll be able to look at for the second reading. So I'm very much asking the House to support this bill as a basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u30	Thank you, Anastasia Olegna. Dear colleagues, I'm asking a little quieter because there's a lot of noise in the hall. Ivanna Orestovna! I'm asking you to sign up for two-for-two-against factions. Seminian Oleg Valeriyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u31	Seminian Oleg, 205 District, "Slut of the People", Chernigjishte. Please pass the word to Oleni Frashenec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u32	Olena Fraschenec, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u33	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! I'm asking you to support the Law of 1010. We have been very active in discussing it and will continue to discuss it. This is very important because corruption is recognized by the Ukrainian community as one of the most important and urgent problems to be solved. And the punishment of those who carry out this corruption is one of the solutions to the situation that has arisen today. Much gratitude to our colleagues in the previous parliament for making a major, so to speak, anti-corruption breakthrough by creating a system of effective anti-corruption bodies. But our task now is to continue this work and make this system more effective. Our international partners, our consultants, public organizations support the further effective development of anti-corruption bodies. And it's a very big request to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u34	Sumar Victoria Petrovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u35	Thank you, Mr. Head, dear colleagues. So this bill, on the one hand, really corresponds to the UN Convention on the Prevention of Corruption and introduces into Ukrainian legislation the notion of "discoverers of corruption". What are you talking about? The point is that a person can report any crimes that he knows about, or corruption, or corruption. Such crimes can be, for example, a conflict of interest. This applies both to officials and to those in positions of local self - government and to persons associated with them, that is, to millions of people. What happens next. A person writes a message to the appropriate legal authorities. How these reports should be written, how, who is responsible, is clearly not regulated. She can write it anonymously or she can write it explicitly. Then, from the moment of this message, a tool for protecting the rights of a corruption discoverer is introduced. That is, this person and all of his loved ones are obliged to take them to work, and they are obliged to be promoted. But the most interesting point is that all of these rights come into force from the moment of the message without proof that the message of corruption will be confirmed and that you have not been slandered simply or simply. Because it's enough for a person to just have the belief that he's right. Where am I going with this? The intentions are, indeed, very good. This tool, it works in many countries and is good. But this bill needs to be carefully and seriously worked out. So that he doesn't become a tool: (a) corruption in the law enforcement agencies themselves, which in this way can merge information to get 10 percent of the real estate that you then, by proving that it was legal, no one will be able to return it, and so that it doesn't become a recording tool. That's why we're working on this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u36	Let me finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u37	In order for good intentions not to become an even more corrupt breadwinner and a practical raider in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u38	Thank you. Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u39	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. In the walls of the Supreme Council, we're used to talking about the corruption of the lopsided side only on the side of the corrupter. But today we're going to talk about people who seem to expose corruption and the Law of 1010 sets a new term for "discoverer." So the discoverer is the person who reports the fact of a corruption crime. I'm not going to repeat what my colleagues from other factions said, but I'm just going to point out your attention to the next one. The main purpose of the bill, I quote, is "the establishment of rights, safeguards and mechanisms for the protection of detectors." However, the bill itself does not contain a clear list of mechanisms for protecting the discoverer. Moreover, for reasons unknown to us, the law sets a lower limit on damage to the reward. Yes, if you have discovered a crime worth more than 10 million dollars, you have the right to receive a reward of up to 10 percent, if less, there is no reward at all. Yes, we insist that the percentage of the reward be fixed without setting the minimum amount of corruption. Also, the established pattern of encouragement in the form of the reward of the discoverers will lead to a willful distribution of false information. In Europe, in the United States, informational practices are very common, and English is Whistleblowers. But it's just people who work in law enforcement, work undercover, and expose corruption schemes. It would not be desirable for the Law of 1010 to be called by the people not by the law of whistleblowers. I would very much like this law to be called the law of whistleblowers, not the law of whistleblowers. There's also another moment, this is a state secret. Because the Law of 1010 does not specify how the State secret will be distributed. We can all mention the conflict in Defense and how it's going to be for people who know that corruption has to be the city.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u40	Let me finish -- 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u41	In Defense, but they can't report it. So given everything I've said, the "Fatherland" faction will support this law in the first reading, but we insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u42	Thank you. Kiva Ilya Volodymyrovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, I mean, this is my personal opinion and the opinion of our entire political party, "The Opposition Platform for Life," regarding the Law of 1010. In general, what is happening to our society? Yes, corrupt people should be punished, but not by the destruction of society. The adoption of this law is actually the creation of a sex institution. That's right. The morals of our society will be eliminated. Remember, my friends, that from reporting to betraying the Motherland is one step. He gave up the neighbor today and gave up the Fatherland tomorrow. Our society today is not ready for such measures, although this practice is generally accepted in Europe. But we've been brought up differently, my friends, we have a completely different mentality. Finally, there are law enforcement agencies that are needed to deal with the corruption that is needed to expose criminals. Do not ruin our society. That's it, I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u44	Thank you. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović. I said Jurczin Jaroslav Romanovich, the Voice faction, for reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u45	Yeah, in the last sentence, you didn't just hear the last word, "Don't destroy society," let the corrupts steal quietly. Colleagues, 95 Quarters is resting, really. Colleagues, this is a very necessary bill. As a country, we don't actually protect people like Larissa Golnik, who discovered corruption in the Poltava court, or Hanna Solomatina, who exposed corruption in the NAZC, who was supposed to fight corruption. If this law had been, when they had given a witness, things would have been concluded. Colleagues, we need to be on the ground. We need to work out an article on State secrets. But the mechanism is necessary. Thanks to the initiators, we need backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u46	Thank you. Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, MP for the Future, and then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u47	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! It's kind of funny to talk about, actually, it's not very funny, because it's very important to society, and it's very resonant. We've examined this bill carefully, and I'll tell you that there are a lot of questions about this bill. First, we essentially encourage people to go back in time, like Stalin, when there are hundreds of reports of each other, someone doesn't like the manager, someone doesn't like who he's working with. You can write a hundred anonymous reports, and no one will understand, because by law, the person who wrote it will be replaced by a name, there will be a witness protection, and no one knows who wrote the report on you and what that report is about. And you go and prove it whether or not it was. The other one. What we're seeing today, we've only been with you in the last week, you've made decisions that give you the right to listen, observe, order and so forth to NAB, DBR, the Attorney General's Office, BSB, IMF. Tell me, what more organs are there to keep an eye on all the officials, the country's largest top-corruption operatives? You need all the authority you can get if you want.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u48	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u49	There are all sorts of ways to track and solve all sorts of corruption crimes, especially the highest. But corruption around the world is not so, it's not the purpose of anonymity, it's the purpose of impossibility. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u50	No, well, Victor Vasilovich under the Rules, well, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's go to the vote. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the first reading on the basis of the draft Law (registration number) 1010 amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on Anti-Corruption. Please support and vote. [[10:48:42]] For 283 Against 20, holding 49. Show by factions: "The Servant of the People" – 242, "The Opposition Platform - For Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 16, "For the Future" – 0, "The Voice" – 19, "the non-fractional – 6. Thank you. Decision taken. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for the second reading of the bill (registration number 1010). Please support and vote. [[10:49:29]] For 246 Against 32, holding - 66. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been handed over a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to ensure openness and transparency in the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We need to vote on the inclusion of this bill in the agenda of the daily plenary session. Please support and vote. [[10:50:07]] For 280 Against 0, hold on to 63. Decision taken. We need to apply the ad hoc procedure for the consideration and decision-making of this issue in plenary. Please support and vote. [[10:50:33]] For 252 Against - 3, holding - 82. Decision taken. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[10:50:56]] For the 250. Against - 3, holding - 90. Decision taken. Here is the question: a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure openness and transparency in the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration numbers 1036, 1036-1 alternative). The report is given by Florov Paul Valeriyovich, a national deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u51	Good day, dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! The bill provides for the publication of full texts of parliamentary requests on the Supreme Council website, as well as all the answers to those requests, and for the cessation of the practice of dealing with parliamentary requests, which unfortunately was in the past when the value of a single request came to up to $3,000. This bill does not deal with the reduction or limitation of the number of parliamentary requests, there remain two parliamentary requests throughout the calendar. The plenary week. In addition, the bill foresees the placement of legislation on the Supreme Council website, and this procedure will be considered an official publication of these laws. In Ukraine now 70 percent of the population is constantly entering the Internet, and that's why the publication of laws in the Voice of Ukraine, which is the circulation of 60,000 copies, and millions of Ukrainians who can constantly watch the law on the website, is a step, again, towards digitizing our country. In addition, the bill provides for the introduction of the Law on the Status of People's Deputies in accordance with the Law on Prevention of Corruption, namely the declaration of assets and the cost of national deputies by not providing a copy of the declaration to the Supreme Council's Office of Personnel, but by filing an e-Declaration on the NAMC website. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u52	Thank you. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Marcenko Ludmila Ivanovni on the alternative bill 1036-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u53	Good afternoon. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. The draft alternative Law 1036-1 proposes amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, including the full edition. in a new edition, part three of article 25, on taking time to inform the chairman of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the number of parliamentary requests made and the decision to support and send parliamentary requests to the President of Ukraine accordingly, providing for this in the duties of the presiding officer (para. 14). ( For fully formatted text, see In article 32, the word "declaration of parliamentary requests" is replaced by the word "information on the number of parliamentary requests made." Paragraph 9 of part three of article 55 provides that the text of parliamentary inquiries (the current norm is the announced text of parliamentary inquiries) is added to the verbatim bulletin of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Article 139, part one, provides for certain provisions regarding the placement of laws and publications signed by the President of Ukraine. Article 224 deals with the announcement of parliamentary requests, the placement of parliamentary requests, and so forth. And accordingly, article 225 is to exclude it at all. The amendments are also proposed to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, in particular to part four of article 15, to provide that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to send parliamentary requests to the President of Ukraine by a majority of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in article 25, that the Ukrainian People's Deputy in the Formation of Work and then annually during the execution of its powers, but no later than April 1, undertakes to submit a declaration to the person authorized to perform the functions of the civil servant, the National Anti-Corruption Agency. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u54	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u55	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the committee considered both bills, both original 1036 and 1036-1. In fact, considering that, unlike Bill 1036, the alternative draft provides for changes in the duties of the chairman of the plenary to report on the number of requests made and specific days for such information, as well as the proposals, recommendations of the Chief Scientific and Expert Management, the Committee adopted the conclusions and decided to recommend to Parliament the adoption of an alternative bill 1036-1 as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u56	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Please sign up for factions: two in, two in. Sergey Valeriyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u57	Please pass the word to Frolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u58	Frolov Paul Valeriyovich, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u59	An important addition to this law. Today, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk has been reading parliamentary queries for 20 minutes, reading the names of these requests. The bill provides for an end to the practice of reading and spending plenary time reading these requests. On Friday alone, the number of requests will be announced, and all requests will be published, appendix texts will be published on the Supreme Council’s website, and all the answers will be published. In the same way, parliamentary requests will become less lobbyist, and they will be more targeted to protect the interests of society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u60	Thank you. The word is given to Nastavajchenka Valentina Alexandrovich, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u61	Good morning. Please pass the word to Andrey Puziyczuk of "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u62	Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u63	Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Head, Your Honor, the Fatherland faction fully supports the openness of the Supreme Council. Citizens have the right to receive information about the activities of parliamentarians who are delegated to the legislative authority of the people as the sovereign authority. But the question is, does this bill give voters that right? No, this bill takes away this right from people, it takes away the possibility of being protected, including through a parliamentary request mechanism. The electorate needs to know about the activities of each of you. Instead, the bill proposes to nullify the MP’s request, to underestimate its legislative weight, and to make it similar to a parliamentary appeal. The Fatherland faction is taking a firm stand against this. We're every other session, we're looking at plenary meetings, we're looking at attempts to limit MP's powers. Regarding the posting of information on the Supreme Council website, we support this initiative, but with the publication of the Voice of Ukraine and the News of the Supreme Council. How is it possible to preserve the authenticity of the bill and the law that has been passed? How can people living in villages who do not have access to the Internet get to know each other? Not all cities have a proper Internet, 40 percent of the country without the Internet. This is especially true of older ones. Did you even think about people when you were drafting this bill? The Fatherland faction won't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u64	Thank you. Frez Irina Vasilovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u65	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u66	Victoria Petrovna Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u67	Thank you. Clearly, the bill contains enough positive things that allow for the removal of retrograde standards, such as reading requests. At the same time, colleagues, there is the possibility that laws can be published on websites, not in the Voice of Ukraine. Well, God sees and sees my colleagues, that in my previous summons, I was just doing my job to keep the Voice of Ukraine open. And so that all legislative acts are published electronically. But let's prepare an appropriate bill that says what specific acts on which specific website of which authority should be published and who is responsible. Because now what's written with a pen, it's known that you're not going to take out the axe. Forgive me for the Russian saying here, from this rosy Ukrainian rostrum. But if you do it on the site and the information disappears, and no one will take responsibility for it, it's not good. This is the first moment. Well, second point. The MP's limit is to have two requests per month. You know, you're going to be approached by hundreds of people. They will send you letters with their problems. This is not even true of the majors who receive these hundreds. You have one tool to solve these problems: to re-direct those requests to the executive authorities responsible for them and to get answers. Yes, these answers need to be published. However, leaving a member of such an instrument as a request is definitely not possible. You're cutting yourself off. Please let us rule this in principle as a positive bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u68	Tetjana Mikhailovna's crying, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u69	Good afternoon! Please pass on the word of Natalia Adjective.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u70	Comedian Natalia, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u71	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, dear fellows! This bill is a continuation of chaotic, non-systemic changes to the Rules. "The opposition platform for life" opposes such changes and such conduct with the basic law of Parliament's life. There's a great initiative in these walls to develop once a new Rules, once. And don't take the time of the national MPs or the Ukrainians. The Ukrainians are really expecting others to act on us and other adopted laws. These are certainly not endless changes to the Rules. In 14 days of Parliament’s work, 20 draft amendments to the Rules were registered. I don't think that's the main thing that's bothering our Ukrainians. "The Opposition Platform for Life" will oppose the maintenance of the draft law and the alternative 1036-1. And once again, we would like to stress the need to develop a new Rules. Please join all the MPs, the MPs, the non-fractional national MPs in order to make systematic, well-founded changes that would in no way limit the national MPs in their legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u72	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u73	Colleagues, after the authorities have announced the state of smartphones, it's important for us not only to have officials in this smartphone, but also voters from the village, the hamsters, who now have no prospects because of the lack of roads and the lack of infrastructure. Because today we see that Parliament is slowly becoming an archaic and parliamentary activity that narrows down to the lack of public parliamentary activity itself. I want to make your point that we can't go completely into the state of smartphones right now. So it seems to me that such a notion as the proclamation of parliamentary inquiries is appropriate and appropriate at this stage because every electorate in the village and town to a small one looks at us and hears us, and this is an integral part of our public activity. And one more important question. Please, half a minute. I didn't understand the majority's concerns about the practice of dealing with parliamentary inquiries. Who did you mean? We're not members of the Supreme Council for a single MP's call. Show me, prove it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u74	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u75	The MP's question was about the electorate of our constituency. 99 percent, no sales. So do not cast a shadow on the worthy members of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u76	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (Registration No. 1036-1) amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the openness and transparency of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please. Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:06:01]] For 244 Against 27, holding 76. Decision taken. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for the second reading of the bill (registration No. 1036-1). Please support and vote. [[11:06:35]] For 244 Against 29, holding 63. Decision taken. By procedure, Heratschenko Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u77	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, now on the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is one of the Kremlin’s political prisoners, released recently, for which we thank once again all those involved in the liberation. But. Vladimir Baluch. [[Applause]] We ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to announce this and invite Volodya to the session room. Friends, and thank you all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You have been given a draft Decision to terminate the term of office of the entire Central Electoral Commission (registration number 2127). Let's go to Project Review Order 2127 on the permanent termination of the terms of office of the entire Central Electoral Commission. According to paragraph 21 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine concerning the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the discharge of the members of the Central Electoral Commission shall be granted by the President of Ukraine. According to article 31 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission, the authorization of the entire commission may be suspended for a period of time by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the reasoned submission of the President of Ukraine. Ukrainian President Vladimir Aleksandrovich Zelenski submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for discharge as members of the Central Electoral Commission on September 11. According to part four of article 20 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, this issue is included in the agenda without a vote. In accordance with article 31 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I am voting on the proposal to discuss the draft Decree (Registration No. 2127) on the permanent termination of the terms of office of the entire Central Election Commission under the reduced procedure. People's deputies, please vote and support. [[11:09:33]] For 298 Against 36, holding four. The representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to present the selected submission. By factions, please show me. Ruslan Alexiyovich, one minute. "Serve of the People" – 241, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 27, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 10, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 71. Ruslan Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u79	Thank you. Your Honour, Mr. Head, my fellow officers! In 2018, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appointed the Central Electoral Commission, which provided, inter alia, the organization of the preparation and holding of the presidential election of Ukraine and the successive election of Ukraine’s national deputies in 2019. In accordance with article 2 of the Central Electoral Commission Act, the designated college body ensures compliance with the principles and principles of the electoral process provided for by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the implementation of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens, the same application of the electoral legislation throughout Ukraine. At the same time, despite partly positive evaluations by international institutions regarding the activities of the current CLTC, its functioning was accompanied by a series of ambiguous decisions and actions. Yes, during the early parliamentary elections of 2019, the CEC has repeatedly shown political bias in dealing with individual issues. As a result, a number of lawsuits have resulted in decisions, actions, or omissions of the CLTC being declared illegal by the court. In particular, courts have been found to be illegal and dozens of CBC rulings have been annulled. The court’s decision was motivated by the fact that the Central Election Commission did not take all possible steps to exercise the electoral rights of citizens. You can see it in more detail in the President of Ukraine's statement, specifically on which matters have been decided. In addition, without sufficient legal grounds, CEC has made an unprecedented decision to cancel the registration of a candidate for a national MP, which was subsequently revoked by a court. The prejudice of the CLTC in this regard is also confirmed by the fact that the Commission has adopted a very different approach when considering similar issues. There have also been cases of failure by the CEC to execute a judicial decision that has gained legal force and was subject to mandatory and unconditional execution. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 21, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the appointment and discharge of members of the CLTC at the request of the President is part of Parliament's mandate. According to the first article 31 with the 1st Act on the Central Election Commission, the authorization of the entire composition of the CLTC may be suspended for a period of time by the Supreme Council for the motivated submission of the President of Ukraine. In view of this, the head of State has submitted an appropriate submission to Parliament for its consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u80	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u81	Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u82	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Public Authority and Local Self - Rule, Regional Development, and the construction of Aline Leonidivna Zagorujko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u83	Good afternoon! First of all, it is a pleasure to see the full - time work hall and the hardworking Supreme Council on Friday. And now, essentially. Honorary Presidium, Honorary Colleagues, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitra Razumkova, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Organization of State Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development at its meeting on 11 September 2019, discussed the submission by President Vladimir Greene of the President of Ukraine on the release of members of the Central Electoral Commission, which envisions the permanent suspension of all its membership. In this document, the Head of State notes a number of circumstances related to the functioning of today’s Central Election Commission, which indicate a lack of balance or even political bias in the resolution of individual issues that were part of its mandate. There are also specific examples of unbiasedness, political engagement, incoherence, mixed law enforcement practices, illegal acts and inactions recognized by dozens of court proceedings during the election of Ukraine’s national deputies in 2019. In considering the above-mentioned submission in the context of the constitutional powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine, as well as the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Electoral Commission, the Committee notes that it corresponds to article 85, paragraph 21, of the Constitution of Ukraine, which defines the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the sole subject of the exemption from the post of members of the Central Electoral Commission, as well as article 31, with footnote 1 of the CWC Act, which provides for the possibility of a permanent suspension of the full membership of the Commission by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the request of the President of Ukraine. Taking into account the above circumstances, listening to information from the subcommittee on elections, referendums, and other forms of direct democracy, find out the position of the national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u84	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u85	The committee approved the recommendation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 85, paragraph 21, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 31, with footnote 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Electoral Commission, and, having regard to the reasoned submission of the President, to suspend, on a timely basis, the discharge of the entire composition of the Central Electoral Commission. But in this regard, free yourself from it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u86	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u87	However, in this connection, to relieve the members of this commission: Basalai's Alla Valentine's Day, Bernack Natalya Ilarionovna, Verbensky's Michael Georgievic, Didenko Oleg Mikolaiovich, Eustigenye's Andrija Sergiyovitch, Efraem's Irina Alexiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u88	Let me make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u89	Yellow Olga Mikolayevna, Connopolski Oleg Mikolayovich, Kustov Svetlana Mikolayevna, Lotjuk Olga Stepanyovna, Deleteka Katerina Grigorovna, Plukar Vitalija Volodymirovich, Radchenka Evgenija Volodymyrovich, Slepacuk Tetjan Volodymyrovna, Šipilova Leontija Mikolayovič, Suzkov Tetjana Leonidivna – adopted the appropriate draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the timely cessation of the full membership of the Central Electoral Commission. Please support the President's reasoned submission and the committee's draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u90	Thank you. Please sign up for the factions and groups. Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, it's been so good to see that I'm a member of the subcommittee, of the election. our committee on state building, and we've been looking at the President's submission on the subcommittee. We've identified such a point that the Supreme Council, especially the committee, cannot assess the degree of motivation. But the information provided in the data is comprehensive to understand that this is indeed a misplaced submission by the President of Ukraine. And indeed, the Central Election Commission during the last election campaign demonstrated certain procedural violations, failed to execute court decisions, carried them out one way or another, and so forth. So on the part of our faction, we ask that we support the President's application to simultaneously release and vote in favour of all members of the CLTC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u92	Thank you. The word is Zinkevich Jani Vadimovni, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u93	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u94	Arthur Gerasimov. Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u95	Dear Ukrainians! The Central Election Commission should be a professional, equidistant institution from all political powers. That's why in this Central Electoral Commission that they want to release today, representatives of all political forces -- both coalitions and opposition. And that's why the Central Election Commission is chosen for seven years, so it doesn't have to be cash and it doesn't depend on it. Next, the elections that took place in 2019, which were recognised by the OSCE, PARJE, by all international organizations, and the mistrust of the Central Election Commission by Vladimir Zelensky and the "Services of the People" speak only of the fact that you consider the elections to be illegal, because I recall that in 2004 the CTC was released for total forgeries in the elections. Next. Whenever such a political settlement is made and it is otherwise called impossible, members of the CLTC are invited and the CLTC is given the floor to the head of the CLTC so that it can state the facts. It's not even done. And what I'd also like to say is this is a very simple thing: against this decision comes the Resistance, the G7 speaks out. And you know, I'd like to go to the People's Servant faction, the lawyers, the "People's Servant" faction, and you read everything, and you understand everything, vote on your professional. Your professional honor and knowledge. I'd like to go to those who fought corruption, anti-corruption officials from the "Serial of the People" faction: you've always fought corruption, don't you see how many corrupt tools there are in these laws? Vote based on your conscience. I'd like to go to business representatives who are very much in the "Serial of the People" faction: don't you have intuition that something is wrong? And finally, I'd like to turn to everyone who's patriots in this room, because I think that in this room all the patriots, almost all the patriots of Ukraine: don't vote for these decisions, because they are the ones who are destroying our powerful great state, destroying our Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u96	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u97	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! On August 6th, our political power made a statement demanding the resignation of the entire Central Electoral Commission. We are consistent, and we will certainly do as we have done with us today. No complaint was taken on the basis of a vote in Donbassy by the Central Election Commission. They wrote letters to us. And we're going to send them one letter right now -- a decree on their total resignation. By letters, that's how we're going to copy letters. On the other hand, the very principle of forming this Central Electoral Commission violated the principle of proportional representation of all political forces in Parliament. We demand that the next Central Election Commission be formed on the principle of justice, even regardless of who is voting or voting in favour of the resignation of the Central Electoral Commission today. You know, there's probably going to be an act of justice today, an act of justice against the rights of our citizens, when, in order to win, district election committees were moved at night, they were sent to the district commission by representatives of one company, and three leaders were immediately appointed, just to confirm the falsified results. That's why we're saying today: let's see this composition of the CICA and welcome the new fair composition of the Central Electoral Commission in order to protect the rights of our citizens to choose power and to be the main authority bearer, as determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u98	Wasilenko Lesia Volodymyrna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u99	Please pass the word to Sergey Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u100	Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to begin by asking the head of the Central Electoral Commission to come to the hall. [[Applause]] It seems to me that it would be appropriate, just as it is for us to address such complex issues as, for example, the reduction of the members of the Supreme Court, it would be logical to listen to the Head of the Supreme Court. I don’t think you’re all such experts, that you’re so well aware of the things you’re solving. And now, essentially. He was meeting a diplomat yesterday, and he says that foreigners still don't want to invest in Ukraine because Ukraine is unstable. I strongly deny that we are a very stable country. We always have stability, we have all the presidents who say they're not interested in power -- they come and they start to concentrate power. We've had all the presidents, starting in 1991, say they're interested in the rules, not the people, come and change not the rules, but the people. No one's interested in the Law on the Central Election Commission, but on the basis that we're going to call things our names, we're completely changing the body, which, I emphasize, is marked by 7 years of caenction and 300 votes just to ensure that the organ's gravity is ensured, so that it survives not only the President and the Supreme Council, but that it provides the process. And the last moment. We have stability in the country because the presidents are changing, and there's always a guy around every president who thinks he's grabbed God's beard and knows how to do politics. For those of you who are in politics recently, I am telling. We have a political cemetery full of guys in Ukraine who grabbed God's beard. Let them visit him, and they'll find out a lot of interesting things for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u102	Thank you. Is the discussion over? All of them speaking, who wanted to? Let's move on to making a decision. I'm drawing your attention. Dear colleagues, ask for a job. [[B in m in s a l in]] Alona Ivanovna Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u103	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, you know, we've been doing very badly for the last 28 years to rebuild institutions with trust in society, in parliament, in Ukrainians and in foreign partners. In fact, institutions are the only thing that can hold the state. But if they are not trusted, they need to be reloaded, it is, unfortunately, such a story. CBC, I remember well how it formed, and I remember playing with a number of CBC members — 15, 17, as long as it took. Unfortunately, for today, there is no trust in this C.V.C.I., to my mind, in society. The first round of parliamentary elections, and the first round of presidential elections, and parliamentary elections, and specific cases, which we see now, according to the rulings of the courts that cancel or return the decision of the CBC. I'd really like you and I to learn to look a little bit deeper, and not just reload the boards on the doors, not just reloading people, but talking a little bit more about reforming the institutions themselves, the organs themselves. Guys, we really need a new law on CBC. You'll be surprised, for example, but the new CVA Act is a few years away.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u104	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u105	It's not brought into conformity with the State Service Act and it contradicts the State Service Act. Let's talk about major institutional reforms, not just re-loading personnel in these institutions. And let's re-establish trust institutions, this is our only chance with you really. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u106	Thank you. From the faction there was a performance. No, I'm sorry. Let's go to the vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that according to part two of article 31 of the prime. Ukraine's Central Election Commission Act decides to suspend the term of office by dismissing the entire membership of the commission by the Supreme Council no less than two thirds of the constitutional composition. That is, no less than 300 votes are needed by the Ukrainian national deputies. According to article 85, paragraph 21, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 31, paragraph 1, of the first article. The Ukrainian Central Election Commission Act puts the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 2127) to an end to the full membership of the Central Electoral Commission. People's deputies, please prepare. Please support and vote. [[11:27:34]] For 341 Against 41, holding on to 2. The decision is taken in general. [[Applause]] Draft Decree (Registration No. 2127) was adopted as a whole. Let's move on to the next question of order. Show the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 244, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 33, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 20, "For the Future" – 15, "Voice" – 0, non-fractional – 29. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been handed over a bill amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules on the Planning and Systematicity of the Legislative Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We need to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the plenary. Please support and vote. [[11:28:45]] For 253 Against - 15, holding - 62. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to apply the ad hoc procedure to the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[11:29:14]] For 259. Against - 6, holding - 65. Decision taken. I would like to consider the above-mentioned issue in a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[11:29:36]] For 257 Against - 5, holding - 68. Decision taken. The report is given by Florov Paul Valeriyovich to the Ukrainian national deputy on Bill 1042.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, this bill is designed to stop Parliament's work from being chaotic and to become a system and a plan. It is anticipated that the Supreme Council's legislative work plan will be approved by the Supreme Council itself, at the request of the Supreme Council Committees. In this regard, it will not be a mere list of anything these bills have told us about. A problem will be identified. They will be responsible. The deadlines will be set. Bills will be given priority. We even have some. There are no laws that are provided for by the Constitution. That's not supposed to happen. So I ask you to support this bill, which will, in turn, give the work of the Supreme Council systemicism, planning. And the quality of the laws will be higher. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u108	Thank you. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Marcenko Ludmila Ivanovni concerning the alternative bill 1042-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, the draft alternative law 1042-1 is proposed to be supplemented by an article, new article 19-1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, which proposes to increase the role of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's legislative work plan, which, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committees are no fewer than once a year reporting on the status of implementation of the plan and agree on the authority of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the authority of the deputy factions and groups on the draft billing plan by amending articles 73 and 78 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is also proposed to provide for the right of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to submit to the Supreme Council concerning the establishment of advisory, advisory and other subsidiary bodies of the Supreme Council within the limits of the funds of the Supreme Council, which give effect simultaneously to changes to the Constitution of Ukraine on this matter. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u110	Thank you, Sophia Ivanovna. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u111	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee considered both bills, both the first 1042 and the alternative 1042-1. And considering that, unlike the original bill, alternatively, the provisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committees Act are taken into account to a greater extent as to what the committee is responsible and accountable to Parliament, which the committee reports on its work. Given that the alternative project proposes to reconcile the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Conciliation Board of Deputies and the groups on the project plan. With regard to the draft draft billing plan, and taking into account that the alternative project had more consideration for the comments made in the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Committee had decided to recommend to Parliament that it consider and accept as a basis and, in general, alternative bill 1042-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u112	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear people's deputies, please be a little quieter. Arthur Volodymyrovich, if you please, a little quieter, you are very welcome to hear from our colleagues as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u113	Not always. I suggest you sign two in, two in front of the factions. Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u114	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u115	Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u116	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Can I have your attention, please? I would like, after such a shameful decision that we have just made, to have the courage to thank the members of the Central Electoral Commission, who for several months have properly carried out their professional work and responsibility to ensure the organization and conduct of the most honest elections of the President and Parliament. Thank them for the job!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u117	Ruslan Petrovich, I rule it out, you're not speaking on topic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u118	In fact, it's a bill. This bill really surprised me. Frankly, we had a serious discussion here during the consideration of Bill 1028 on amending the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular with regard to granting the Supreme Council additional powers to create advisory, advisory and auxiliary bodies. We were then convinced that this must be the norm of the Constitution, for all parliamentary powers must be clearly defined in the Constitution and cannot be defined in any way by law. Parliament takes the appropriate decisions, includes the agenda, sends them to the Constitutional Court. And then there's a bill that proposes to reproduce these rules already in law, contrary to that bill that we sent to the Constitutional Court. Moreover, if the bill is not known when it enters into force, it will enter into force immediately after it has been published. Friends, he is, in your opinion, and according to the position of the President, one that is in grave contradiction to the Constitution of Ukraine. So I ask him to take it off the table, return to work and stop assuming such shameful things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u119	Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, faction of Fatherland. Oh, I'm sorry. Lashenko Anastasia Alexiyevna, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u120	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please pass the word to Paul Frow.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u121	Paul Valeriovich Frolov, "Serial of the People" faction. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u122	I want to answer to the previous speaker. Well, that totally, absolutely doesn't fit what he said. There's an alternative prime in the bill. 1 It is envisaged that the creation, the right of the Supreme Council to create subsidiary advisory bodies will become effective only after amendments to the Constitution have been made. This is the first time. It's different. This bill is designed to introduce planning into the work of the Supreme Council. There are now about 800 laws in the Ukrainian legislative field, but the quality of these laws and efficiency can be appreciated by every Ukrainian citizen. More specifically, they are completely inefficient and ineffective. For laws to become quality, they need to be systematically reviewed. We have a lot of laws. These laws need to be redesigned and made to work for the benefit of citizens, not for the benefit of politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u123	Thank you. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u124	Thank you, Mr. Head. It's an absolutely awesome title for the bill: planning and system-wide lawmaking. I just have a question. So we're going to work systematically, like we've been working these two weeks? This is how we're going to work systematically, how we've worked these two weeks on the committees? When no one knows what's going on in the daytime. When no one knows when there will be meetings and so on and so on and so on and so on. That's the systemicity. That's the first one. The other one. Colleagues, you know, you either have to call back the changes to the Constitution, or you have to take this law off the table. Because with one hand we increase the number of advisory bodies, and with the other hand we reduce the authority of the Conciliation Board. I want to remind everyone that it's called the Conciliation Council. Because she agrees with the issue of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, just like an advisory body. And indeed, according to the Rules, the agenda is formed by the submission of committees, but it agrees with the Conciliation Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Instead of expanding the channels for communication between parliamentary factions, between parliamentary groups, between individual MPs, we're just folding these points for communication. We're reducing the amount of time to discuss, we're reducing the possibility of amendments, we're reducing the possibility of a legislative initiative for MPs, we're taking away the opportunity to ask MPs, we're reducing the opportunity to speak to faction leaders at the conciliatory councils by reducing the number of issues they can solve on this Conciliation Council, including the agenda and the legislative work plan? So let's call all of this not by Parliament from the word parler, not travailler. And let's call it something else. Let's call it, I don't know, something else, I don't want to say how, because then you'll get offended. So, dear colleagues, you really don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u125	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u126	You don't have to reduce the possibility of communication, you don't have to reduce the possibility of exchanging the ideas that we need to consider. And as for systems and planning, if it's real systemicity and real planning, of course we'll support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u127	Thank you. Rudik Kira Alexanderovna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u128	I give the word Sosun Inni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u129	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! The bill, which is now proposed, is called upon to organize and systematize work in Parliament. This goal is, of course, very right and high. But together with what I want to pay attention to, first of all, friends, the system of legislative activity is ensured by the system of thinking, the system of understanding problems, the system of systems. an effective ability to hear the discussion and hear different positions. Unfortunately, this is not what this parliament has been boasting about in the last two weeks. That's why I'd like to, colleagues, that's why I'd like to think very much about what should be the effective approach to ensuring the systematic work of Parliament? Not to approve any plan that is unknown, what will be its status, and what we will then do. The bill does not answer the question of what will happen to bills that have not entered into the plan. Does this mean that those bills that did not enter into the plan would not then be considered? Is that not the case in which people’s deputies are deprived of the right to their own legislative initiative? Or we say that these bills will be considered by Parliament. But in that case, what's the status, and what's the purpose of this plan, if we include any legislative initiatives that are further created by Parliament? I'm going to repeat and emphasize, my friends, the system of legislative activity comes out of the system of thinking. Let's think first, discuss and understand problems, and after that, think about how and what laws we're going to propose and what bills we're going to vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u131	Thank you. Did all those who wanted to speak? All of them. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Everyone has spoken, Arthur Volodymyrovich, and pros and cons, everyone has expressed their position, everyone who wants to. Therefore, since the discussion is over, I propose that we prepare ourselves and proceed to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (registration number 1042-1) amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules on Planning and Systemic Legislative Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, are we all ready to vote? I'll bet on the vote, please vote and vote. [[11:42:45.]] For 248 Against 34, holding on to 45. Decision taken. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for the second reading of the bill (registration number 1042/1). Please show the last faction vote. Let's go to the vote. Please prepare, please vote and support. [[11:43:31]] For 240 Against 33, holding 38. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been handed over a bill of recognition that has become invalid, the Ukrainian Act on Listing Property Rights Objects That Are Not Privatized. We need to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the day plenary session of this bill (registration number 1054, 1054-1, 1054-2), the last two alternatives. Please support and vote. [[11:44:18]] For 269 Against - 1, holding - 49. Decision taken. I propose to vote in order to address the issue of ad hoc procedure and to take a decision at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[11:44:48]] For 260 Against 0, hold on to 52. Decision taken. I would like to take a brief look at the procedure, please support and vote. [[11:45:08]] For 267 Against - 1, holding - 51. Decision taken. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Natalusi Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u132	Dear Head, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, my compliments. Look, very quickly, because in fact, this bill provides for the exclusion of only one norm. In fact, article 4 of the Privatization Act contains a comprehensive list and criteria for objects that are not subject to privatization. Such objects, there, are more than 40 points in different fields and industries. In particular, public gas distribution networks, such as seaports, hydrotechnological buildings, airports, airports, waterfronts, and so forth. But on the other hand, we have a list of property rights that are not subject to privatization, which was approved in 99th year. And from the time of the 99th year to the present day, there are objects that are now being eliminated, but yet they are in it that are currently holding back investment activities for the development of the public sector. And when we talk about we need to invest more in Ukraine's economy, we need to first open up the opportunity to corporateize and privatize some inefficient state-owned enterprises. That's what we're talking about. This is only about bringing legislation to the rules of the Constitution. Our opponents can tell us, wait, is article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which refers to the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in paragraph 36. But what I'd like to say is that this norm doesn't conflict, because it's discreet and it's dissuasive. In 99th year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine fulfilled these powers, and in the same way that we cancel this list today, we are in no way in violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thanks, guys.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u133	Thank you. For the report on the alternative bill, 1054-1 is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Podlasi Roxolani Andriyovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, alternative bill 1054-1 also proposes to cancel the list of banned enterprises. These are more than a thousand objects. You know very well that the Privatization Act contains criteria that determine that it does not have to be privatized on a functional basis: automobiles, gas transport systems, metropolitans, and much more. This means that strategic infrastructure will not be privatized. 1054-1 also adds new criteria to article 4 of the Privatization Act: no enterprises will be privatized for the manufacture and repair of all weapons in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. We're not going to let you take businesses that are previously banned from debt privatization because 1054-1 introduces a moratorium on bankruptcy for 3 years on all objects that are listed today. But large-scale privatization has to take place -- it's a government vision and it's a vision of the drafters. The privatisation of small objects in the "Prosor-sales" public auction system brought only one year and a half billion dollars to the state. This is 30 times higher than the sales of similar objects in 2015. The list of objects banned for privatization is 90 percent full of small objects. There is no reason why the State acts. Can I finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u135	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u136	There is no reason why an act of the highest legal power protects the Irish herd of herbivorous fish and such other businesses. So all the really strategic enterprises that perform important functions for the state will be protected by a separate government decision. Therefore, I would like to support the repeal of the prohibitions of privatization at the level of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u137	Thank you. The word is given to Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich, faction of "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u138	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Metro, power plants, nuclear stations, hydropower stations, dams, this is the pump stations, the South and all the enterprises that do space, gas distribution networks, our GTS, seaports, airports. And this is just a partial list of what is under ban and in the list of objects that are not allowed to be privatized. Colleagues, you know that if we cancel this list, I don't know who's advising the President, we're selling our state anyway. And whoever advises this to the President is definitely working against you, against Ukrainian citizens, against Ukraine's national interests. Colleagues, in today’s world, enterprise itself is a major tool for overcoming global crises. Only the Global Future rating, which has been shown since 2006 for 2014, has increased the share of state-owned companies, shows this: from 8 percent to 23. And global economies believe that a powerful public sector can be the leader of investment in science and technology. You can't just cancel this law and this list, there was no state, there was no Ukrainian people getting anything from this privatization, and this is the loss of jobs, and it's the creation of more violent monopolies. And I want to say that this is definitely going to be an easy prey for different oligarchs and financial institutions. Colleagues, we propose the following in our bill. We're a little privatized, we're here to postpone this bill by January 1st and oblige the government to bring us with you a list of strategic objects that will not be allowed to privatize today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u139	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u140	Anything else, please, as a small privatization, we will be able to support the growth of the economy and the formation of the foundation of our economic society.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u141	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u142	Colleagues, I beg you to reconsider. Legally incorrect simply cancel, let us defer and oblige the government to provide us with a list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u143	Member of the Committee on Economic Development, Kitsak Bogdan Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u144	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on 11 September 2019 reviewed draft laws of Ukraine: recognition of the loss of validity, the Act of Ukraine on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized (1054) and two alternatives (1054-1 and 1054-2). Let me give you a brief analysis guide so that we can understand what is going on. Thus, Bill 1054 is proposed and its purpose is to involve domestic and foreign investment in Ukraine’s economy, to increase its productivity, to create new effective jobs, to eliminate the ambiguity of legislation in the area of privatization of state property through the prohibition of privatization as separate criteria for public property. The alternative bill 1054-1 is proposed. That is, it is similar, but individual standards are added substantially. It is proposed that the property rights of the state in the temporarily occupied territories should not be privatized to the full restoration of the constitutional system of Ukraine in the temporarily occupied territories, the conduct of bankruptcy cases of property rights that are included in the lists approved by the Ukrainian Law on Lists of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, be terminated, except for those that are disposed of by the owner’s decision. The second alternative bill, 1054-2, is actually similar, it only introduces a rule on the limitation of the validity of this law until 1 January 2020. And what the previous reporter says is that the unthinkable privatization is being initiated is not a reality, because all of these issues are regulated by other legislative acts. As a result of the discussion, Ukrainian national deputies decided to submit bills (registration 1054, 1054-1, 1054-2) to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and recommend them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u145	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u146	To recommend the results of the first reading of the Ukrainian law on recognition of such as has become invalid, the Ukrainian law on the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization (1054-1) should be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u147	Thank you. The word is given to the first Deputy Minister for Economic Development, Kuchti Pavel Andryovich. Paul Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u148	Dear Head, honourable deputies! Objects protected from privatization, objects of truly critical infrastructure that really need to be protected, preserved in public property. The full list, with forty paragraphs, is very detailed, as set out in article 4, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State and Municipal Property. This completely protects all critical infrastructures that we really need, from privatization. This list is simply a list of enterprises banned from privatization, which was once based on a list of these objects. So we're not at any risk of privatizing anything critical: the nuclear reactor, the runway, the port's water supply will not go into privatization. There's no problem. Please be very supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u149	Thank you. Please sign up for factions: two for, two for, two for, one for. Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, the Voice faction. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u150	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, at last this day has come when we can finally take away our nation from that burden, for which very many politicians have actually gone to power to manage state-owned enterprises, to put their people, and then from this rostrum, or from other screens, to tell us that we can't sell the state, it's very important, it's this colossus that is a strategic enterprise and so on. I want to confirm once again what was said by the speakers. We already have a separate law, it works. Some of you even co-authored this law, which defines what is a strategic enterprise that cannot be sold. And most importantly, what kind of sales procedure. Now this list that we're eliminating, it's rudimentary. It's the limit that our economy can't move on. And I very much ask you not to listen to populistic speeches, but to study the bill, study the law, believe the government that many of you have chosen, believe in this initiative, and finally free our economy from this burden. Only strategic enterprises should remain in the state, and all others should be sold in transparent procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u152	Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u153	Your Honor, Head, Your Honor, Your Honor! You know, when we're talking about privatization, talking about slogans and politics, it always works really well, and it's fashionable. There are two approaches: there is an economy and there is relevance, there is a question of law and there is a question of law. We were on the committee, really, talking professionally about the subject. The vote was, almost half on the need not to rush, but to make changes in certain rules, because if you mix politics and economics, you get a recipe that no noble fish and fishers are never the same. When we talk about the alternative project 1054-1 and 1054 is the same bill, there are the same authors. And the second important question. On the committee, we discussed two approaches. If we want to adopt this bill, it can only be supported in the first reading. Why? Since article 85, paragraph 36, of the Constitution, part five of article 4 of the Privatization Act provides for the Supreme Council to submit the Cabinet of Ministers. Let's change the rules, and we can't now support the change of the Constitution by 226 votes. I understand that 1999 is a long time ago. But no one says that in 2018 we defined the rights of military-directed enterprises that cannot be privatized. They're all 138. 40 have been determined. And let's see what happens to 3 thousand 444? It's a little privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u154	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u155	A little privatization, which was organized when I was a minister, showed 300 percent of the effectiveness of the direction. Let us also make great privatization, which must be defined by rules and legislation. I'd like to ask, fellow honourable Members, when we talk about the budget, when we talk about the economy, when we talk about jobs, there has to be economic relevance and law. Then it'll be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u156	Stepan Ivanovich, I'm sorry. Stepan Ivanovich, I'm sorry, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u157	Last sentence. Dear colleagues! Considering that the committee didn't support the first reading proposal, and in general, we will refrain from supporting the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u158	Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich, faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life." Let us continue our work until the end of this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u159	People's MP Skork, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! First. I have the honour to say that the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" in no way proposes not to support the prescribed bill of recognition that has become invalid, the Act of Ukraine "On the List of Objects of State Property Rights that Are Not Subject to Privatisation". We believe that if we adopt such a bill, we should follow it up with another list. Yes, conditions may have changed, perhaps this list does not meet modern conditions. But we have to approve a new list. Otherwise, you can't cancel the previous one. Otherwise, we're starting a completely uncontrollable gang privatisation. And when I hear from my colleagues from this rostrum, it turns out to be a huge achievement that we're canceling this list. Well, it's, excuse me, colleagues, but it's a super-intention, because in this situation, where we have literally a few hundred important enterprises left, and when we have land that you're planning to start selling in a few weeks, it's totally not in the interests of the people of Ukraine. I insist on a protocol that there is no way this bill can be voted on as a whole, because clearly to it, I'm sure, there will be amendments to the MP's corps. Dear colleagues, this is a very, very harmful and very dangerous bill, which carries a lot of risks to the Ukrainian state. Please don't vote for him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u160	Bužanski Maksim Arkadyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, this list that we want to cancel now, it protects the interests of the state, it protects the interests of the citizens. We cannot together determine what has a strategic interest, which has no strategic interest without an audit, which will determine how each enterprise is on the balance of the state, whether it is oppressive, whether it is profitable. It's the wrong way to cancel things together, and then decide what to do, what not to do. We're not gonna make it back. We have to figure out the principle: first, we offer an alternative, and then we cancel what we have. And so on and on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u162	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, a minute of motivation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u163	I want to tell you, my friends, that the "For the Future" MP group considers it premature to cancel the list of property rights subject to privatization. Come on, guys, we are immediately privatizing the Olympic sports complex in Kiev, which has been reconstructed by the entire country until Euro-2012, where the country's most important cultural sporting activities are taking place. Let's take the Kyiv Sports Palace, which is also recently reconstructed and of enormous importance, privatized; the Meteor sports complex in Dniper; the Central Sports Club swimming pool of the Army, arms manufacturers, Energoatom and so on. Let's create a working group of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We will support the alternative law of two of our colleagues from Fatherland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u164	Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev, one minute, motivated by the faction Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u165	The "Fatherland" faction is very clear on this issue. What difference does it make? The option that's proposed is let's sell everything and then close our eyes. And we'll take responsibility for the Cabinet of Ministers. Option proposed as an alternative to the "Paternity" faction: first define the list. Remove from this list those enterprises that can actually be privatized. Only then can you confirm the final solution. Our position is as follows. Throughout the history of Ukraine, the privatization of one large enterprise was almost $5 billion. We didn't have any other privatization, we had a property deal. It was with Prime Minister Timoshenko, who had reached conditions that could even now be indicted in court 15 years after privatization, because there are tough conditions. So don't play with it. Confirm a clear list first, and then turn it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u166	Let me make a deal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u167	So our position is to support the bill with figure 2. And in the first bill, there's only one rule: banning the privatization of objects in the occupied area, dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u168	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is closed. Let's proceed to the vote. Everybody ready? I'm betting on the vote for acceptance, I'm stressing again, on the first reading. Because there was a lot of talk about what was needed in the first reading. It's in the first reading. On the basis of the draft Law (registration number 1054-1) on the recognition of persons who have lost their validity, the Ukrainian Act on the List of Property Rights Objects that Are Not Privatized. Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[12:07:39]] For 253 Against it, 32 held on to 46. Decision taken. I'm announcing it. Stop! In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for the second reading of the bill, registration number 1054-1. Please support and vote. [[12:08:14]] For 232 Against 15, holding, 76. Decision taken. There's a 30-minute recess, till 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We're starting work now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u170	Please, again? I asked everyone to take their jobs. We finished at 12:09, just 30 minutes -- the legal right of the national MP to resolve his questions. I would be very grateful if you would be such a principle on all matters. Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. And while you're busy, I'll start with the announcements that came to the fore. First of all, I would like to read out a statement addressed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Ukrainian national deputy Yatzenka Anatolia Volodymyrovich. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and articles 59, 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report that I am a member of the parliamentary group, the parliamentary group "For the Future" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. There's an extracurricular. Personal signature and agreement with the group manager. That's information to know. Also, while we're going, I'd like to read some statements from our colleagues that didn't have any buttons to vote on. From National Deputy Sternichuk: Please list my vote for the bill (No. 1054 with badge 1). By the national deputy Taranova O.S.: Please take into account my pro vote on the draft Ordinance on the permanent termination of the full membership of the Central Election Commission, draft Decree 2127. From the National Deputy of Ukraine. I report that on September 13, 2019, when I voted on the draft Law of 1010 at the morning session, my card did not work. The Witness is my neighbor, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich. Please count my vote for. From the National MP Tischenka: please list my vote "for" draft Law 1036 with badge 1. Information complete. Dear colleagues, are we ready to move on to the agenda? Dear colleagues, I'm asking you a question about the project. I've read all the applications. Look, I've read it all. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the agenda. Registration number of bill 1055 and 1055 with badge 1. Draft Law on the Rent of State and Municipal Property. First of all, this issue requires a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the day plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This takes 226 votes. That's why I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats, and I'm putting to the vote the question of including in the agenda of the day plenary a draft Law on State and Municipal Property Rentals (project registration number 1055 and 1055 with badge one). Can I have your back, please? [[12:42:30.]] For 214 The decision is not taken. The draft law is not included in the agenda. I very much ask all faction leaders to call again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm going to ask the faction leaders of all, because I see only the present faction of the "Serve of the People" faction of the "ES" is not fully stocked, and the faction of "The Fatherland" is not fully stocked. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to return to this vote. Come on. Well, yeah. Dear colleagues, one second. I bring to those who know the Rules that the rule is: we can put to the vote again by the time of inclusion. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Please take your seats. I am asking about the inclusion in the agenda of the daily plenary session of the Ukrainian State and Municipal Property Rental Act (project registration number 1055 and 1055 with badge 1). Please support and vote. [[12:44:31]] For 228 Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I will also ask you to take your seats, everyone who has not yet arrived. And it needs an ad hoc vote on the review and decision-making at this plenary session of the State and Municipal Property Rental Act (project registration number 1055 and 1055 with badge 1), as well as 226 votes. Please vote and vote. [[12:45:14]] For 238. Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am now putting the same issue under reduced procedure. It takes 150 votes to make a decision. The draft Law on State and Municipal Property (project registration number 1055 and 1055 with badge 1). Please vote and vote. [[12:45:49]] For 243 Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the report of the National MP of the Ukraine, Mr. Mobchan Oleksija Vasilovich. Please, Alexy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u171	Good day, Your Honor, fellow national MPs, Ukrainians! For your consideration, Bill No. 1055 on the rent of state and municipal property is proposed. This law, first of all, on economic development, and it will help Ukraine and the communities become richer. This law on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in cities. And also this law on the economic development of small local self-government bodies and areas. Today, rental legislation is imperfect. The law was passed in 92 C.E., and everything that happens does not correspond to the demands of today’s economy. It's all published in newspapers, local self-government websites, everything's decentralized. Accordingly, low competition and under-reach to the budget. Bill 1055 proposes a single model of electronic auctions for renting state and municipal property in ProZorro. Sales. ProZorro systems. Sales have already shown their result in the sale of state and municipal property in small privatization, in the sale of the assets of the deposit guarantee fund, and have already made more than 20 billion dollars to the state. The system works by principle when everyone sees everything, and now the public can control all the auctions that take place at the state and municipal levels. Moreover, we have a big problem of renting one bracelet, and this bill solves this problem by gradually taking these assets out of the shadows and creating conditions for business to compete for this property.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u172	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u173	It will make Ukraine richer, and the economy will grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u174	Thank you. I give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine. Excuse me, National Deputy of Ukraine Motovilovtsa Andriy Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, welcome. I want to show you an example of what we're changing and what's going to happen. This is a privatization publisher printed. You can't even buy it, it's only on signature. There's rent here, and it's great to find any object anywhere. Sadly, no, it is very difficult, almost impossible. This has been our lease since 1992. What do we propose? We suggest we do everything in a transparent way. You can see any object, you can see the conditions, the cities, the state enterprises, the government makes decisions, as we say. I want to pay special attention to today. To this day, we give the owners the full right to manage. We have the Ukrainian Privatization Act. We already have, a new one, I think you'll support today, the new Rent Act. We will also be considering the Ukrainian Act on Concessions today. This is for the manager to be able to make a management decision. If you have a good object that does not require an enormous amount of repair, you can rent it. If it takes a lot of investment, we can put it in concession. If it's not needed by the community or by public enterprises, please, it's privatization, you can sell it. What are we talking about? We now have 13,000 objects, and we can turn in 80. The largest real estate owner is a state, let's make it transparent, efficient and rich. You can receive additional funds from your cities and villages. I ask you to change that and vote for a transparent lease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u176	Thank you, Andry Viktorovich. The word is given to the Deputy Head of the Economic Development Committee of the Podlasa Roxolana Andriyevni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! Ukraine now ranks 83th in the world after the development of competition. Our markets are distorted and mutilated by government authorities that provide benefits to public and private businesses. The rent market for state and municipal property is a powerful example of this. In 11 areas of the Ukraine, local governments provide more than 40 percent of the area at the price of 1 bracelet per square metre. In the region of Chernobyl, 74 percent of the country's area is paid for by a single bracelet. I don't know if it's charity, or whether it's corruption, but I do know that an entrepreneur who rents a space for a thousand dollars a square can't compete with someone who rents a single bracelet. We will never achieve economic growth by 7 percent if it's not the one who does better, but the one who has access to the official's body. Only transparent auctions can provide real competition and real revenues to local budgets. Two days ago, we were arguing about how to replace the rations contribution to the infrastructure, and we're giving local communities a real tool -- a transparent lease. As a result of the discussion, the members of the Economic Development Committee decided on the outcome of the first reading of the draft Law on State and Municipal Property (No. 1055). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Please sign up for factions: two for, two against. Juršin Jaroslav Romanovich, "Golos" faction. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u179	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u180	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, very briefly what this bill is about. It finally gives us all, both entrepreneurs and citizens of Ukraine, the only basis for this lease, which is state-owned, and on competitive transparent terms to get this lease. This is the bill that gives our business the opportunity to finally get those sites, those spaces that are very often owned by the state and are either used or not for the purpose, or at a low cost. So understanding that this bill can be improved, we need to take it as a basis today and work on the second reading so that it can act as quickly as possible and enable our businesses to get our economy additional state resources that will be geared towards the development of the Ukrainian business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u182	Thank you. Kitzak Bogdan Viktorovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u183	Please pass the word to Alexia Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u184	Alexei Mukchan, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u185	Thank you very much. In addition, the bill takes into account the requirements of the Association of Ukrainian Cities and local self-government authorities for renting through the ProZorro system. Sales. There were also comments from Transparency International, other public organizations that supported such an auction model and also made their comments, and the alternative bill took this into account. The bill includes conditions that all rental objects will be transmitted through the only electronic register that you can access from your smartphone at any point in the world. Moreover, the bill provides for the publication of absolutely all information on future and existing leases in the only ProZorro system. Sales, so you can always, the public can control and monitor how effectively the community or the state uses or rents their property. And the last thing that's supposed to be a novelty, so to speak, in the bill, is that here we're moving away from an assessment that was very often a corruption component that didn't put objects of municipal and state ownership into competitive trades, and we use the concept of a balance sheet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u186	Thank you. The word is Fries. Oh, no, Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u187	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, honourable Members, I believe that the initiative proposed by the authors of both bills is the right one. It is necessary. The system we put in place under the August 1, 2016 law has been shown to be an advanced technology, process organization, methodology and economic efficiency. In order for us not to refer to different ways in which we work and other real estates, as numbers, we need to do the first audits and local self-government, and the government authorities that pass it over for one bracelet of space, whether it's for district councils or for city councils or for others, it's a necessity and it needs to be addressed. Then after the audition, we'll see how to move forward, because it's all going to be in manual control. In view of this, our faction "European Solidarity" stands ready to support Bill 1055-1. We've been looking at it on a profile committee, it's been quite, I'd say, a professional discussion, but a few words or positions I'd like to say, which is what the committee head and the committee members agreed to. First of all, it's hard to call these bills alternative, they complement one little plane, but let's say we counted it on the committee. Second, in principle, the text has not changed, and we suggest that the list of leases is both proposed in order to make contracts. Let's look at the aspects of three blocks. First block. The Ministry of Finance needed economic justification. Because the formation of the 2020 budget, which will be available on Monday, requires the revenue and expenditure portion. Here you just have to approach this position pragmatically and give an answer from first and second readings. Secondly, everyone knows that the use of trading venues is a paid service. Members of the committee were provided with services.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u188	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u189	What is the effect of economic calculation on this principle? And the third. What's important is that the Science-Expert Authority has made a number of observations on two bills. In this situation, we need to approach strictly dryly, in terms of financial efficiency, economic relevance and the speedy adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u190	Thank you. Tetjana Mikhailovna's crying, faction. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u191	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Of course, publicity in such matters is important, both openness and transparency. But I wanted to address and continue with the opinion of the previous speaker, and appeal to what was said to the people who presented the bill. Well, first and foremost, economic impact, economic growth. We insisted that you give specific economic indicators that will affect the income of the budget, the local budgets, and so on. Information has already been provided on the Ministry of Finance's warnings about the possible non-fulfilment of the income part of the budget, particularly in the following year. I would also like to point out that, if we're talking about 2018, it's 2.4 billion dollars from rent, from the use of a complete property complex and other state property to the state and local budgets. While, for example, 39 billion dollars were received as a budget bill. Another important aspect of forestland is that they are very distinctive, especially in rural areas. They should be included in a list of enterprises that cannot be leased. Today, especially in the Polish regions, this is an extremely topical issue, and it would be important to take this into account in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u192	Andrew Ivanovich Nikolayenko, "Fatherland" faction. Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, I'd like to take a few moments of this law into consideration. First. We're not the only ones at risk. Now, there's been a lot of talk about property, real estate, but I remind you that there's a concept of a whole property complex that often provides heat, water and services for utilities. And here's the question of price, rent is not a priority, it's in the first place the quality of service. If someone pays a lot, rents, and then stops providing heat, water, there will be problems, and it will affect the interests of the citizens. So this has to be settled and the city has to decide exactly how to do this procedure and see competence. Another element is education and science. I am glad that this matter was discussed on the committee. And I'm stressing that it has to be taken into account, because a lot of the citizens that are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u194	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u195	they receive educational services in improved measures, and if they return to rent, they may lose out, as thousands of children and citizens will change there.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u196	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u197	The Future Group supports constructive proposals, such as the simplification of the lease procedure. But at the same time, we pay attention to the risks that exist in the legislative initiatives. The first is that there is an expert conclusion from the Ministry of Finance in Ukraine, which clearly states that the implementation of the bill could result in the loss of government and local budgets' income in the form of public and utility rents. I would like to draw attention to the expert conclusions. And second position. We're looking at a situation that might be involved in the implementation of this bill for religious organizations that, in addition to religious activities, implement education as well as for charitable and social organizations. Please consider the drafters of the bill. And we support this bill on the basis, but we're going to file our papers with the other.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u198	Thank you. Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, the Voice faction, with motives, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u199	My colleagues, I'd like to add. We certainly support this progressive bill because, you know, the rent of government property is just impossible for businessmen of small (medium) enterprises. It's a very complicated and bureaucratic procedure. In doing so, we want to point out that this bill is not harmonized with the bill that we are considering further after the concession. He's the one who finds the other and creates the rightful colossus. Let's put this away for the second reading. The other one. We have an observation that renters may have offshore companies, as well as companies that, let's say, don't support transparent procedures and support money-laundering procedures. So let's focus on that. And the third. The transitional period for old leases is a little small at 12 months. I think we need to make the procedure clear for previous tenants, otherwise there's going to be a collapse in the market.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u200	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Let's go to the vote. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (registration number 1055-1) on the rental of state and municipal property. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:04:37]] For 296 Against 0, hold on to 13. Decision taken. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for the second reading of the bill (registration number 1055-1). Please support and vote. [[13:05:10]] For 272 Against 0, hold on to 30. Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. But the announcement, Mr. Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. This morning we discussed the issue of the calendar plan. We left it as it is. We understood the great need for committee work. And there's this proposal that's procedural right now. We then propose 17 numbers, this is the next Tuesday, which we planned as a sessional job, yet we define as a committee job to work on these issues, and from Wednesday we start voting in a second reading. If there is no objection, I propose a vote. This takes 226. And to give an order to the Apparatus to prepare them, to adjust this plan accordingly. The question is only about one number, 17 numbers make work on committees for more quality work on drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u202	So before 17 we had to work in the hall, now we're going to make committee day. Please support and vote. [[13:06:39]] For 299 Against two, hold on to six. It's almost a constitutional majority. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been given a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on improving the licensing of business (registration No. 1060). We need to include it in the agenda of the plenary. Please support and vote. [[13:07:21]] For 287 Against 0, hold on to 13. Decision taken. We need to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[13:07:45]] For 273 Against - 1, holding - 28. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider the above-mentioned bill by summary procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:08:07]] For 269 Against - 1, holding - 34. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Podlasi Roxolani Andriyovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, Project 1060 aims at several key tasks. First of all, it's cleaning up all the sectoral laws that don't comply with the Ukrainian License Act. I've said many times before from this rostrum that there are readings and collations that are a tool of business pressure, because some authorities continue to issue licenses, and then it's accused in court, and it's a powerful example, it's telecommunications. Before we changed the sectoral law, NHRI continued to issue licences, although licensing in this area is not mandatory as of January 1, 2018. The second task of Bill 1060 is to remove the legislative commissions and improve the law itself. Because the practice of applying the Ukrainian Licensing Law has revealed a number of shortcomings. In particular, for example, licensing authorities have found that they do not implement the decisions of the Board of Appeal, we are responsible for failing to implement the decisions of the body of pre-trial prosecution, because business rights must be protected. We uphold the principle that new types of licensing are introduced exclusively by law and by amending article 7 of the Ukrainian License Act. Finally, we simplify the licensing procedure as such, we introduce a temporary suspension mechanism. Because the license is now being revoked even after the violation has been removed, and the entrepreneur has to wait a year to seek a renewal of the license. Moreover, the grounds for lifting the license will be much more severe. 1060 is a bill that protects business from the will of officials, so please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u204	Thank you, Rocsolana Andrienne. A member of the Committee on Economic Development, Kitsak Bogdan Viktorovich, is given the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u205	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on 11 September 19th reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the licensing of economic activities (1060). The purpose of the bill is to improve the existing legislative field aimed at organizing social relations in the field of licensing for economic activities, removing internal collations, improving licensing procedures, promoting the creation of favourable conditions for operators, introducing economic activity, and strengthening their trust in public authorities, which is extremely important. Again, several recommendations and responses were received from other committees. The Anti-Corruption Policy Committee concludes that the draft act does not reveal any corruption. The Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights also considered the bill and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a basis for the first reading. The Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union has reached its own conclusion, stating that the bill does not correspond to the Association Agreement and needs to be further developed in the area of space regulation. But I will point out that this sub-item will be regulated in further laws to be considered today. As a result of the discussion, Ukrainian National Deputies decided to introduce a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the licensing of business activities 1060 for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and recommending that the first reading should be adopted on the basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u206	Thank you. I'd like to write it down by factions: two for, two for, two for. Love of Dmitry Valeriovich, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u207	Hello. Please pass the word to Dmitri Natalus.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u208	Dmitri Andriovich Nataluha. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Look, I repeat from time to time, however, that the main task of the Economic Policy Committee is to finally achieve a reduction in the amount of stress in the economy, in business and in business. And that's what this law is about. This law corrects a very large number of inaccuracies, disagreements that entrepreneurs face every day in the process of licensing their own activities, there are many fundamental contradictions that are being reversed by this law. This law ensures that conditions are created for the poor. Most importantly, it improves the procedure for the prosecution of the activities of the licensing authorities to the Board of Experts. And that's why the main value of this law, which has been brought to your attention today, is to reduce the stress of entrepreneurs in the process of running your business, so that everyone who is doing business and who wants to earn legal money peacefully in Ukraine should not constantly think about what he is going to have to face with the authorities right now, and the process will go on for a lot of time. We want to make this process and business in Ukraine as comfortable as possible. That is why we propose and ask you to support this bill as one that reduces stress in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u210	Thank you. Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u211	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I want to confirm or extend the opinion of the committee head, we have indeed had a positive discussion, a fairly reasoned conviction and an adequate decision. In general, our committee, when we look at the prospects that will continue not only 16 blocks of macrostabilisation, but the perspective, it increases confidence in the state, and macrostabilisation inside, business trust, and that's what we want. When we look at this bill, there are two positions: position one is to improve the internal procedures of the country, and position two is to improve the position of ease of business, which is what needs to be done. Because 71 positions, four years ago 152 years ago, are talking about that job that was done in the future pretty big. At the same time, we need to understand three big aspects. The first aspect is the change in domestic legislation. The first is that we change the amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences and to the laws on licensing of economic activities, on drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors, and on State registration of legal, natural persons - entrepreneurs and social formations. These are laws and codes that change their position. What's coming out of here? First, we need to look carefully, especially at what affects people’s health. And you can't influence or change it just the way you want it to be sometimes fashionably accepted in a room or outside the hall. The second aspect is that it is a question, that entrepreneurs should not step up, turn into the worst part of getting one or the other documentaries. either a document or a confirmation or something. And the third. When we talk about drugs, we need to be very, very careful. We offer from our political power to accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u212	Keep going. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u213	We suggest that we support in the first reading, between the first and second readings, a warning especially to the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration of the Seven Points, and especially what was discussed at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u214	Thank you. Labunska Angela Victorovna, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u215	Please pass the word to Andrew Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u216	Andrew Ivanovich, Nikolainka
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u217	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The bill clearly has a good perspective and it regulates a lot of things, but it has a number of positions that give rise to warnings, and I want to pay attention to them. In particular, the amendments to article 156 of the Code of Administrative Violations remove the need for, honorable deputies, the licensing of the sale of alcoholic beverages, and this article is also excluded from export-import operations for alcoholic beverages. Another risk is to exclude the position of licensing space activities. And we're going to be looking at this today, but this bill also provides for this. Another issue is the exclusions from the Advertising of Goods Act, which should be certified, is that we can allow advertising of things that are not certified, especially considering what they may be, well, a threat to the life or health of citizens. And the Chief Scientific and Expert Office rightly notes that the amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Social Moral Protection to exclude regulations on the licensing of the activities of the circulation of sexual and erotic products, drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors are unacceptable. This has already been said, that is, there are things that need to be exactly normalized. And that's why we had to do it at all before the first reading, but we have to do everything we can to make sure that it doesn't go into the final version of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u218	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, all willing to speak? 30 seconds to go, Rocksolan Andriyevna. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u219	Fellows, I would like to point out to you that Law 1060 does not invalidate any license, there is no license. They don't work, they don't give them up for veterinary medicine or distribution services. Not for sexual distribution and all that. There are no such licenses.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u220	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Yeah. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. I am voting on the proposal for the first reading of the draft Law (Registration No. 1060) amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the order of licensing for economic activity. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Please support and vote. [[13:20:10]] For 282 For 282, versus 1, hold on to 16. Decision taken. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for the second reading of the bill (registration number 1060). Please support and vote. [[13:20:44]] For 257 For 257 versus 0, hold on to 36. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, there's an offer from several factions to continue our work on the basis of 2.30 p.m., and we'll be able to exhaust the full order of our meeting today. [[Flushing]] But we have to vote for it. I suggest we continue the morning session before we run out. Yeah. Please turn on the microphone, Sergey Calchenko, "Serve of the People" faction, head of the Rules Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u221	The honourable members of the Regulatory Committee were appointed to our meeting at 14:15. If the decision to proceed is now taken, then immediately after the meeting, I request that the plenary meet at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u222	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote. Dear colleagues, I propose to continue the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine before we exhaust the agenda of our meeting. Please support and vote. No breaks. We work all the time. Please support and vote. [[13:22:23]] For 304 Constitutional majority. 304 – in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, Decision taken. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on State regulation of space activities (Registration No. 1071). We need to vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please support and vote. [[13:23:05]] For 267 For -267, versus -0, held - 33. Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[13:23:29]] For 265 For 265, versus 0, held 34. Decision taken. I would like to consider the above-mentioned issue in a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:23:50]] For 260 For -260, versus -0, held -37. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Natalusi Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u223	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor, when we speak the word "space," the average cyanothic, most likely mentions, unfortunately, not Sergey Royal or Leonid Cadyuk, the "Sic-1" satellite or the "Cyclonal-3" rocket and "Zenit-3SL". When we speak the word space here in Kiev, it's likely that only a former mayor of the capital will be mentioned. At the same time, the space sector is as natural for our nation as we naturally identify missiles with the name Ilon Mask today. Nevertheless, Ukraine has a full cycle of space production. But we can hardly be called the European space capital. And our Ukrainian Ilona Masks tend to work unnoticed. But why is that? Because Ukrainian space has always been represented by the state. At first it was the USSR, then it was the state-owned enterprises of an independent Ukraine. It's a historically fair model, but it's ineffective, and it's why Ukraine left space. The purpose of this bill is to return to space forever. How are we going to do that? You see, legislation contains several fundamental contradictions. On the one hand, article 4 on space activities provides for the promotion of commercialization of space activities and investment in the field, on the other hand, article 4 of the Business Act limits commercialisation, as it provides that testing, production, use of carrier rockets, including space launches, can only be done by state enterprises. The purpose of this bill is to remove this contradiction and to lift the restrictions on the market and private companies. This will allow us to engage in the Ukrainian space sector of investment, create new jobs and new levels of rules that will soon enable Ukraine to compete for the title of the European capital of space. Yeah, it's probably a dream. But the realm of space has always been the realm of mankind’s dreams. But I want to remind the audience in this room that until recently we may have dreamed the same about what happened this year, but today it's a reality. Let's do Ukrainian space.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u224	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u225	Honorable, space will either be Ukrainian, or it doesn't exist. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u226	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Development, Dmitry Davidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u227	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Kisilevsky Dmitry, I'm a Major of Dniper, so space for any person from Dniper is not just words, it's actually life and pride, but unfortunately, this pride can leave us if we don't do space, because the space sphere itself won't survive. I'll give the opinion of the committee on this bill. Thus, the Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on September 11, this year, considered a revised draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on State Regulation of Outer Space Activities (1071), submitted by the National Deputies of Nataluha and other National Deputies. What's this bill for, colleagues? To give some air to private space companies. Nevertheless, they do exist in Ukraine. Today we are taking the first step towards creating a private space sphere in Ukraine. The activities of space companies, even after the adoption of this bill, will still be highly regulated and will require a significant number of agreements, including to ensure that the international obligations that lie ahead of Ukraine are fulfilled. On the committee, we will continue to work on this sphere, which is still alive in Ukraine. But whether it will remain alive and still in Ukraine depends on how you and I make decisions about the cosmos. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that this project is appropriate for further work. The Anti-Corruption Policy Committee concluded on September 11th that the project did not reveal corruption and that the project met the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. And as a result of the discussion, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee, decided to introduce a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on national regulation of space activities (number 1071) (worked) for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to recommend that it be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Please support
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u228	Thank you, Dmitri Davidovich. Please sign up for the factions. Grishenko Tetjana Mikolayevna, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u229	Please pass the word to Gritchuk Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u230	Gritsuk Roman, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, welcome! Friends, I urge you to support Bill 1071. It's important to understand that space for Ukraine is a huge economic potential. Guys, think about it. By 2024, the space market will have increased to $516 billion. And just so we understand, space is not just a government grant that we have, it's also a startup and private investment. We need to start reforming space. And this reform starts with Law 1071, which has to be removed, has to remove these barriers to investment in space. To understand, space is not just the launch of super-heavy rockets from the cosmodre, as we imagine. The market for commercial launches, for which light - class missiles are needed, is being actively developed. Space is also a satellite. Space is also data processing, it's data analysis plugins, it's agro-industry services, it's for manufacturing industry, it's for environmentalists, it's for communications operators. We now have old Soviet standards that prohibit private companies from doing space activities. I think you and I are going to get rid of this. So I urge everyone to support Bill 1071. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u232	Thank you. Kubov Stepan Ivanovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u233	Dear Mr. Head, your honor! This is a very important issue for Ukraine as a whole and on a global scale. When we talk about space, I welcome the head of space. Mr. Degtirenko Paula and the Deputy Minister of Economics, and I want to say that the space sector has its history, has its victories. But we have to say today that we have to do an audit because the project that was made, Brazil, Ukraine and the Russian Federation -- it's almost a billion dollars that has not been studied. The first is to conduct audits. The second important question. When we're talking in the hall, it's cool and you can like what we're talking about. Let's talk about space, and we're not going to be astronauts in this room, we're going to be statesmen. And we're talking about big billions of dollars. I'm talking about Wilhu today, Wilhu-M is a clone. Zenith is the best rocket. We're talking about things that need to be addressed to people who work in Dniper and in other 120 businesses that show a system of technology that can't be sold for nothing today. You can't do that, and you can't run private capital into a crisis when there's a war in the country. The second block is very important. When we see the launch of "Cyclones" or "Vilhu", "Vilhu-M", we're talking about the Southern Development Bureau and the South Engineering Association. When we talk about the founder of Ilon Mask, the American SpaceX, we see it online, how it goes. We have to raise the price of our technology on the other side. The second important question. Players in the market are specific spheres. And you can't go there like that. That we agreed on a committee. This law must be adopted, but it is not yet ready. We need to have a discussion, Mr. Head, on a level.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u234	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u235	The discussion is to be held at the level of the committee's platform, in certain specific aspects, and in a closed discussion, to invite specialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u236	Stepan Ivanovich. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u237	Colleagues, we're talking today about billions of capital that we need to save for our designer engineers to win the ones we need to make. Thank you. We'll hold out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u238	Thank you. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u239	Dear colleagues! You probably have to say the main thing at the beginning. Ukraine in a seven space nations that have a full cycle. Let us take a look at the memory and recall where we have entered the ten so proudly in other fields or fields. And that's why, for professionals, for the scientific community, for industry specialists, we're stressing what's in this bill. It cancels, first, the state monopoly. This is clearly a competitive environment. The other one. Deletes the license position. Third. Authorisations for space objects to negotiate are being eliminated. Voluntary certification is being introduced. The compulsory insurance is cancelled and so on. This is all a positive thing: Demonopolization, a competitive environment, is development. But, friends, remember, back in the old days there was a grading of documents: DSK (for official use), in secret, in secret. But there was another document, a special folder, which included a whole space sector. Because it's not just a species of scientific and technological progress, it's also a defence and national security. So, we accept this document in terms, as has already been said here by colleagues, the state monopoly is reversed in terms of threats to national security, in fact, in terms of war. It's different. The bill opens the way for the privatization of the space sector, but does not provide qualified preconditions for potential investors. And the third. There is no ban on space-based activities by operators, like themselves or their founders, originating in an aggressor State located in offshore areas, under sanctions recognized by bankruptcy, etc. That is why we vote in the first reading. And let's ask the chairman, colleagues, let's not look at the accelerated procedure for the second reading. It is very professional to work with space specialists and other institutions for second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u240	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u241	Thank you. Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich! In support of the previous speaker, I would like to say that, of course, this bill is about improving the state regulation of space activities, but it is important to focus on the diversification of methods and instruments of state support for space activities. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to remind previous speakers that, in terms of the space and the space sector as a whole, we need to remember, not first of all, Ilon Mask, but the great Queen. That's two. And the third. If we really want to support a given branch, we need to take first heed the suggestions and warnings that our colleagues just gave us from the profile industry. And the last. By 2014, in principle, we had the opportunity and the potential to develop the space rocket industry. After 2014, we lost this potential, because of the change in the vector of economic integration and other aspects, and I would like to remind the drafters of the bill that the development of the sector is precisely a matter of regional economic integration, and I need to focus on that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u242	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? If so, let's move on to. It's a motive. Igor Marchuk is a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u243	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, first of all, you have to have the courage to tell us honestly and frankly that today our country's missile-space sector has been abandoned. It survives as much as possible, chronic underfunding, management problems, divisions spread across the various corners of Ucrobanprom's most profitable enterprises. Of the 26 companies under the authority of the State Space Agency, only five are profitable, friends, we have no funds. So it's a good thing we can do it with you in the background. It is important to remove restrictions on private businesses to engage in space activities, cancel insurance obligations, and create opportunities for investors.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u244	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite a colleague to the hall and take your seats. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (Registration No. 1071) amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine regarding the state regulation of space activities. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Colleagues ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:39:33]] For 283 For -283, against - 1, hold - 28. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Draft Concession Act (Registration No. 1046). It is proposed to be included in the agenda of the plenary. Please support and vote. [[13:40:12]] For 292 For 292, versus 0, hold on to 16. Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[13:40:35]] For 287 For -287 versus -0, held - 19. Decision taken. I suggest you consider the above-mentioned issue in summary procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:40:58]] For 263 To 263. Against it, 1 / 1 We're holding on to 40. Decision taken. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Natalusi Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u245	Your Honor, Your Honor, thank you very much. The Act of Concession is of great importance to you. Concession is an effective and transparent administration of state property. That's it. There's no higher mathematics, there's no quantum physics. There is, on the one hand, a white object of state ownership, an inefficient, inequitable and non-profitable object that we hand over to the concessionaire who invests in it, and this object begins to generate profits, creates additional jobs, and gets its state back in an improved state with certain upgrading equipment. You see, state-owned enterprises and state-owned property in Ukraine today are mostly sand. Just as the sand goes through the fingers, so they go through the government budget all the revenue, all the money, because they're inefficiently administered and they're inefficiently managed. The situation today is three ways in which we can make this administration effective. It's a lease, and we just voted with you for rent, and we're really hoping it'll make a lot better. It's privatization. And it's a concession. Why is concession important? It is also important because it is a private sector, that is, an investor, a person who invests money in this object, puts investment, social, and environmental obligations. That is, during the concession period, all these obligations and all the responsibility for these aspects are borne by the concessionaire himself. But then, after a certain moment of time, after the treaty is concluded, the state will get back an object that is modernized, which is optimized, which normally works under normal European practices, with new approaches and concepts. So this is a critical bill for investing in Ukraine. I'm asking you to support me, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u246	Thank you. A member of the Committee on Economic Development, Kitsak Bogdan Viktorovich, is given the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u247	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on 11 September 19th reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act on Concession (1046), submitted by the People's Deputies Nataluha and Podlas and other people's deputies. So, what is our current situation? So today we don't have any successful projects, at least one implemented, at least one successful case of state-private enterprise. Yes, and the famous Lviv-Krakovec car, which is currently unrealized. What else is the situation at this time? In fact, the state or we are stopping the world’s partners from entering infrastructure objects, and we are not able to invest huge amounts of money to make the economy work. The point of the proposed bill today is that we clearly regulate and establish the principles of state-business interaction, we harmonize and harmonize Ukrainian legislation, we reduce bureaucratic barriers. An important observation is that all objects will and will remain in the state property of Ukraine. In no way will they be privatized, transferred there and so on. What benefits do we gain from adopting the bill? Infusing huge resources into the Ukrainian economy, we get powerful management, we get effective administration and quality infrastructure. First - row objects to which the funds will be invested and what the Ministry of Economic Development is actually waiting for their infusion will be airports, ports, and highways. For the sake of understanding, we don't solve the question of the involvement of foreign and by one bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u248	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u249	involving foreign and domestic investors in the Ukrainian economy, but we're doing and showing together that we're taking a step towards this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u250	Bogdan Viktorovich, let's follow the rules. Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u251	As a result of the discussion, Ukrainian national deputies decided to submit a draft Ukrainian concession law (1046) for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to recommend the results of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u252	Thank you. Dear colleagues, one request: when we're preparing for the report, it's still a two-minute rule. Please register by faction: two in favour, two in opposition. Tarasenko Taras Petrovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u253	Good afternoon, honourable deputies, distinguished people of Ukraine! I mean, concession is a very effective way of implementing Ukraine's economic development. So I ask everyone to support this process in order to make Ukraine grow, the economy is developing. The law provides for clear conditions for the transfer of state property, other concessional conditions, so I think it's worth a lot of support. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u254	Thank you. The word is given by Yvchenko. Klimenko Julia Leonidni, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u255	My colleagues, thank you so much for the People's Servant's Bill. It's been developing for many years before, two or three years now, the whole market, business associations and all the relevant drafts of this bill, it's really important, it needs to be supported. The Voice faction supports it and will support it. But there's one point that I'd like to make to my colleagues at the "Serve of the People." In Ukraine there are two concessional projects that were put out one day ago for a competition that will last 60 days. This is Olivia and Harrison. Now if we change the conditions again, which were developed by almost two years by international partners, if we change legislation again now and these two projects will be reviewed. will be subject to new legislation, there will be big issues both for international partners and for investors who will come and invest in these projects. So our request: "Transitional positions," please delete the current projects that are now concessional, and allow them to finish under the conditions of previous legislation or clearly determine the terms of the competition. Because Ukraine would look very unattractive in the eyes of investors if we did one procedure, one law, and then we would adopt another, and we would actually force investors to review the terms and the contracts. Thank you very much. We will introduce our corrections and suggestions in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u256	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u257	The concession law is actually a continuation of those projects that we've been looking at today. They can be referred to as "government of state property." This is one of the ways the state can, effectively managing state ownership, obtain, on the one hand, the retention of objects that represent strategic importance for the state, and it is not always necessary to count incomes. But, on the other hand, it is no doubt a business, and therefore the profitability of business, including by handing over to a concession to a state company, must be clearly defined in legislation. That's why we're warning a number of key points. It cannot be passed on into concession to legal persons who have a special tax regime, first of all being actually Ukrainian, to be taxed off-shore or semi-shore jurisdiction. I don't know what's going to win this if this clear rule isn't warned in law. The other one. For us it actually has to be key to how government ownership happens, that's why. Here were the examples of ports, let's see. The Berdian seaport, which managed management successfully, concluded that after the change of management, the docks had been leased to a private company, and all debts had been left to the public enterprise. This can lead him to bankruptcy and tell him that there is ineffective governance. So our position is as follows: this bill should be clearly in line with the bills voted before that, which deal with preventing the use of state property in a way that the State will not receive anything from concession.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u258	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, Future Group. Then Ivan Stepanovich of the Cubans, and we vote. Please turn on the microphone from where Batenka is located.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u259	Dear friends, our parliamentary group "For the Future" supports this bill, and I consider it a positive reformist bill, a bill that should give a clear signal to everyone not to be afraid to invest, to invest in public property. God forbid this bill just becomes law, it will speed up and interest the construction of concession roads, highways in Ukraine. He will allow us to preserve the protection of legislation — our castles that are falling and falling because people are afraid to accept them into concessions and put them there. Obviously, it has to significantly expand the state-private partnership and, of course, involve domestic and foreign investors. What observations do we see in this regard? The first is to refer to concessionaires only to legal persons living in Ukraine, why it will not contribute to foreign investment in Ukraine. Second, that draft article 2 excludes the Ukraine’s Code of Land. We understand that the implementation of the concessional project is not possible without the concessionaire being granted appropriate land, state or municipal property. And regulating the right relationship is the subject of the Ukrainian Earth Code. That's why our future MP group is obviously going to support this important bill. And the request to the authors is to work it out, taking these notes into account for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u260	Thank you. Kubi Stepan Ivanovich, a minute of motive. And let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, prepare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u261	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, I would like to say that, among the first and second readings, we should consider those comments and the suggestions of the previous speakers. The other one. This law has been widely developed openly, transparently, publicly, including international and internal experts, for more than three and a half years. And he was introduced to the last session under number 0879. Third. We will support the first reading of the bill, but there is a request for the chairman not to make a summary procedure, because there are 7 pages of warning, a note by the GNEU of the Supreme Council. And the third major is that according to the World Bank, in countries like Ukraine and developing, concessions can be up to 70 percent of the cost of public-private partnerships. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u262	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's go to the vote. Everyone, please take your seats. Honorable national MPs, factions heads, invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (Registration No. 1046). The Act on Concession. Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:54:50]] For 293 Against 0, hold on to 12. Decision taken. In accordance with part two of article 16 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for the second reading of the concession bill (registration number 1046). Please support and vote. [[13:55:24]] For 254 Against - 2, holding - 53. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been given a draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of a single tax and congregation account, a single contribution to a compulsory state social insurance (registration number 1049). We need to vote and support its inclusion in the agenda of the plenary. Please support and vote. [[13:56:08]] For 271 Against 0, hold on to 35. I propose to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please accept. Please support and vote. [[13:56:33]] For 270. Against - 1, holding - 40. Decision taken. I would like to consider the above-mentioned bill in summary procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:56:55]] For 268. Against - 1, held - 36. Decision taken. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Natalusi Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u263	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, congratulations again! See, if we can maximize the purpose and purpose of this bill, there is a big problem for business today. Yes, there are several and many, these accounts to pay taxes on. The purpose of this bill is to reshape the system when different taxes are paid to different accounts. There is a corresponding overpayment of various accounts. One could be overpayment, another would be underpayment. Then the sanctions begin, and chaos begins. Again, what we started last time begins with stress for the entrepreneur. So there's an offer to do one account, and this account opens up in the treasury. And this account is paid mainly by all but two exceptions to the taxes that exist today. And the IRS is already in charge of how this all happens. What advantages. First of all, you're going to spend less time forming payment orders. If the payer is comfortable, he may form not a few errands or even one. And it will provide for all the necessary payments. But second of all, it's important. As a payer, you will not be affected by changes in budget receipts because they will be updated automatically in your office. As a result, taxes are reduced by mistake or excessively paid taxes. The law is as simple as a door, it simply simplifies, forgives for the toutology, process and administration of taxes paid, and makes life easier for entrepreneurs. Therefore, I am very grateful for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u264	Thank you. The words for the report are given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u265	Thank you. Presidious People’s Deputies! On the committee, we considered this bill. This bill is related to the following bill, which we plan to include in the agenda, is 1,051. They're divided because we can't change the Tax Code at the same time to other legislation, so these two bills. The idea of the bill was quite successful and clearly just presented by Dmitry Nataluha. I'm going to say the only thing is that the committee recommended that this bill be adopted as a basis, because we have some disagreements with the Cabinet of Ministers on the functioning of this account. We would like to see this account, indeed, be the only account for which the entrepreneur has paid the funds and thus has fulfilled his obligations to the budget. But the State Tax Service is not technically ready for this today, so we need to work on it for a second reading. So I ask everyone to support in the first reading and this one, and. Well, for the next one, I'll tell you the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u266	Thank you. Two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two Rudik Kira Alexanderovna, the Voice faction. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u267	I give you my word to Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u268	Colleagues, this bill clearly needs to be supported on a basis and only on a basis. And the idea is very correct, it was presented to you by the reporters, it's instead of our companies paying separately for different accounts, sometimes they're there hundreds, if for thousands, it's proposed to make the only account you're filling in your contribution, how much you're planning to pay taxes, and then it's automatically distributed. But there are little inaccuracies. This bill does not allow this automatic distribution right now. Moreover, he does not solve many problems, such as counting, returning money, and so forth. That's why he was on the committee, and the decision he made with the Minfin representatives, the DFS is to take him as a basis, quickly go through his consideration in the first reading, but very carefully refine him to the second reading in order to complement him with the content that we really want to see from "the one account." So please support this bill. And to conclude, the next bill completely reflects the same thing, but only changes to another law. Therefore, the request not to delay his consideration, to accept both as a basis. I think all the members of the profile committee are going to join the development so that we can finally have a solid functioning mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u269	Thank you. Perbinis Maxim Viktorovich, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u270	Please pass the word Alexius Ustenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u271	Alexei Ustenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u272	Good afternoon! 1049 is such a good bill. In fact, I'll repeat after my colleagues, it simplifies life to entrepreneurs, but I want to point out that it will be voluntary. So this "only account" entrepreneurs can use, they can work like this. So it's all voluntary. In fact, several mechanisms will have to work with the DFS, but I ask everyone to back it up and vote. I'm not going to take the time. And I suggest you accept it along with 1,051 too, because these are two identical bills that one adds to another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u273	Thank you. Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich. Nina Petrovna Jujanina, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u274	Of course, I didn't want to be in such a positive mood about this basic question, but I'm going to tell you what that means. First, as early as December 16, we adopted amendments to the Tax Code, where the Ministry of Finance was obliged to develop a single account system. They've developed. And you think why didn't we look at them on the committee and in the hall? Because this system does not make it easy for business subjects, but it generally puts in one more deposit account, as it does, for example, who knows, all about VAT, all about fuel and ethyl alcohol. This is such a buffer account, a treasury account, not a tax payer's account, more loyally, a payer's treasury account. Please understand that we need to make such a system so that when the payer counts the money and submits the declaration, the tax paid off the account itself, and the obligation of the payer remains to have enough money in this treasury account to cover its liabilities. At present, such obligations are not taxed. She says count the money for this one treasury account, then form it in the payer's electronic office. Of course, there may be no need for the payer to be interested in additional account numbers. But that doesn't mean that if there was a single bill, we would really solve the problem, we wouldn't have any overpayments, we'd be in charge of the tax authority, which is where they count. This would take away, indeed, a great deal of pressure on payers who can't pay back their overpayments for months or years. But the system does not offer that. So that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u275	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u276	We haven't considered this bill. And I think that by taking the first reading, maybe we'll start by developing a system just to transfer the liability of the payer to the tax authority. But I'm not sure. I just don't want this reception to be for a branch. We don't need that. And we didn't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u277	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u278	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you and I are deputies, and MPs always listen to each other, they learn all the time, they communicate with experts. And most of all, they hear, they hear what they're told. I completely agree with the previous speech, and I want to tell you what's bothering me. I am concerned, and what will be in our context when we adopt this law, the strategic vision of pension reform. After all, the next level of pension reform is a system that is identified for everyone when the EU is paid at the expense of a person, and this is what we talked about in the new course. Most people here are involved in creating a new course that Timoshenko then presented. The European Union is paying for a person’s permanent, personalized system, and then people are paid pensions, and the remainder can eventually remain heirs, relatives and others. This is the second level of the system. We need to hear from the government how this law will create or not create administrative obstacles. And my colleague said it right, come on, colleagues, let's take it as a basis, let's invite governments and experts to understand how we'll administratively then be able to introduce the same pension reform for pensioners. And that's the main thing. Do not make administrative obstacles, but make it easier to implement, including pension reform, which will be developed by the government. "Paternality" for these reasons will not support this bill, but we will join in the development, and we will propose what we proposed in the new course of Yulia Timoshenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u279	Thank you. The word is given on the motives of Varlamov Sergey Anatolyovich. "The Opposing Platform for Life" by Papiev Mikhailo Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u280	Thank you. The honourable national deputies of Ukraine, the honourable colleagues, this law is very important, and our faction of the Opposition Platform for Life, everything that makes life easier for Ukrainian citizens, entrepreneurs, businesses, everything will be maintained. Why did I take the floor today? I've heard a lot of references from the Ukrainian people's deputies today to the Cabinet of Ministers and other things. Dear colleagues, when we made the only social contribution, we were also told by the Cabinet of Ministers that the administration of this tax contribution would be very complicated. Moreover, different components, something paid by the employer, something by the Ukrainian citizen, that would be very difficult, absolutely not difficult. Parliament's position should be that we have to shape politics in these things, and let the Cabinet of Ministers form its executive functions, i.e. the order of payments. And our main point is that the social contribution should not be paid in the last instance, so that the citizens and the Pension Fund will not be affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u281	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speech is over. We're moving on to making decisions. I will ask all the national MPs to take their seats, and we are voting with you now on the adoption of a draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of a single tax and congregation account, the only contribution to a mandatory national social security number. I'm sorry, I've already been taken. 1049. Dear colleagues, are we all ready to vote? Then I ask you to support and vote. [[14:10:39]] For 269 Thank you. Decision taken. 269 — yes. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to halve the issue of making proposals for amendments to the second reading. Please vote and vote. This is for the same bill, please. [[14:11:13]] For 245 245-yes. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the last meaningful question of the bill for today. Highly esteemed colleagues, today. It is now about a bill (registration number 1051) to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code on the introduction of a single tax and assembly account, the only contribution to the mandatory public social insurance. First of all, it requires a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the plenary. Please vote and vote. [[14:12:03]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is necessary to vote ad hoc on the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session on this project, registration number 1051. Please vote and vote. [[14:12:29]] For 264 Decision taken. I suggest that we consider this issue in a simplified procedure with regard to Bill 1051. Please vote and vote. [[14:12:55]] For 257 Decision taken. I give the floor to the Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy of the People's Deputy, Mr. Hetmantsev Danil Aleksandrovitch. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to depart, because if after that we decide that in principle all we can say is we can go straight to the vote. If that's the case. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted this bill, in fact, reporting on the previous bill. I honestly don't understand what we're talking about, what the opposition was saying. Indeed, we recognize that we need to work on his second reading, and we will do so. So thank you for your support and thank you for being able to report on the last bill this memorable week, and for this memorable week that we've spent working together. And let the next few weeks be just as productive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u283	Thank you. Highly esteemed colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill because it is linked? There's an offer from the EU, the national MP of Southan, one minute, if you don't mind. Okay? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u284	Dear colleagues, the point is that I would like to propose a new bill at all that implements what you have just said, Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Profiles. Because this bill has to be rewritten completely, 100%. If we continue to do so, that is, not admitting our errors at the first reading stage, we need to change a percentage of the text for the second reading. Why would you do that? Well, you are. I don't want to read the point by the paragraphs of this bill that it has to be completely changed before the second reading. Let's work separately and hand it together from the committee, and then we'll be honest in front of each other, and we don't have to change what doesn't change anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u285	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there are no more speakers, there is an offer to go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the introduction of a single tax and congregation account, a single contribution to a general government social insurance scheme (project registration number 1051) is put to the vote. There's an offer to take as a basis. Dear colleagues, please vote and support. [[14:15:42]] For 262 262 — yes. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote in favour of shortening the deadlines for the submission of proposals and second reading rights. Please vote and support for the same Law 1051. Please. [[14:16:13]] For 236 Thank you. 236 – a.k.a. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have all the meaningful questions about today. We still have a part like the speeches of the national MPs on various issues. Dear colleagues, is there a need after such a fruitful session of ours? None. Dear colleagues, then, with your permission, this is a question we're taking down. But I want a couple more literally, some announcements that today, according to article 60 with a prim badge. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the interfractional "Ukrainian Union in the World". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Juras Svetoslav Andriyovich, was elected head of this association. Dear colleagues, I will also say that this has become possible thanks to our distinguished colleagues from the community, from the organization of the World Congress of Ukrainians of Paul Grodt, Stefan Romanov, Andrew Futey, Olena Kosharny, Zenon Potick and Sergey Cassianchuk. Let us thank them for their fruitful cooperation. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, and exactly what is expected. The next plenary session will take place on September 18 at 10 a.m. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-13-m0.u286	Dear colleagues! Don't forget your card in the chips. Thank you.
