ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Ruslan Alexiyovich, we're a little late if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all! Dear guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! National deputies, please take your seats, prepare for registration. Prepare to register. Dear national deputies, request to prepare for registration, place your cards. National deputies of Ukraine are requested to register. [[10:05:26]] Thank you. There are 386 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to include in the agenda of the day-to-day second session bills that have not been completed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, letters were received from members of the factions with the proposal to include in the order of the day - to - day second session drafts of these factions. This information was proposed by almost all the MP factions and groups represented at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to part three of article 93 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, all bills should be considered in advance by the committees. The committees should adopt conclusions on the relevance of the inclusion of bills in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Taking into account what I have to say, I give you an assignment. Dear colleagues, taking into account the above, I give the committee a mandate to review these bills as quickly as possible and to draw conclusions on their inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Dear National Deputies, today is the birthday of our colleague of the Ukrainian People's Deputies, the "Serve of the People" faction, Alexander Valeriyovich Marikowski. Congratulations, Alexander Valeriovich. I wish you success, health and realization in the new amplua. So once again with the celebration of you. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes Wednesday for the presentation of proposals, statements, and messages by national deputies. People's deputies would like to sign up for the speech. Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliyovich, faction of European Solidarity. Irina Volodymyrna's character. You don't walk one way, I get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u3	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished Presidium, distinguished voters. Last night there was a disgraceful incident when the ex-head building of the National Bank of Ukraine of Valeria Gottarieva was burned. Before that, her children’s car was burned. This disgraceful incident has already received not only the Ukrainian business, but not only the banking system, not only the politicians and political parties, to whom we are grateful for the same harsh condemnation of similar provocations and bullying, but, most importantly, this story has received a very harsh reaction from the embassies of the European Union, the Great Seven, of the United States, and perhaps for the first time in months, we have had such a hard reaction. The provocation that took place around Valeria Gontareva. The same is true of the president of Green, the law enforcement agencies. It's important. But it's very important that there be action. And our political power, first of all, we express our solidarity with Mrs. Hontarev, who in the most difficult time for the Ukrainian economy and the banking sector took responsibility for reforms. Reforms are always a very painful story. And it's very, really strange that Mrs. Gottaareva today says that she's constantly getting threats, humiliation for cleaning out the augia stables. And in fact, the same climate of terror that is covering the country today is wrong. It's very important that we keep Ukraine democratic. Only a democratic Ukraine respects and will support the world. Our political power has prepared a series of requests for law enforcement agencies, such as the Ukrainian Security Service, for the Ministry of Internal Affairs to other competent authorities, requesting special attention, personal attention, and investigation. And we will consider it necessary for them to report on the case. This is a very bad signal not only to Ukraine, but not only to the people who have, as President Zelensky rightly pointed out, to feel secure in Ukraine, which would not be practiced by people in politics. It's a very bad signal for investors, business circles and so on. And we hope that all other political forces will support this statement and this requirement of our political power. In turn, we once again express our solidarity with Mrs. Gottari. We want to hear the investigation so that the customers of this presumptuous crime and its perpetrators can be found. And we wish Mrs. Huntara's recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u4	Thank you. Leros Geo Bagratovich, "Slut of the People" faction. Let's have a word with you. Is there no room?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address those who appeal to Mrs. Potter. I'd like to say that the law enforcement authorities will do their best to investigate this. And no one is interested in prolonging this situation. Therefore, it is not necessary to speculate on what is advantageous and unfavourable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u6	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich, "The Fatherland" faction. Krulko Ivanovich. Oh, I'm sorry. Svoslav Ivanovich Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u7	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'll start with yesterday's unpleasant event. Yesterday's incident, another incident of pressure with the burning of a house, the private house of a former official, the head of the National Bank of Valeria Hontareva, is totally unacceptable in a country where the President of this rostrum claims that man is at the centre of attention and a state for man. The events that have been around Valérie Pottery recently do not have the right to happen in a civilized country of democracy. We urge both the President and the Security Service, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs not only to make statements and assessments, but to find the organizer and the client as soon as possible, to bring the case to trial, and criminals must be punished. You know, no matter how we can appreciate the activities of an official in Ukraine and the reforms they've been carrying out, we have no right to allow anyone to push, including in such a harsh criminal way on the people who are changing our country. Thank you. This time. The other one. On Friday, unfortunately, in a voluntary way, without any basis, the Supreme Council Hall supported the dismissal of members of the Central Electoral Commission. We were against this because we believe that this violates the basic principle: the law is more important than political purpose. But it happened just like it did. And we were forced by law to submit our candidacy on a one-day basis, which is what we did. We have nominated Mr. Andriy Goek as our candidate for the CBC. And we expect other factions as well, especially the President, who, in a three-day term, had to decide with his candidates, to take a step towards transparency, to openness, and to publish the members of the CTC that he will propose to us here for voting. We'd like to get to know their biographies, see who these people are, talk to them. If we have a smartphone state, let's make a statement on smartphones or Facebook, but we need to go to transparency. And the last. Today, at 3 p.m., there will be an open meeting of two committees -- foreign affairs and European integration -- to which the invited foreign minister, the Vice-Prime Minister of European Integration and the representative of the President's Office will be discussed, at last, the fundamentals of foreign policy, our interaction with NATO, with the European Union, Africa and, above all, our interaction and our policy towards Russia. In recent times, many different statements have been made both by officials and by politicians who call themselves different formulas.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u8	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u9	Different formulas with different Ukrainian names and others, which are really followed by fog and incomprehensibility. The Voice faction requires a clear policy, which means a desire for peace, at the cost of what we're going to do. Because so far it seems that there is a great suspicion, whether knowingly or unconsciously, that it is simply a matter of losing the sovereignty of Ukraine. The Voice faction calls for a very balanced approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u10	Svoslav Ivanovich, I apologize, but the rules. Ivan Ivanovich Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u11	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. In fact, we have entered the budget process of Parliament, and on September 15th we have a government budget for 2020 for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What is the country’s budget? The country's budget is expressed in the figures by the government's philosophy of how it will manage the country that will be adopting programs for people who will be funding first-hand. In this Parliament, I have seen several budgets and I can say that if you analyze the budgets for 2018, 2017 and the budget that was introduced in 2019, there is nothing different. So this is a budget that's not actually prepared by the new government, but that's what I understand. I'd just like to say some of the budget parameters so we can understand what we're talking about. For example, in the 2020 budget, GDP is projected to rise by 3.3 percent in 2020, 3.6 percent in 2021, 4.1 percent in 2022. I have a question: Where is 40 percent of the GDP increase that Prime Minister Goncharuk was talking about when he was appointed? We expected a 40 percent increase, but it's not. The second question. The issue of the subsistence minimum, which affects the level of pensions, the level of minimum wage, the tariff levels for workers in the entire budget area. The minimum wage is raised by 62 bracelets. Even though it was calculated by the same Cabinet of Ministers, it would have to be 4 thousand 251 bracelets. So the Cabinet of Ministers himself says that for a living minimum that's in the budget that's twice as low as it should be, people can't really live a month. Another moment, the minimum pension, which as of January 1, 20, is set at 1 thousand, 638 dollars. And according to the Cabinet itself, it's going to be 3,000 and 94 bracelets. Here's the question: Is it the end of the poverty era, or is it the continuation of why people in the elections of the past actually expelled and voted for new power? What should we do now? Now there's one option for us to do. If we really understand that the Cabinet of Ministers, after the government’s programme of activities to fulfill the commitments made to the elections, is planning to submit a different budget, in principle another, that will actually raise social standards that will actually meet those requirements and those commitments that were made by the authorities when they went to the elections, this project should be sent for work, not to be afraid.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u12	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u13	And let the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, along with the government's work programme, present a new draft of the State Budget Act, which will really include parameters that people can live by, that will include tariff cuts that people are waiting for, that will include raising social standards that are critical to Ukraine, and that will have a real income base when the offshores are closed, and the money will return to the Ukrainian economy. This is the concept that we as Fatherland propose, and the only real chance we have to go to have a balanced budget, and a budget that will support Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u14	Ivan Ivanovich, colleagues, I very much appeal to all: stick to the rules. We're fighting pretty hard. Vakarczuk Svetoslav Ivanovich, "Golos" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u15	Yeah, that's my word, I was handed in earlier. I'm short. So by continuing to talk about the meetings of the two committees today. Since this is an open meeting, I invite all the desirable national deputies to attend it (it will take place today at three o’clock on the sixth floor, on Sadowy), as well as journalists. And let's talk together in open mode about who's saying things in public anyway, how and what we can say, how we're going to choose words. And most importantly, what is our common position with regard to such a highly sensitive issue as compromise or non-compromise in matters of the rapid conclusion of war? Like all Ukrainians, we want peace in Ukraine. But peace on our terms. And we understand that diplomacy often requires silence. But silence and concealment are two different words. And peace and reconciliation are two different words. We do not need concealment and reconciliation at the cost of humiliation, we need victory, and we need peace on our terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u16	Thank you. The word is given by Coltunovich Alexandro Sergiyevich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u17	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I would certainly like to address both our citizens and you, colleagues, about the draft budget that was introduced for 2020. I want to pay attention to what's important. Of course, the budget and tariff issues are interlinked. And what do we see in this budget? First. On the one hand, the budget proposes to increase the minimum pension by 74 bracelets. Think of it: 74 bracelets will increase the minimum pension from January 1st! Against this background, the government is proposing to reduce the amount of subsidies allocated for municipal services, reducing the figure from 55 billion dollars to 47.6 billion dollars. But the logical question is, Did you, perhaps your colleagues, lower our tariffs or perhaps our government also lower our tariffs? If you're reducing our citizens' subsidies, which means that not only will the amount go down, but the number of subsidies. So in this connection. This is the first moment. One second. The Opposition Platform for Life faction in the matter of tariffs just proposed a bill of Law 2126, which also defines economic mechanisms for lowering gas prices at least twice, which means that there should be a revised heating tariff and hot water supply. Then, under these conditions, the partial reduction in your number of subsidies, it seems logical. But without that, without reducing the tariffs, the reduction in the number of subsidies seems antisocial. This is the first moment. And the second point is, no less important, about drivers of economic growth. Of course, colleagues, we have already said about the budget that this budget actually repeats those budgets that were in previous years, which means that these are budgets, not development budgets, but food budgets. For example, I want to draw attention to the debt issue. All of us are always told, colleagues, about what we need to return external loans. This year, and more specifically, in 2020, 438 billion dollars goes towards servicing and returning previous loans. But we have over 383 billion dollars in the income section of the budget, and that almost 40 percent of the income part of the budget is formed, first of all, by new borrowings again, and that's the worst rule that was saved from the previous budget. Next, third, on the effectiveness of the results and activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Our Governing Council worked in such a way that no new economic mechanism was put into budgetary policy next year. What does that mean? That those two weeks that were spent were ineffective. We need to change the principle of a new economic policy, fiscal policy in order to form an economic basis for raising social standards in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u18	Thank you. The great Sergey Anatolyovich, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u19	Good afternoon, colleagues! Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Sergey the Great, Luganshina, 112 constituency. Today I want to address the President and Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear Volodymira Alexandrovich and Alexia Valeriyovich, please intervene in the solution to the problem and take personal control of the situation at the First Telecommunications Company, which provides heat in the city of Mountain and Gold Lugansk region to prevent the break of the heating season. The problem is that the owner of the enterprise's original documents and 70 percent of the production capacity, along with the assets of the enterprise, remained in the uncontrollable Ukrainian authority of the territory. Thus, the company cannot use the legal instruments that operate in Ukraine's controlled territory to sign contracts with NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" and to provide the population with warmth. Please intervene immediately because the heating season is imminent. The people who live in the area of separation have already suffered enough distress. Ladies and gentlemen, I have prepared a parliamentary request for the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Therefore, I ask you on Friday to support and vote so that you do not seek a way out of the situation when it is inevitable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u20	Thank you. Kostuk Dmitry Sergiyovich, "Slut of the People" faction. Let's have a word with you. Prepare Bragar Eugenia Vadimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u21	Thank you for the opportunity to speak. Dmitry Kostuk, 65 majority district, Novograd Wallinsky, Baranowski, Pulinsky and Emilchinsky. I'm in the middle of a budget process. It's very important that in this budget we have foreseen the cost of, indeed, the necessary costs. And it's equally important that we control how these costs are spent. In particular, the draft budget envisioned an increase in costs for defence and security, which is correct. Defence and security spending is projected at 5.4 percent of GDP. But it's important that not only costs go up, it's that money is actually spent on the things that it needs to be spent on. In particular, I ask the National Deputies, especially representatives from the Budget Committee, to pay attention to the need to anticipate the cost of military medical facilities, such as the restoration of the work of the Novograd Wallin Military Hospital. Novograd Volinsky is a military city where out of 56,000 people, 13,000 are military: it is either war veterans, IMF veterans, active military personnel. Two are based in the city. A separate regiment, two separate brigades and 30th, is now a legendary 30th individual mechanized brigade whose fighters fought for Debaltsev, the Battle of Gorlovka, Rubižna. 250 soldiers were killed on the battlefield, 1,300 seriously injured. In Novograd-Wallin region alone, there are about a thousand ATO disabled people. And with all the fighting from the Novograd Wallinsky region, which has to be treated from other parts of the county, going to the only military hospital in Zitomir, which is in a difficult condition. Fighters who have lost their legs have to undergo periodic medical examinations to support the disability group. At the same time, Novograd Wallinsky has a military hospital, a hospital that was opened in 1937 and existed until 2013. He saw the need, he existed. In the 13th year, the Minobran budget was 15 billion dollars, last year 100 billion dollars. During the fifth year of the war, this hospital has not yet been restored. In the 13th year, it was closed down, all the equipment was sold, all the medics were released, but the hospital is still, the building, the four-story building, it's huge, it's in good condition, it's better off than in the same Zitomir. It stands and counts on the Mino Defence Balance, nothing happens to it. It's a nice place by the river in the woods. In spite of the slogans of "Armiya." Language. Faith."which was only on whiteboards, the funds did not provide for military medicine. Costs went to the diagrams, to the diagrams of the Ucroborprom and the others we know.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u22	Colleagues, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u23	Thank you. Please note that there is not enough military medical facilities in Ukraine to support our military personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u24	Thank you. Bragar Eugene Vadimovich, "Serial of the People" faction. Get ready for Sofia Romanovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u25	Good afternoon. Bragar Eugene Vadimovich, "Serial of the People" faction. On more than one occasion in the last days, there was an active discussion as to whether or not CFCs should have been dissolved. But let me remind you why the C.V.C.A. was disbanded. In the past, the CLTC has repeatedly committed violations, and on numerous occasions there have been arbitrary treatments of the law, which are undoubtedly a violation of the law and a violation of official authority. The Central Election Commission was delayed to announce the results of the parliamentary elections, which took place on July 21, 2019. It should also be noted that this composition of the CEVC was the last elections almost destroyed when the Saakashvili Movement of New Forces did not register. Then there was the court’s decision, and then they did not want to put it into effect. That is why I would like to ask you to stop the active political speculation on the issue of CLTC and to submit your nominations for the new composition of CLTC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u26	Thank you. Fedia Sofia Romanovna, faction of European Solidarity. Alexeiovich Honcharenko
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u27	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, north of Restoration. Dear friends! Indeed, today's most important issue, in fact, as in any family in our country, is that we begin our consideration of the budget, the budget of Ukraine for the following year. And here we see, you know, a very interesting thing: the crazy discrepancy between what they're telling us and what they're actually setting up. See, when a candidate for Prime Minister Alexei Honcharuk spoke from this rostrum, he actually named only one figure in his speech, which he as Prime Minister is going to make -- that's an increase of 5 percent of GDP next year. Next, seven, and in five years, 40. We've all heard that. But 5 percent. Then there's the State Budget project, and what do you think the figure is? 3.3 percent is GDP growth! Maybe someone would say, well, 3.3 - 5 percent, that's different. Dear citizens of Ukraine, this difference is tens of billions of dollars! Where did they go? Why does the Prime Minister promise us 5 percent, and then it turns out that he is making a completely different budget?Oh, my God! Let's look at the priorities that are in the new power. We've all heard in the elections, the Green team has told us that we're going to have an increase in teachers' salaries up to $4,000 a month! We've all heard that, especially the teachers, they're waiting for that decision. What Did the Educators Really See? Increase in education costs at inflation level. So in fact, no real bracelet raises the pay of an educated person. Moreover, last July’s government adopted a tariff network that envisioned a substantial increase in education salaries. There's no money for that in the State Budget. Expenses at the Ministry. In fact, spending on the Ministry of Defence, actually spending on the National Guard, they're at the level of last year. What did the cost go up? Of course, the Office of the President of Ukraine. Instead of moving from Bank's, as we were told, to some open offices, where everything would be cheap, simple, and we'd have the President's Office actually, well, you know, maybe a little bit more than the 95-quarter office. Instead, we see that everything goes wrong: the office goes up, costs go up, and we see priorities. If it's for defense or for national security, it's either growth or education, and it's the money they love. We're not going anywhere with these priorities. And sooner or later, people will experience a huge difference between the rhetoric that today gathers 80 percent of community support and the real things that they have not yet experienced but will definitely feel. So I'm asking you to keep your promises until it's too late, we're ready to help you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u28	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u29	And indeed, make the budget what Ukraine needs today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u30	Thank you. Kniażicki Mikola Leonidovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u31	Dear friends, this morning, I was approached by representatives of the film community, hundreds of Ukrainian directors, actors, performers, representatives of public organizations working in the field of film, who are urging those people who are engaged in humanitarian politics in the Supreme Council and in government to meet with them. The film industry is outraged by attempts to manually manage the film industry, by trying to undo the results of the eleventh pitching, or the recent book project competition. The film industry is outraged by the fact that Ukrainian cinematographers are denied a government subsidy in the form of rebytes. This is just one of the problems that exists in our humanitarian field. Literally, on one of the committees yesterday, I was sent to work on a bill on media transparency and media financing. On our committee, they said it was difficult for the industry to perceive. Instead, action is being taken to maintain the monopoly of the so-called Zeonbud provider again manually, only to take it into your own hands. Actions are being taken to reverse transparency in the appointment of members of the National Board’s national regulator on television and radio. All these steps are a direct testimony to the collapse of the processes of freedom of the owl and democracy in our country and to the European principles of development. I'm asking Minister Borodiansky, the head of the Supreme Council's profile committees to meet with representatives of the film community and discuss how the Ukrainian cinematographer will develop in the future, which in recent years has indeed reached great heights. You don't have to destroy him right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. People's deputies, requests to take their seats. There were two factions asking for a break. Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u33	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the honourable colleagues, I would like to address the key issue: it is a matter of shaping the agenda. I wanted to remind you that last week, all the factions' heads and heads of the group insisted that this week's first question should be addressed in the agenda of the issues they were. were not included in the first meeting. Why is this so important? First. The rules of the Rules require that the Committees consider matters only those that are included in the agenda of the day’s session. And so, in another way, these questions cannot be considered. Moreover, each faction and group has asked dozens of questions, including the question of the formation of the income and expenditure portion of the budget. So, for example, from the "Paternity" faction, there's a whole series of issues that form a minimum level of living, a minimum pension, an income part that relates to the completion of the key standards directly. Without that, we can't look at the budget. Therefore, it is a very big request, Dmitri Alexanderovich, to carry out the decision that we have made with you. The apparatus has all the questions of order of the day, let's include them. The Committees and Committees will continue to recommend or not recommend specific issues. This is just as important for us because there are a number of rules that apply both to land reform and to medical reform. Without this, MPs will be deprived, and whole factions, right to have their own perspective and to submit these bills. Therefore, a request: If not today, tomorrow morning to form the agenda of the entire session and continue to give the committee a commission to consider it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u34	Thank you. Sergei Vladislavovich, we really talked about this. And now we have started our work today on the question that, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules, the committees will consider these issues and we will then bring them into the order of the day session, the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been handed over the draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 10.09.2019 on the adoption as a whole of Ukraine's draft law on the special procedure for the removal of the President of Ukraine from office (for impeachment) (registration number 1012-P). We need to consider this Order. The word for the report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Princely Mikola Leonidovich. Mikola Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u35	Dear friends! If you promise peace, it's not surrender. If you promise to make a mandate, and if you click, it's not an apology. And if you promise a law on impeachment, it's a law on impeachment, not a law on impeachment, which has been passed to the Supreme Council and against the law has been voted. Why Contrary to the Law? I don't even touch those serious violations that, because of this law, don't make it impossible to impeach, and the President just had to sign the Law on Temporary Commissions that he has if he really wanted it to be possible. According to part two of article 114 of the Rules, after the adoption of the bill on the basis of the Supreme Council, it is possible for the Supreme Council to decide on the adoption of the bill as a whole subject to compliance with the requirements of the Rules provided for in part four of article 102. The Supreme Council, however, was in breach of the norm. According to a decision of the Supreme Council, the final adoption of the bill, in addition to drafts, codes and bills containing more than 100 articles, paragraphs, is permitted immediately after the first reading, if the bill is recognized as not requiring further elaboration and if there is no comment on its content by the national deputies of Ukraine, other subjects of the right to legislative initiative, legal or expert departments of the Supreme Council. During the consideration of the bill in the session hall, members of the people commented on the contents of the bill. However, the vote raised the issue of the recognition of draft Law No. 1012 in such a way that it did not need to be redrafted and the adoption of the bill as a whole was put to the vote. Both decisions are supported solely by members of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Contrary to the requirements of the Rules, the law was passed immediately in general, which, among other things, deprived the national MPs of the possibility of objectively considering the matter and making a decision that would be appropriate to society’s request. In accordance with part one of article 48 of the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure, decisions of the Supreme Council may be revoked by the Supreme Council until the corresponding act is signed by the President. In view of the investment, it is suggested that the decision of the Supreme Council be revoked.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u36	Give me 10 seconds to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u37	of September 10 on the adoption as a whole of the Ukrainian draft Law on Special Procedure. Guys, if we don't do this, because we're all presidents, we're all in.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u38	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u39	Then we'll all be in our Italian villas. Our experts from Minnesota, who will be on their way to the Venice Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u40	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the committee for a report on the Rules, MPs, and organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich. I would like to remind you that the issue is being addressed in a simplified manner, according to article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u41	Thank you. Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! It was quoted in part in the first article of article 48. Nevertheless, decisions of the Supreme Council may be revoked before the act is signed by the Head of the Supreme Council, not by the President. Now, on September 13, at its meeting, the Committee reviewed the draft Supreme Council Regulation 1012, which is proposed to cancel the decision adopted by Parliament on September 10, this year, on the adoption as a whole of the bill of the Special Procedure for the removal of the President from office (impicment). And during the consideration of this draft decision at our committee meeting, the national MPs expressed their comments, their proposals and all of a sudden adopted the conclusion and decided to invite Parliament to determine how to vote on the adoption or rejection of the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u42	Thank you. Please register by faction: two for, two against the performance. Bondarev Constantine Anatoliyovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Master Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u44	Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u45	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I spoke from the Supreme Council's rostrum during the discussion of this bill before it was adopted and reminded us of the presidential election of President Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Zelenski, who spoke of the need to abolish the castes of the untouched in the country and create equality for all. I want to remind you that by law we had three castes intact. These are the national MPs, the inviolability of which has been removed since January 1st already, we have voted for amendments to the Constitution that have been signed. The second caste of the untouchable is the judges, whose inviolability is removed by the Supreme Council of Justice. And the third untouchable in our country is President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine. It was in order to remove the inviolability of all in his pre-election programme that Greensky promised to submit to Parliament a bill to remove the inviolability of the President, the deputies and the judges. If you remove the integrity of the President, no impeachment procedure is necessary. If you make changes to 105 articles of the Constitution and cancel the President's inviolability, then everything will be simple and clear: The President will become just like any Ukrainian citizen. I think that's what the presidential candidate promised during the election, and that's probably what we should go to. But the Law on impeachment is definitely not the law on equality, it's the law that we have in the land of untouched castes, that we have judges that we have a president who today cannot be drawn into the ordinary procedure for committing a criminal offence. That's why I think the Fatherland faction will support all initiatives aimed at limiting the inviolability, but we're going to insist that we keep the electoral promises and make changes to the 105th article of the Constitution by cancelling the President's inviolability and making the President equal to all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u46	Thank you. The word is given to the Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich, faction of "The Servant of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u47	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I would like to point out that Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky, in his pre-election programme, promised that a law would be adopted to remove the President from office in the order of impeachment. Throughout the Constitution of Ukraine since 96, the Supreme Council of previous calls has never been able to pass this special law, despite the fact that this is a direct requirement of the Constitution of Ukraine. Article 111 explicitly states that the President is removed from office in order of a special procedure — impeachment. In order to implement this procedure, it is necessary to clearly regulate the establishment of a special interim investigation committee, the legal status of special prosecutors, special investigators, requirements for these categories of persons, and so forth. It is for the purpose of making the procedure that is now enshrined in the Constitution real from the point of view of the mechanism for its implementation and proposing this bill: The bill on the removal of the President from office in the order of impeachment for today is absolutely in line with the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, the reason is to question its relevance. There is no efficiency for today. As for the global question of what, in fact, should all be equal in the country. This was repeatedly stated by President Vladimir Zelenski, and this constitutional working group, more faithfully, in the framework of the legal reform commission, as I have said on several occasions, is working on complex changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, where this issue will also be resolved. So there's no manipulation. The President is fulfilling his constitutional duties, fulfilling his constitutional pre-election promises, and the Servant of the People party is fully supporting the President's initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u48	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, dear friends. Unfortunately, we see objects not as they are, but we see objects as we are. And we, my friends, are not writing laws under the individual president of the acting, no matter what his name is, we've been writing laws for decades. I wish we could write laws for a century. So obviously, this impeachment law is what we consider to be, and we remember that any authority is vulnerable. The nature of man is that he is in power, that he has the temptation to enrich himself in this power, the temptation to usurp this power. And it's obvious that we should always remember and establish such safeguards in any law that relates to the separation of rules in power, and that law is important to the Law on the impeachment of the President. We remind you that alongside the President's Law on impeachment, article 105 should be corrected, which my colleagues have already talked about, which concerns the full integrity of the President, should be limited to the integrity of the President as an office, not a specific name. We're talking about what the Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry should be, which deciphers the Law on the Impeachment of the President, because we understand that, God forbid, after the President of Greens a man will come who wants to usurp power, such a mechanism of restrictions on the President and the lifting and removal of the President by impeachment will never be applied in this Parliament, because Parliament can be manually, and 338 votes will never be found in it. Dear friends, let us not think of the first day, not of the first year of Parliament, but of the next decades. Yes, I think we're being demanded by our voters and democracy in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u50	Thank you. Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The decision that our political power has drawn up concerns two blocks: the first is a violation of the law, and the second is really the body of the law itself. It is very important that the title of the law always correspond to the content. All previous speakers have shown that this is not the case. Unfortunately, the Law on impeachment is the law on impeachment. Our political power has always been that Ukrainian legislation should be based on European Union legislation and developed countries. So, my friends, in all the countries of the world, the impeachment procedure is foreseen through the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry in Parliament. And so once again we call upon the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appeal to President Greensky to have the TSC Act, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, signed, adopted, and adopted by the Constitutional Number of Fellow Members of the Eighth Call. It is important to remember that this law then united the hall. Indeed, the Law on impeachment should not be about the surname. Today there's a new president, he has great trust in society, but it's an institution law. And it's very important that we see here, not double standards, but a common standard of how to base the legislative removal of immunity from different totally different categories and institutions of power. Well, about the procedure. Indeed, this law was unfortunately passed immediately in general with the violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We remember that this day has also become the day of such emotional performances, including a controversial speech that I have allowed myself in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But, my friends, I fully agree that Parliament is not a place where the language of hostility can be used. But this must be a place for discussion, where most people primarily respect minorities and realize that our right to change legislation is due to an amendment, through an alternative, through a word. I want to bring Oleg's words here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u52	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u53	Shadows, who said he'd returned to a country where everyone's fighting with everyone. I think it's a terrible diagnosis that you and I have to fix together. Our enemy is right in the Kremlin, and let's go around it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u54	Thank you. Lozinski, Voice. Let's move on to the vote. Oh, no, the Opposition Platform will still be there.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. I just want to remind you of one thing. Those who supported the Law on impeachment, who voted for it? It was one non-fractional MP and it was the only faction -- a fraction of the majority. Why did this happen? Because this law was passed in violation of the Rules, which was very cynical and harsh, it was knee - to - knee fractures and nothing else. I want to remind you that impeachment is primarily a tool in the hands of the opposition and in the hands of factions that don't belong in the majority. And in this way, we have no right to make similar decisions in our Parliament. Therefore, we will be sure to support the implementation of this bill by another procedure. Yesterday, one bill, which also wanted to vote in general, 400 rights, 400 rights. This bill has not been able to be finalized, it needs to be reloaded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u56	Yuri Pavlenko, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u57	Dear Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! "The Opposition Platform for Life" supports this decision. We believe that the bill relating to the President's impeachment should be repealed because it was adopted with a grave violation of the Constitution and the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure Act. But I have one question, in particular, for the leadership of the Supreme Council, and for most of the Supreme Council. So what have we won from the fact that this law was passed in such a dirty way a week ago? It's still not signed, and it's been blocked. Why the Rules could not be adopted according to procedure, and then no one would have the claim and problems that this law was approved in a way that violates the Constitution and the laws. In addition, "The Opposition Platform for Life" insists on abolishing and presidential integrity to the full because the law does not decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u58	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u59	Unfortunately, this law does not solve the problem of restricting the President's integrity and impeachment, but makes it impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I would like to vote against the Supreme Council decision of 10.09. 2019 on the adoption as a whole of Ukraine's draft law of the Special Procedure for the removal of the President of Ukraine from office (impicment). Please identify and vote. [[10:58:34]] For 101 Against 14, holding, 249. The decision is not taken. Let's go to. Show the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 3, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 35, "European Solidarity" – 24, "Fatherhood" – 1, "For the Future" – 1, "Voice" – 18, "non-factional" – 19. The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been handed over a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court (registration number 1025). The report is given to the head of the Committee on Anticorruption Policy of the Krasnosil Anastasia Olegni. Anastasia Olegovna! Dear colleagues from the committee, please invite the committee head to the report. Anastasia Olegnowna, I think you can have coffee at the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u61	I'm truly sorry, colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Anti-Corruption Policy has considered Bill 1025 for the second reading and proposes that the House support this bill in the second reading and in general, colleagues. I'll remind you what this bill is about. The purpose of this bill is actually to unlock the work of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. This is a bill that will allow the Anti-Corruption Court to focus exclusively on high-level corruption. Without this bill, the Anti-Corruption Court will be blocked by thousands, colleagues, I emphasize, by thousands of petty cases, and people just won't get the justice they're waiting for. I'm sorry, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u62	Quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u63	People just won't get the justice they've been waiting for for for over five years. You and me, colleagues, we can't let that happen. And accordingly we need to adopt a bill that will allow the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court to focus on high-level corruption. The committee received 16 amendments to the bill, five of which were recalled by the authors and 11 of which were considered by colleagues. I emphasize that these are the amendments developed by the committee. These amendments are supported by representatives of at least four factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And according to the state of affairs for now, the bill is fully ready for adoption in the second reading. I'll point out, colleagues, that the amendments that we're proposing for the second reading are strictly technical. We're actually doubling into the Criminal Code the norms that were adopted in the bill in the first reading. And then, colleagues, we sort out the question of how long it takes to get this bill to work and these rules. That's an entirely technical question, colleagues. Finally, we organize some issues, such as: what to do with the underhandedness of cases of unified conduct, what to do with the jurisdiction of cases in case of a change of qualifications in court. So, colleagues, once again, the bill is, in our opinion, ready for adoption in second reading and in general. And, colleagues, we very much ask that this bill be supported in order to finally give people justice about the high-level corruption that they have been waiting for for for so many years. Thank you very much, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u64	Thank you, Anastasia Olegna. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, during the drafting of the draft for second reading bill, all the amendments proposed for consideration were taken into account by the committee. Coming out of it. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare yourself and take your seats. Faction colleagues, please prepare. Since all the amendments were taken into account by the committee, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court. I offer to accept it in the second reading and in general. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Is everyone ready to vote? Faction, please. Please prepare for the vote. Please support and vote. [[11:04:48]] For 323 Against five, holding on to 13. The Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court (registration number 1025) was adopted in second reading and in general. Show the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 230, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 22, "The Fatherland" – 19, "For the Future" – 19, "The Voice" – 18, "the Non-Factional" – 15. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been handed over a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to reduce the pressure on business (registration 1080). The report is given to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on the law enforcement of Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u65	Good afternoon, honourable chairman, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedural Code on Business Pressure Reduction (Registration No. 1080 of 29 August 2019), which was adopted on 10 September 2019 as a basis with a reduced preparation for second reading. The bill aims to eliminate the practice of applying article 205 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine as an instrument of abuse and in a way that does not meet the purpose of criminal responsibility. A brief reminder of the content of the law. Amend the Criminal Code to exclude article 205 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which criminalizes the creation or acquisition of business entities of legal persons for the purpose of covering illegal activities or carrying out activities prohibited. The second is to increase the amount of actual non-compensation in the tax budget, in the congregations, in other mandatory payments to establish signs of criminal offences as provided for in article 212 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. A committee on law enforcement prepared the bill for second reading. The bill received 5 amendments, which were discussed at the September 17, 2019, Committee meeting. Of these, 4 are rejected, 1 is supported. The committee thus approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill No. 1080 on second reading and generally as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u66	Thank you. Please remain on the rostrum, Alexander Sergiyovich, because we will now be following the amendments, and we may need to discuss them. Amendment number one, National Deputy Speedhod. The edit was rejected. Are you insisting or not? Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u67	Cannot initialise Evolution's mail Next. Amendment number 3, Nekludov. The edit was rejected. Unscrupulous, are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u68	No, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u69	Amendment number four, Cymbaluk. The edit was rejected. Are you insisting? One minute to go, Tsymbaluk, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u70	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, colleagues! In fact, the "Fatherland" faction voted in favour of the 1080 bill on the first reading. And indeed, we think that Article 205 "Physical Entrepreneurship" needs to be eliminated. But with regard to the amendments to article 212 of the Criminal Code, we believe that it is premature to raise fines of between 3,000 and 5,000 untaxed minimums. Because if we're talking about reducing the pressure on business, it's just raising the fines on entrepreneurs and on small (medium) businesses, it's not. We think we should leave the previous edition where the fines are much lower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u71	Alexander Sergiyovich, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u72	Yes. On the issue of amendment No. 4 of the National MP Tsimbaluka, I would like to point out that your bill here does not apply to the amount of the fine, it sets the amount of the amount of the costs required, i.e. the payment of these non-payments. Therefore, I believe that the fine is not the subject of discussion, since the fine does not apply to the size of the fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u73	National MP Tsimbaluk, are you insisting on your right or not to vote? Turn it on, please. No, no discussion. Are you insisting or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u74	I insist. I think we need to make this right out of the voice about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u75	No, we're not going to make a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u76	As far as the fines are concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u77	Then I ask for Amendment 4 to put her to the vote. And I'd like to ask the people's deputies to identify themselves. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:10:20]] For-21 Against 51, holding, 181. The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the next one. Amendment number 5. People's deputy Yatzenko. Declined. Are you insisting? Don't insist, thank you. We've been through all the repairs with you. Therefore, honourable national deputies, if so. I propose to move to a vote in favour of the Act amending the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedural Code on Business Pressure Reduction (Registration No. 1080). I offer to accept it in the second reading and in general. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[11:11:36]] For 347 Against 0, hold on to 5. Decision taken. Please show by factions: "Serve of the People" – 234, "Occupy Block" – 22, "European Solidarity" – 20, "Fathership" – 14, "For the Future" – 20, "Golos" – 17, "non-factional" – 20. The Act on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedure Code on the Reduction of Business Pressure (Registration No. 1080) was adopted as a whole. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been given a draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to reduce the number of commercial activities subject to licensing (registration number 1050). The report is given by Fedianek Alexandre Pavlovich, deputy head of the Digital Transformation Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u78	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, fellow MPs! By order of the Digital Transformation Committee, I present before the second reading a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the reduction of the number of commercial activities subject to licensing (register No. 1050.) The draft law proposes to replace the licensing of telecommunications activities with the provision of a message to operators operating in the telecommunications sector about the start of activities. The bill was adopted as a basis for a shorter preparation period – September 10th this year. On September 17, at its evening meeting, the Digital Transformation Committee considered Bill 1050 for second reading. Sixteen rights and proposals came from the national deputies to the bill. At a committee meeting, 13 rights were taken into account, and one was taken into account in an editorial way. The adoption of legislative changes will allow a simple and effective mechanism to initiate activities for operators wishing to engage in telecommunications activities and bring Ukraine’s legislation closer to EU legislation. As a result of the review, the Digital Transformation Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a bill on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u79	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to law enforcement. Just a minute. First rejected committee. Amendment number 9, National Deputy Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Are you insisting on your right? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u80	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I see the main amendment that the committee has supported, and I thank the committee. Where we've talked about that if there's incomplete information or information that's not confirmed, the controller can pull this company out of the register, get it out of the register completely from the list of companies that provide that information. I'm sure that this law needs to be supported, and we've already talked about how it deals precisely with the issue that this area has been facing since 2015, when under the laws of deregulation we haven't been able to reconcile the Telecommunications Act, and this sector, the whole range of companies, they're getting licenses today and they're continuing licenses and so on, and they're even paying for it. So I suggest we support it. I thank the committee for taking into account my basic revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u81	Thank you. Alexander Pavlovich, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u82	Thank you for your attitude toward understanding. We've also really taken your edits into account. So once again, I appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept changes to the law in force in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u83	Vadim Eugeneovich, would you please insist? Don't insist. Amendment number 15, also National Deputy Ivchenko. Do you insist on this? Don't insist. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the vote. Please prepare for the vote, national MPs. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the reduction of the number of commercial activities subject to licensing (registration number 1050). It is suggested that we accept it in the second reading and in general. Honorable People’s Deputies — Are They Ready to Vote? If so, I'll put it to a vote. Please support and vote. [[11:17:06]] For 349 Against 0, hold on to 0. Please show us in factions: "Serving of the People" – 230, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 20, "European Solidarity" – 22, "Fathership" – 19, "For the Future" – 17, "Voice" – 18, "non-factional" – 23. Decision taken. The Act on Amendments to Certain Legislations of Ukraine on the Reduction of the List of Economic Activities that Are Licensed (Registration No. 1050) was adopted in general. Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u84	Good day, dear fellows, I'm a few announcements while we're still preparing our lead. First came the head of the Supreme Council of Dmitr Razumkov. "I inform you that on Friday, September 13, my card did not work when voting for the resignation of the CBC, please count my vote against. With respect, Irina Heratchenko." Next. Several announcements about the creation of interfractional compounds. First. This is in accordance with article 60 with the "prim" badge. I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Interfractional Association of the People's Republic of Ukraine. The headquarters of this union are the national deputies of Ukraine: the Synthequet of Oleg Mihajlovich, Batenka Taras Ivanovich, Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna, Tistislav Jaroslavovich and Cimbaluk Mikhail Mikhailovich. Beautiful. Welcome to the next IFO. Next. Pursuant to article 60 with the "prim" badge. I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth interfractional parliamentary association "Ternopolščina" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of this association were elected by the national deputies of Ukraine: Kalaur Ivan Romanović, Kubov Stepan Ivanovich, Tsabal Vladimir Vladimirovich, Tchaikovsky John Adamovich, and Gevk Vladimir Leonidovich. Welcome to Ternopil. All right, I'll finish the rest. I'll hand it over to Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u85	A little later. I suggest we move on to the next issue of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been given a draft of Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Priorities of Parliament's Environmental Policy for the next 5 years" (registration number 2088). We need 150 votes from Ukraine's national deputies to address this issue under a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[11:20:06]] For 288 Against 4, hold on to 29. Decision taken. Let us move on to the issue of the simplified procedure. The report is given to the Vice - Chief of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use by Marikovsky Alexander Valeriyovich. Where's our jeweler? The head of the faction, please ensure the presence of the national MPs. David Georgiyovich, Marikowski Marikowski. Well, a man's birthday today, I think he can be excused.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u86	Congratulations, colleagues. Thank you for your welcome. Friends, what we usually see in Hollywood movies about the future is already part of the creation of our hands with you. The picture is mostly cheese, metal, and a thick layer of dust covered with ash. In these films, nature is brought to other planets. What have we done with it? She's been taken out. And now imagine one day of life in modern Ukraine: illegal mafia diggers have sent a ton of solar amber to China; Mariupol, Curve Horn, Zaporozhye, Dnipra have thrown tons of dangerous substances into the air, and environmental inspectors have not been allowed to check; a dozen wagons of valuable wood cut in Carpathians under a sanitary section have crossed the border with Poland, and instead no new trees have been planted. The policy of continuous development. The whole point of this policy is to pass on to the next generation no worse conditions than we have with you here and now. Vladimir Zelensky at his inaugural talk called for unifying all the Ukrainians of the world, but would they be able to unite in our territory, would they return to the country of environmental distress? It's enough to look at 17 entire United Nations development, and you can understand that the introduction of sustainable development is not a human restriction, it's a chance of a normal future for future generations. On September 23, the UN summit on climate issues is held by world leaders, and on September 20, an international climate march is held. Let's do it here, and now let's do our contribution to the preservation of the climate. I initiated parliamentary hearings at which we will set priorities for Ukraine's environmental policy for the next five years. I believe that on November 27, you and I are with experts, government representatives, scientists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u87	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u88	In fact, we're going to be able to make, we're going to make, we're going to make these priorities. Please support and vote on this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u89	Thank you. Two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in front of the factions. Pashkovski Maksim Igorovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u90	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Dmitri Luboto.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u91	Again, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u92	Please pass the word to Dmitri Luboto.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u93	Dmitri Lubbott, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u94	Dmitry's love, 177th District. Globalisation and the requirements of collective environmental security for national development, the need for Ukraine's integration into the European Community and its functioning in the European Economic Security System require the modernisation of state environmental policy. Already our generation is beginning to reap the fruits of the barbaric attitude of human civilization toward the environment. And global warming is just the tip of the iceberg's environmental problems. For example, in Germany, where ecology is the priority of public policy number one, a study of 2.5 thousand children between the ages of 3 and 17 revealed 11 kinds of poisonous plasticizers. What about Ukraine? For example, in my 177 constituency in Kharkiv, the city and village will soon sink domestic and industrial wastes and so virtually everywhere. So we finally need to move from talking about environmental problems to solving them in people's interests. That is why I support the holding of parliamentary hearings on Parliament's environmental policy priorities for the next five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u95	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, "The Fatherland" faction. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u96	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, we can no longer justify the gaps in environmental policy and live by post-Radians standards. We have to accept these challenges, and we have to respond effectively. I want to remind you that in the anti-rejecting countries themselves (there are 15 of them) Ukraine's number nine. And these problems, we can actually say, are: polluting air, land, water resources. Colleagues, the President’s hometown of Krivi Rig, fall into the yellow snow. Winnickin’s pollution of the Ross River results in appropriate insecticides that are now used to cause mass destruction of fish. Colleagues, there is an ecological catastrophe in Dniper. The river is polluted, and garbage islands are formed in separate places. Because of pollution, the water in Dniper can be salty, just think, the Samara River today, which falls into Dnipro on the Dnipropetre, has 4 bits of salt, and the Azov Sea has 12. What will happen in a few years? In the town of Marganca, Dnipropetrov district, a garbage dump burned for almost two weeks in a row. Colleagues, in Uzina, near Kiev, are suffocating, unable to raise children. Children suffer from oncology because businesses that work there do not directly meet environmental standards. Kirilovka resort, colleagues! In the Milky Lyman Strip, there is a household waste range. And a lot more. We need to respond adequately, and these parliamentary hearings need to show how authorities and authorities should have responded or should have responded to such challenges. We support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u97	Let me finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u98	Colleagues, we support this decision and we will participate actively in the protection of our country's ecology and in the production of appropriate standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u99	Thank you. The word is "European Solidarity" to Frez Irina Vasilovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u101	Mikhailo Bondar. Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today the issue of Ukraine’s environmental policy is extremely relevant and urgent. On the basis of the EU-EU Association Agreement, an active phase of environmental reform has been launched in our country, including through the implementation of relevant EU directives, which are a mandatory stage for implementing this Agreement. The issue of civil protection, the elimination of technological emergencies, and the negative impact on the environment caused by the armed conflict in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions are particularly acute today. The sinking of mines leads to the release of mined water to the surface, pollution, and poisoning of groundwater. There has been constant destruction, contamination of fertile land by the dispersion of chemical substances, the ruptures of shells, mines, bombs, and the destruction of their storage sites. No less catastrophic is the situation at present and in the occupied Crimea, where the release of unknown substances at the Crimean Titan chemical plant in Armenia is affected by the north of the occupied peninsula, as well as by the border Hersonian. This situation presents us with a number of challenges that need to be addressed quickly. Parliamentary hearings will have a united role for society and should lay the foundations for the development of appropriate legislation, the introduction of an effective state environmental policy strategy. In view of this, the "EU" faction supports Decree 2088 on parliamentary hearings with a view to defining the environmental policy of Parliament for the next five years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u103	Thank you. The word is given by Coltunovich Alexandro Sergiyevich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u104	Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, surely we will uphold the decision on the priorities of the environmental policy of Parliament for the next five years. But I would like to draw the first reporter's attention to the fact that it is not just necessary to speak for abstract things, but for real concrete examples that are happening today in Ukraine. Because if we're talking about climate change, this is a completely applicable issue, which applies to all regions of Ukraine, especially in the dry southern regions, and this is where the issue is already resolved: stimulating the water-milior sub-complex. If we're talking about Euro-Integration, it's also not abstract stuff, it's specific directives that aim at improving the quality and consumption of drinking water and air and many other things. And most importantly, to finish. If we really want to increase the level of environmental security, world practice is next. We need to form an economic stimulus pillow for the introduction of modernization processes. Without that, we're not going anywhere. It's a world practice, it's a world experience. And we have in Parliament, first of all, to propose fiscal mechanisms that will stimulate implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u105	Thank you. Pippa, Natalia Romanovna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u106	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! As a forester's daughter and mother of two, I want to draw attention to all of us, who doesn't know that now the world's unique environmental situation and carbon dioxide levels are the largest in human history. And Ukraine won't get away with it. And it's great that we're developing an economy and we've already adopted a lot of laws to stimulate it. But we are very concerned that the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Energy is united today. This practice usually leads to negative changes, particularly in Africa. We warmly welcome these parliamentary hearings. Above all, we call for the practice of implementing and raising the level of environmental security in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u107	Thank you. The word is given to Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich, MP for the Future. And then we go to the vote, I warn the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u108	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The parliamentary group "For the Future" will vote and support parliamentary environmental hearings. And I want to tell you that as a group of national MPs elected in one-maned constituencies, majors, we face environmental problems every day. And we want to bring one huge problem to Parliament. Especially in areas where the most polluted are both Donetsk and Luhansk and Herson and Odessa. But when the State Budget Bill for 2018 was voted out, in 2017 we took the environmental tax that is included in the district budget from 55 percent to 30 percent. And we had a paradox, where the biggest environmental problems were left with the least money left. So let's say that if we vote in favour of parliamentary environmental hearings, let's make it clear when we vote in the 2020 state budget, that we understand how much this is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u109	Give me 10 seconds to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u110	What a huge problem this is, and we're going to return the environmental tax to 55 percent of the district budgets that they're dealing with on the spot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u111	Thank you. All those who wish to speak, let's move on to the vote. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Priorities of Parliament's Environmental Policy for the next 5 years", which will take place on 27 November 2019 (registration No. 2088). I propose to vote and to take this decision as a whole. Everybody ready? Please support and vote. [[11:34:37]] For 359 Dear colleagues, the Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Priorities of Parliament's Environmental Policy for the next 5 years" (registration number 2088) has been adopted in general. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. It was 359 versus 0. Hold on to 0. Decision taken. Please show me the factions. "People's Servant" – 234, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 28, "European Solidarity" – 23, "The Fatherhood" – 18, "For the Future" – 16, "The Voice" – 16, "the Non-Factional" – 24. Thank you all. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Security of Journalists in Ukraine: Status, Problems and Ways of Resolution" (6 November 2019) (Registration No. 2129). The word is given to the Head of the Freedom of Speech Committee, Schuffrich Nestor Ivanovich. Excuse me, Nestor Ivanovich, wait, wait. I would like to consider the above-mentioned summary order. Please support and vote. [[11:35:56]] For 277 Against - 2, holding - 32. Decision taken. The decree will be considered for a reduced procedure. The word for the report is given by Schuffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u112	Thank you. The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, this question has something to do with the beard, it's left to us from our fellow Ukrainian national deputies of the previous call. Two years ago, the National Association of Journalists of Ukraine took the initiative to hold appropriate parliamentary hearings. And I want to thank my colleagues members of the committee that are positive from. have received this information and, accordingly, the initiative. On November 6th, if it's our will now, we can hold appropriate parliamentary hearings, and without any exaggeration, I think it's time. What is the main problem that we have already faced, which we are analyzing? Of course, every time a journalist is attacked, journalists lose their lives, close relatives, and colleagues lose their loved ones as a result of these attacks. And then there are appropriate reactions, sometimes adequate, instantaneous, and sometimes answers that we don't know about right now. I had the privilege of being personally acquainted with George Gongadze. And to this day, I have more questions than answers as to what really happened there, even considering the actions that followed with regard to the Puchach. I was also acquainted with Paul Sheremet. I believe that it is a matter of the honor of all Ukraine to answer the question of who blew up Paul. Journalists turn to law enforcement agencies and warn that there are threats. Sadly, though, in most cases the only response is to attacks. I hope that all of this can be analyzed, spoken and recommended to minimize the possibility of attacking journalists and ensuring their safety.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u113	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Two in, two in, two in, two in factions. Mikisha Dmitry Sergiyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u114	Please pass the word to Eugenia Bragar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u115	Who? Brother Eugene. Turn on the microphone of Bragar Eugenia Vadimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u116	First of all, I want to talk about a situation that happened recently on our committee. As a national deputy, and later as a committee, I was approached by a Montenegrin journalist, Igor Stach. Igor told us that he had been threatened repeatedly. Life threats, health threats, and rape. And he was also attacked with a beating. The thing is, it's a shameful practice that has to be finally stopped. That's why our task as a committee is to review state policy approaches in the area of freedom of speech and to do more at the preventive level. That is why our task will be to combat expressions of suppression of freedom of speech at a time when journalists are threatened, not with the consequences themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u117	Thank you. Volosin Oleg Anatoliyovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, today some of our colleagues have shouted very loudly that burning private property belonging to one of the former officials is a major problem for our international image. I'm sure it's a big exaggeration. The law enforcement agencies are doing some work and there will be some results. But what is a real problem that undermines confidence in Ukraine as a country in which democracy and respect for human rights are mass and unsolved crimes against journalists. This issue is being discussed at the level of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in the European Parliament, raised at the level of the UN, at the level of various embassies and various international organisations. The situation in a country where journalists can be killed, set on fire to TV channels, threaten them with a misplacement, deprives us all of the possibility of claiming that this country is indeed claiming to be European. Because freedom of speech is not a general condition, it is a fundamental priority on the basis of which democracy is built in any country, regardless of whether we like what journalists write or show certain television channels, or not. This issue on September 9 was about the safety of our journalists, discussed on the Human Rights Subcommittee of the European Parliament for the participation of a special representative of the European Union for Human Rights. And if this situation is not supported by the Supreme Council, it will be strange that there is more willing and more willing in the European Parliament to work for the safety of our journalists than in our Parliament. I hope that's not true. I am convinced that our colleagues, representatives of all factions, will support these hearings, and we will finally be able to move forward in the investigation of all resonant crimes. Above all, to tell those who believe that journalists can be threatened, that such people do not belong in our society, journalists are a priority, and we need to protect them all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u119	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriyovich, MP. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! The MP Group for the Future certainly supports the draft decree on the holding of appropriate parliamentary hearings. We want to point out that, as you know, there is a Freedom House international organization that defines each year the so-called index of democracy, the democratic and non-democratic countries in the world, based on the signals that come to Freedom House and the various international organizations from one country or another. And Ukraine in this index of democracy in the graph of "partly free country, country repressed." So the signals we give in terms of respect for citizens' rights and freedoms, in terms of dealing with the media by officials, are far from comforting and insufficient for us to think that we are a free country and to the end of a democratic country. We note that this year the UN monitoring mission analyzed, analyzed the state of respect for the rights and freedoms of a citizen, and noted a significant increase in the involvement of media workers, physical assaults, intimidation by a number of subjects, and expressed its concern. We note that in 2018, 258 criminal investigations were initiated by investigators of the National Police in Ukraine, including 176 conducts under the Ukrainian Criminal Code, 171. But only 26 such cases were brought to trial. Our country. Our law enforcement system does not and does not fully defend journalism and freedom of speech in Ukraine. So, of course, such parliamentary hearings are clearly needed, our parliamentary group is voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u121	Thank you. Goncharenko. Sumar Victoria Petrovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u122	It was fair to say here, fellow Members, that our committee, on a previous occasion, had approved the decision to hold such parliamentary hearings. Unfortunately, they were not carried out, and obviously the date of November 6 is very successful, since in the world of November 2nd, it is actually a day to prevent impunity for crimes against journalists. And what do we have today? Let us make such an objective assessment so that these hearings are not just about talking but about having consequences and producing results. At the legislative level, the format for the protection of journalists is good enough in Ukraine. Because we are supposed to be criminally responsible for obstructing the professional activities of journalists. We have no criminal responsibility for defamation; we are in this respect absolutely in line with European standards. Where do problems arise? Problems arise on a chain called the Ukrainian law enforcement system, which very often does not investigate or even cover crimes against journalists, or even deliberately conceals them from investigations. Since it has to be understood that a journalist’s job is specific, what is it? Journalists are watching the authorities, and the most common conflict is between the authorities and the journalists themselves. And of course, power in this situation often covers itself. So we think that now I would like to add by voice that these parliamentary hearings should be attended by the representatives of the professional law enforcement agencies -- both the Attorney General's Office and the National Police -- who will say why we have so few sentences in 171? And one more thing, it's a judicial system, because the verdicts are handed down, and there's also a lot of nuances that need to be corrected. Judges have to explain what they lack to actually have punishment for crimes against journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u123	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich, a minute of motivation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u124	The "Fatherland" faction no doubt supports such parliamentary hearings, because in our view it is very important not just to make a formal decision, but it is very important that these parliamentary hearings end with recommendations for professional committees. And it's not just the Committee on Freedom of Speech, it's also a committee that regulates the activities of law enforcement agencies in investigating and raising the status of journalists and protecting them. Perhaps, indeed, the only ones who can claim protection in this state, even in constitutional law, are journalists. This is also important from the point of view of judicial practice. There is now a very important issue in Berdjansk about the murder of Sarmat Oleshka activist. There are 11 defendants who have two dozen lawyers who break down court proceedings, threaten judges, and threaten prosecutors. That's why we're talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u125	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u126	That making changes and complementing our discussions on parliamentary hearings will be a very important principle of protecting journalists and this profession.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, and then we go to the vote. Please be prepared by the National Deputies. Please turn on the microphone from Shahov's motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u128	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, we will certainly support this draft decision, and this is very important because the predecessors have not done so yet. But I would like to point out that the unproven case of Catherine Hanszük is not proven in two years by Sergey Samarski, who was killed in the middle of the day in the city of Severodonetsk. I've repeatedly claimed that killers sit on local councils and rob hundreds of millions of dollars, in a district where there's a war, there's no infrastructure that's being built, and it's being robbed in black. This company is TAOL, which is what Samarski found. Gas theft, power theft. This is all on the shoulders of those who took the mayor four times. So I'm asking you to pay attention today to all the elements of the force that can be investigated on hot leads. We will support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u129	Thank you. Let's get to it. No, it's not. From the faction was a performance, Nestor Ivanovich. We move to a vote on the draft Resolution for Parliamentary Hearings on "Security of Journalists in Ukraine: Status, Problems and Ways of Resolution" (6 November 2019) (registration number 2129). I suggest we take it as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Ready to vote? Yes. Please support and vote. With Sümar's offer. [[11:50:06]] For 335 Against 0, hold on to 0. Decision taken. The decision to hold parliamentary hearings on "The safety of journalists in Ukraine: the state, problems and ways of solving them" (registration number 2129) was adopted in general. Thank you. With suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, I will inform you of the announcements that have reached the presidency of the Supreme Council. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Buymester, said, "Please register at the September 18th meeting because the card did not work during the registration." Well, that's it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know, I'm just announcing it, I have to announce it, guys. Dear colleagues, announcements. Pursuant to article 60 with the "prim" badge. I'm reporting to the Supreme Council on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the Interfractional Business Watch. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Petrovich, was elected head of this association. There's another interfractional one. Business-Warta. Next, next announcement. Pursuant to article 60 with the "prim" badge. I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "Kyrovgradšina". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Danuzu Alexander Anatoliyovich, was elected head of this association. Welcome to Kirovgrad. Next announcement. Pursuant to article 60 with the "prim" badge. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine report that creation is being created. Excuse me, I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth invocation of the Interfractional Blackprint Union. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Anton Eduardovich, was elected head of this association. Welcome to Montenegro. And the final announcement. Pursuant to article 60 with the "prim" badge. I'm reporting to the Supreme Council on the creation of the 9th Interfractional Inter-Personnel Association of Friends of Ivano-Frankivska in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Savichuk Oksana Vasilovna, was elected head of this association. Hello, friends of Ivano-Frankivsky. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. Please be here at 12:30 sharp with us continuing our session.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u131	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We're continuing our meeting. We are now considering the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on the Amendment to the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on the Prevention of Double Taxation on Income Taxes and on Capital and the Protocol thereto, done in Kiev on 30 October 2000 (project registration number 0004). Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to sit down, because we need to consider addressing this issue with a reduced procedure. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the issue of a brief procedure for the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on the Amendment to the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on the Prevention of Double Taxation on Income Taxes and on Capital and the Protocol thereto, done in Kiev on 30 October 2000. I ask you to put it to a vote and I ask you to support a simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. Please. [[12:38:00]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the report of Deputy Finance Minister Helletius Igorovich. Please, Yuri Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u132	Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies and present! Your consideration is proposed by the draft Act ratifying the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council amending the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on the Prevention of Double Taxation on Income Taxes and on Capital and the Protocol thereto, done in Kiev on 30 October 2000. I would like to point out that the draft Law has been prepared to carry out the internal State procedures necessary for the protocol to take effect in relations between the two countries. In accordance with article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the protocol is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The specified protocol for amending the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on the avoidance of double taxation was made in Davos on January 24, 2019. The provisions of the said Protocol meet the requirements of the Model Convention of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the new standards of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the rules against the laundering of the tax base and the withdrawal of income from taxation, which include: an increase in interest rates and royalty from zero to five per cent; an addition to a new article on the improvement of the mutual reconciliation procedure; and an increase in the exchange of information mechanisms. I would like to point out that the implementation of the draft Law does not require additional budgetary funding. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u133	Thank you, Yuri Igorovich. I invite the head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, Jaremenko Bogdan Vasilovich, to take the floor. Please, Bogdan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u134	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, at its meeting on 16 September 2019, discussed the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on Amendments to the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on the Prevention of Double Taxation on Income Taxes and on Capital and the Protocol thereto, done in Kiev on 30 October 2000, and endorsed the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ratify the protocol. The purpose of the draft legislative act is to ratify the protocol. The conclusion of this protocol is explained by the fact that changes to the existing agreement have been agreed by the Swiss party in the negotiation process. Such changes relate primarily to: increasing interest and royalty rates; expanding the ability of the parties to exchange tax information and other issues. Ratification of the protocol will contribute to the further development of mutual economic relations with the Swiss Federation and to increased cooperation on taxation with a view to creating conditions that prevent tax evasion. According to an explanatory note signed by the finance minister of Ukraine, the implementation of the law will not require additional budgetary funding. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no objection to the ratification of this protocol. So, honourable colleagues, please support the committee's decision and ratify the proposed international agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u135	Thank you. Thank you, Bogdan Vasilovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the procedure of discussion. I'm asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please record the performance. I give the floor to the national MP from the political party "Serve of the People" of Svetoslav Andriovich Juras. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u136	I give the word to Oleni Homenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u137	Please pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u138	Honorable Presidium, honourable colleagues, at a committee meeting, we discussed the proposed draft law. Sadly, though, we had no explanation as to the situation that took almost 19 years to ratify the protocol. This situation obviously did not contribute to Ukraine’s image as an international partner, and as a result, Ukraine was under-appreciated by taxes on passive income, interest, royalty, dividends. This allowed unscrupulous payers to withdraw capital from Ukraine. We want to make this right, and we want to fulfill our obligations as a partner. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u139	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Olga Anatoliyev Stefanisin, the political party "The Voice."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u140	Please pass it on to Jaroslav Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u141	Give Jaroslav the Ironborn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, we often hear various calls to fight offshors. So here's this agreement, which gives us an additional opportunity to overcome exactly one of the tools of optimisation, or simply to avoid taxation, in our country. Unfortunately, it was signed a long time ago, and we may have ratified it before, but somehow it didn't. So let's still support it, and I very much hope that this Supreme Council and this convening will go much faster. And along with the implementation of the BEPS plan, and along with other changes to tax legislation, we're still going to close down those tax-optimisation possibilities that unfortunately exist in our country. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u143	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. I invite you to the words of National Deputy Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, the political party "European Solidarity". Please. Please tell Mary Ionova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u144	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to this ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council. We have ratified the Model Convention on Income Taxes and Capital, which is used by almost all countries of the world. And that was exactly the basis for negotiating bilateral tax agreements. And it was in 2018 that the government concluded negotiations with the Swiss side and agreed on the changes that were needed as a result of the convention. Ratification, therefore, means that the internal procedures are completed and that they become effective. "European Solidarity" will support this ratification. Because we're interested, really, in making a contractual basis, it was brought to the only world standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u145	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Aleksandra Sergiyovich Koltunović, political party "The Opposition Platform for Life." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u146	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I would like first of all to refer to the speaker who presented us with this draft law, and this is the Deputy Minister of Finance, about how we will have an economic impact on the implementation of this Protocol and its ratification of double taxation? Because there is some international practice and international experience that shows that this does not always contribute to that country, one country or another. And so in this case, it's important for us to understand what our economic interest is here, and first of all to understand what the economic impact is, first of all, for the national economy, second of all, for exporters, importers and end-users. That's the first one. Well, that's two. Of course, "The Opposition Platform – Life" considers the standard economically constructive, rational. And we will support it for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now. The discussion was concluded. Let's move on to the vote. I'll ask you to prepare all the national MPs. For the vote on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on the Amendment to the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on the Prevention of Double Taxation on Income Taxes and on Capital and the Protocol thereto, done in Kiev on 30 October 2000 (project registration number 0004). Are you ready to vote? Then I'll put it to a vote. And please vote and vote. Thank you. [[12:47:21]] For 307 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. Draft Act ratifying the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income and property taxes (registration number 0005). I would like to consider this law in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:48:07]] For 271 Against - 0, held - 35. Decision taken. Let us move on to the issue of the simplified procedure. The report is given to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Heleto Jury Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u149	Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies and present! Your view is proposed by the draft Act ratifying the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income and property taxes. The draft law is designed to implement the internal State procedures necessary for the protocol to take effect in relations between the two countries. In accordance with article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the protocol is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income and property taxes was made on 9 October 2017 in Kiev. The provisions of the protocol are fully consistent with the Model Economic Cooperation and Development Convention on Income Taxes and Capital, which, inter alia, provides for an extension of the term “resident” according to the Model Convention of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, provides for a new edition of the article on information exchange, a new article on assistance in tax collection, whereby trusted States assist one another in collecting tax debts. The implementation of the draft law does not require additional budgetary funding. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u150	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, Jaremenko Bogdan Vasilovich, for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, at its meeting on 16 September 2019, discussed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income and property taxes. And I decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ratify the specified protocol. The purpose of the draft legislative act is to ratify the protocol. The need to make it is explained by the fact that the negotiations with the Turkish side have agreed on changes that need to be made to the agreement. First of all, these changes relate to the clarification of the recognitions of the terms "resident of a treaty state", "dividends", "royalty"; clarification of the order of taxation of profits obtained by an enterprise of a contracting State from the exploitation of maritime, river, air vessels, road or rail transport in international tax refinements, exchange of information, etc. Ratification of the protocol will contribute to the further development of mutual economic relations and to increased cooperation in tax matters with a view to creating conditions that will prevent tax evasion. According to an explanatory note signed by the Minister of Finance, implementation of the law will not require additional budgetary funding. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council has no objection to ratification. So please support the ratification of this treaty. Colleagues, in order not to be left unanswered, if you can, for 20 seconds, the question of colleagues about. which came about when the previous instrument on the economic consequences of ratification was ratified. Well, according to available information, since the agreement was concluded with the Swiss Federation, the payment of dividends from Ukraine to Switzerland amounted to over $200 million in one best year. Thus, taxing them at 5 percent means tens of millions of additional incomes in Ukraine’s budget. So with the Turkish Republic, of course, these processes are still going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u152	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u153	We also expect serious enough revenue to be added to our budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u154	Thank you, Bogdan Vasilovich. Please register by faction: two in favour, two in opposition. Klochko Andriyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u155	Good afternoon. Please give it to Oleni Homenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u156	Olena Homenko, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, the same question arises with regard to the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Turkish Republic, because it was done in October 17th. So we spent two years ratifying. The objective of this protocol is to organize international relations between Ukraine and Turkey. And the conclusion of this breakthrough is explained by the fact that in the process of negotiations with the Turkish side, the changes that need to be made to the Treaty have been agreed upon. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u158	Thank you. The word is given to Ion's Marina Mikolayevna, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, "European Solidarity" will support this ratification. Because, really, it's very important that the position of this protocol is also consistent with the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development Model Convention on Income Taxes and Capital. So they predict the entire list that the chairman of the committee has already outlined in his statement. Once again, we will support this ratification. Because, in fact, the work lasted. And we will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u160	Thank you. The word is Gregory Nemiri, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u161	Thank you. Gregory Nemira, faction of Fatherland. These are the first two bills with a fairly large group of projects that relate to changes to conventions or agreements to avoid double taxation. In addition to today’s Switzerland and Turkey, there is Britain, there is Cyprus, there is Malaysia, and there are others. There are two aspects that the Fatherland faction would like to pay particular attention to. One is the principle of reciprocity. So that's what happens when the other side also does what the Ukrainian Parliament is doing today, which is ratifying these changes to a convention or agreement. According to available information, so far neither Switzerland nor Turkey are such things. She didn't come in. So we call on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, accordingly, to stimulate and draw the attention of the other parties to the need to speed up their respective internal procedures. And the second question, the second aspect, which also deserves attention, has already been raised. When the Ministry of Finance notes that the implementation and implementation of this bill does not require additional costs, that is not enough. We also have to evaluate, we insist, and what is the financial advantage, and in what tangible perspective, let's say, for the next financial year, the ratification of such changes will bring to Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I propose to proceed to the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. I am voting on the draft Act ratifying the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes and property is proposed for adoption in general (registration number 0005). Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:56:52]] For the 320. Against zero, hold on to one. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been handed over a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the use of nuclear energy (registration number 1084). I suggest. Edit number one, Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich. It was rejected. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Edit number two, Puskarenko Arsenij Mikolayovich. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Edit 3, Raducci Mikhailo Borisovich. Partially counted. Amendment number 4. Sorry, number five, Raducci. It's part of a new edition. Amendment number seven. Overruled. Raducci. Don't you insist? All right, all right. 8th for confirmation. Give me a minute, please, Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, number 8 was, in fact, the night before the committee and without proper publicity, and proper information to the members of the committee. It is, in fact, in violation of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but at the same time invites us to violate the Agreement on the Association of Ukraine with the European Union because it establishes discriminatory and opaque conditions for the sale of imported electricity. In fact, we recently adopted Appendix 27 of the Association Agreement, which allows us to integrate into the energy markets of the European Union, by the Supreme Council of the previous call. It's the same thing. This includes consultation with the European Union on our energy legislation. This amendment has nothing to do with the nuclear energy bill. Please place it for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u164	The word is given to Herus, the head of the committee of Andrew Gerus, the head of the Committee on Energy and Housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u165	Thank you. Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! This amendment does not impose discriminatory conditions, and it just removes discriminatory conditions. Because today we can import electricity from all countries either in advance or in direct contracts. What was previously prescribed in the law, I think the lobbyists did not prescribe in vain, for certain countries, especially Belarus, there is a limit that can only be marketed in advance. If we allow and remove this restriction to be direct bilateral contracts, it means that competition will improve in the market. This means that the local monopoly will earn less or that it will have to lower the tariffs. So if we want tariff cuts, we need to build competition. Besides, the other night I had a meeting with the Energy Community, and they were in such an easy shock, where this amendment came from and why it was in our legislation, because there are no more such rights in any country of the world. That's why we need to film it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u166	Okay. Let's put it to a vote. Please support and vote on this amendment. [[13:00:49]] For 239. Against three, holding on to 55. Edit is confirmed. Dear colleagues, since all the amendments have been made, we are going to vote in favour of the draft law. Have you forgotten something, Andry Mikhailovich? Oh, I'm sorry. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the use of nuclear energy (registration number 1084). I offer to accept it in the second reading and in general. Honorable People’s Deputies — Are They Ready to Vote? Then please support and vote. [[13:01:54]] For 265 Against two, holding on to 45. Decision taken. It's a bill. The law is passed in general. Let's move on to the next question, this is about getting into the agenda of the day session. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting on Improving the Procedure for Release and Appointment of Members of the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio (Registration No. 2036). The report is given to the head of the Information Policy Committee, Tkachenka Alexandro Vladislavovich. About the turn-on. About the turn-on. If we don't have to, we can just vote. About the turn-on. Let's vote then, please support and vote. About the National Council (2036), about the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. We're not going to be looking at it right now, it's about inclusion. The committee's being handed over, Your Honor, please support. I'm betting on the vote to be included in the agenda of the day session. [[13:03:27]] For 252 Against 4, hold on to 49. Decision taken. The bill amending the Ukrainian Act on National Ukraine on Television and Radio Broadcasting is included in the agenda of the daily session. Dear colleagues, you have been handed over a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to ensure the transparency of software providers' ownership of multi-channel digital television networks with national coverage (registration number 2035). It is also suggested that it be included in the agenda of the day session. I'd like you to support that. It's a motive. One minute, stop! Motivated by Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u167	Dear Mr. Head, the Fatherland faction insists once again, and we have asked you, we have the right to legislative initiative. Our faction has tabled numerous bills -- social bills, budget bills, budget bills, anti-corruption bills, as well as bills that we've worked on in the past -- that are transitional. We asked you all, without violating the rights of MPs, to put all of this in order of the day, to put all the laws in order of the day, we vote, and the committees continue to work. That's right. And you rule out one thing at a time. So I have a question: we don't have to ask now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u168	I'm sorry, I kicked your ass. Vadim Evgenovich, I repeat: the first question that was being considered today was that the letters came from the faction, the reverend faction of the Fatherland, as did the other factions. These bills will come to the committees, and the committees will propose to include in the agenda of the day session. And these bills, they're recommended by the committees for inclusion. It's a motive character.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u169	Thank you. Mr. President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in order for the committees to be able to consider these bills, we need to include them in the agenda so that it is appropriate for the committees to work on these bills. And in this case, we want to support the initiative of our colleagues with the request that the bills that minority factions propose to put into the order of the day session do not mean that we will consider them today, or even this week, but that we will include them in the agenda. And I'm also now drawing your attention, Mr. Dmitri, to hand out the tablet to the deputies, please listen carefully to those bills that you propose to include in the agenda. There are several bills, such as 0996, 0927. Sorry, 0926. We've already voted on these bills in general under other issues just last week. So here's the plate, let's get it analyzed by the apparatus, and let's put it in the agenda together.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u170	Irina Volodymyrna, and we are not discussing these issues today. This has been handed out by the apparatus before, but we don't put these issues in order of the day session, the ones you're talking about right now. Regarding the issue we began with, this is article 93, if I am not mistaken, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. After that, when they are processed by the committee and the committees propose to include them in the agenda of the day session, the committees will deal with these issues in substance. Therefore, respectable colleagues. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u171	Dear Mr. Head, I would like to join my colleague Ichchenka's wishes and pay attention to the priorities in choosing and shaping matters of order. We have 27 days before the start of the heating season, we have on Friday the first reading of the state budget, we have applied the pressing socio-economic problems that today are necessary and should be resolved by parliament, not the work of the government. So I'm calling your attention and colleagues by the faction, first of all, and by the end of the week, we're going to work in this direction to make it worth it to go into the heating period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u172	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Committees, I went to the committees this morning in the urgent format to process all the proposals that have come. Well, I can do it again for each faction, but let's not take this process too long, if you don't mind. That's why I'm proposing. Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u173	Thank you. Dmitri Alexanderovich, I don't need to say it again, I've heard it all, but I'm just drawing your attention to one important detail. When you're talking about that bill we're proposing to include, because it's got a favorable response from the committee, it's not an argument, with all due respect. Because even if the committee does not recommend the inclusion in the agenda, in accordance with the Rules you still have to include the agenda of the day session, and the session and only the voting session determine whether the project is in the agenda or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think I've heard of your position, I hope you've heard of mine, and we'll have further constructive work in this direction. If you don't mind, I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to ensure the transparency of software providers' ownership of multi-channel digital television networks with national coverage (registration number 2035) to include it in the agenda of the day session. is an approved committee decision. Please support and vote. [[13:10:02]] For 245 Against 0, hold on to 69. Ladies and gentlemen, we still have some announcements to read by Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, we have internationals. Oh, my God, interfractional MPs have increased again. And according to article 60 with a prim badge. The Supreme Council Rules report on the creation of the 9th Interfractional Economics Union in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. "NOW." The headquarters of this union are the national deputies of Ukraine, Bilkovo Olga Valentinovna, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, and Nataluh Dmitr Andriyovich. Welcome. Yeah, it's a serious committee. Oh, I'm sorry, a serious interfractional union. A serious interfractional union. There are also two other statements about counting the "yes" vote, it's from the people's deputy Vasilkowski, for the impeachment bill. He mistyped "for," so count as "restraint." And the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court didn't work out. Please count the "yes" vote for the decision you have made. And also from the National Deputy Tishchenka: I ask you to consider my vote under Law 0004 as "for." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-18-m0.u176	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, the agenda for today’s session is exhausted. And since there are a lot of issues to be worked out in the committees, we're going to have a busy day tomorrow, so I suggest we start working on the committees early. Thank you all. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
