ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u1	Good morning! I'd like all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please take up jobs. You're ready, aren't you? So I'd like you to run the registration. Please register. [[10:02:05]] There are 338 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session is open. Today is the birthday of our fellow national deputies, a large number of national deputies. To Yuri Alexiyovich Pavlovka Hello. Mr. Yuri, welcome. To Taras Timothy the Shepherd. Mr. Taras, welcome to your birthday. Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik. Mr. Paul, welcome to your birthday. Alexander Yuriovich Tretyakov. Mr. Alexander, welcome. And at Mikola Trochymovich Fedoruk. Congratulations, Mr. Mikolo. [[Applause]] Welcome to all the nouns. Good day. Colleagues, as well as today's birthday, John Stepanovich Mazepa. And many generations of Ukrainians have called themselves Mazepins, and today it is our privilege to celebrate his birthday. So, colleagues, before I go to the continuation of the Ukrainian Language Functioning Act, I want to report that, according to yesterday's analysis, I can conclude that some people's deputies are deliberately delaying the consideration of the law. We had a conversation with the committee head yesterday, and we agreed that the committee head would limit his speech in order to save time. Of course, according to the law, I'm going to be setting up the rules, the committee head may or may not speak, it's his legal right, and no one can force him to do so. And I'm asking my colleagues not to make artificial stretches of the Language Law. The law on language must be adopted, it is our duty, it is the historic responsibility of this calling of the Ukrainian Parliament. And no one will stop us, either the Kremlin or its representatives in Ukraine or in the Ukrainian Parliament. So, colleagues, right after the "Variance" we're going to go to the right-hand side, and I'm going to urge everyone to go as intensely and as dynamically as possible. Now, I remind you, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for speeches by national deputies, not by factions, but by national MPs. So I ask everyone who intends to take part in the discussion to sign up. Please hold the recording. Dusk's Alexander Valeriyovich, please. Debenkov gives the floor to Igor Shurma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u2	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear Ukrainian citizens, dear colleagues, I will now address those who are there, on the mountain that refers to the family of journalists, and explain why. Regrettably, there is more talk in that room that wants to popularize people, to talk about something better. Too bad, I want to do it today. I have to talk about death. But I have a choice to talk about. Today you can raise the subject of the death of a two-year-old boy who died yesterday from the complications of the bark, after last week's duty as Suprun came to Lviv and said that the measles were reduced by 60 percent after the special vaccination operation. The only person who can talk about such nonsense is a person who has no idea of the epidemic process at all. You can talk about the death of the editor of the "Acts" of Inne Žmud. This man -- he will confirm the story of her Olya Cervakova, who is my political opponent -- she in due course had an oncrowd and turned to the performer. to Deputy Minister Linchevsky, asking her to help her go abroad, put her in line, because in Ukraine this is not being treated. She said, "You're hopeless, you're not going." This can be confirmed by Olya Cervakov. And that's his motto, "It's cancer. They're all going to die," -- today is the subject of the Cabinet of Ministers' protection, which is sitting right here, and this person is not getting fired. But what I want to say is, today, I want to bring up an incident that took place on March 16th with the columnist, Focus, Svetoslav Sekunov. Because in Ukraine there is no law on emergency medical care at night to challenge him at a high temperature, in his history, in his illness an emergency came in, and they didn't hospitalize him. Doctors can be blamed, but today they use those recommendations that come from the Ministry: Do not hospitalize at the temperature. On the second day, he was only re-spitted in an 8th-city clinic where the absence of an ultrasound specialist led to the failure to diagnose the bleeding at the right time. He's dead. This was the result of the failure to implement article 7 of the Emergency Health Care Act on the relationship between the health services and health care institutions. This is a violation of the Ukrainian Emergency Relief Act, article 10, when the rehabilitation offices in these hospitals are not organized. We demand an investigation into this case and an appeal to the responsibility of officials who do not comply with the Ukrainian Law on Emergency.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u3	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, election elections, but life in Ukraine continues. And while politicians here are destroying each other, fighting in the wild populism, in the Chernobyl area in my 204 constituency in the Zastavnov region, they're destroying the last sugar combination in our area -- the Sugar Coat. After the change of owners, something earlier this week, representatives of a business company in the Donetsk region began to cut out the last sugar combination in the Chernivsky region. It is not enough that all the agriculture in the Zastavnov region was oriented towards growing sugar beet and that it was to be processed in this combination, that the workers of this combination and the peasants who were growing such necessary produce would now be out of work. The residents of Kostriživský OTG, where there is a sugar combination that is outraged by the events, are rightly thinking that the combination should work, there should be jobs. And the main thing is that he still has to pay back 4.5 million dollars in debt for a land tax that's been billed and hasn't been paid in three years in a row. At the site of the destroyed combination, owners plan to install a solar power plant. So instead of creating jobs and developing agricultural processing, they're planning to get profits due to the green tariff. So I can assure them, these deals, the "green" tariff law will be adopted in the second reading, and profit in the state account will go down, and it will go down substantially. I demand an immediate response from the Chernobyl government and the law enforcement authorities. Please consider my statement as a request to the National Fiscal Service in the Chernivecki region and to the Chernivetsk Observatories. I want to point out that by doing this, we force people to go abroad to earn money. We need to improve public policy and focus it more on creating and opening new jobs in agriculture, preserving the agricultural sector and reducing the flow of people to foreign earnings. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u5	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Dudenkov. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, you know the rule that the recording can only be done in person, and a national MP can only pass on the word if he is personally registered. If the national deputy Kiwalov has personally signed up, he may return to the hall and give you his word. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u6	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Ukrainians, we are all well aware of the importance of the language bill. And that's why these debates in society are unfolding, there are individual representatives of the "Russian world" and they say it's breaking society up, they're lying to someone who's not allowed to speak Russian or national minority languages, because they understand that Ukrainian cultural space is the foundation of national independence. Language is the foundation of culture, of culture and the basis of the desire to have a state of its own. That is why Russia has banned Ukrainian language at the national level 64 times. Catherine the Great, an empress who was German and who had already been baptized in Petersburg, accepted Christian Orthodox faith from Catholicism, and could normally not speak Russian, but protected the Russian Orthodox Church and protected Russian, and oppressed all other languages. Because she knew that language was important, that the language would be followed by her imperial state machine. I think no conscious Ukrainian can think and imagine in a terrible dream that Cadebist Putin is an Orthodox believer and that he is at night in awe reads by Lermontov, and cannot sleep without such beauty of a poetic composition. And we all understand that they are, and the political forces, the public organizations, are represented, unfortunately, and in Ukraine, that they are absolutely agents for the return of Ukraine to the Russian yoke. You can't let that happen. And I condemn what is happening in Parliament right now, when, in fact, the Language Act is not going to be adopted in the first round of presidential elections, and unfortunately, I'm going to make such a assumption that they're not going to accept in the second round, depending on the patriotic Ukrainians on what you're voting for as one of the favorites of the presidential race -- you're going to have a law, you're not going to vote, you're not going to. Instead, last week I offered not publicly to the leaders of the factions, and to the colleagues in the hall, and publicly addressed, to put to the vote the next proposal, as I stated yesterday, and addressed the Head of the Supreme Council. Regrettably, he failed to comply with the requirement of the Rules, for under part five of article 19, he may put to the vote a job without interruption and a job before the bill is concluded. I offered from Tuesday, yesterday, to go to Wednesday night, today all day, to review the amendments, and from Wednesday to Thursday go to night, and Thursday still to go to the approval of this bill. Everyone understands perfectly what is the farce of considering these amendments now, which will still be at the end of the vote before the head of the House Committee (thank you to him separately for his work; he is a good fellow) put to the vote, which counted, which broken the amendments, and we will accept in 15 minutes the bill in the correct edition, taking into account the amendments made by Kishkar, Lesik, Bilozer and mine. So I urge you to put to the vote today and to work all night, and tomorrow I will go to the approval of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u7	Thank you. 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u8	So we can praise him. After that, as soon as we approve it, in any case, we know which faction will register the decree in order not to allow it to be signed. We're going to need the next plenary week between the first and the second readings to break this decision down and send the President to sign. He'll win, he won't win, he'll take the second tour, and he'll do these duties by the inauguration. And we have a chance in April to have a signed Ukrainian language bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u9	Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u10	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! On February 5th of this year, I submitted a parliamentary appeal to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine for the sad statements made by Medvedczuk at the forum where he called for autonomy in the territory of Donbas with the creation of parliament and all other Kremlin demands. Such actions are classified under the current Criminal Code of Ukraine under two articles of the state of affairs for today, which is a violation of territorial integrity and integrity and treason. It has been 43 days since I corrected my parliamentary address. I sincerely hope that our law enforcement agencies are using this time for a high-quality evidence base that they would bring to justice and bring a Ukrainian citizen like Medvedchuk to justice, not to file this case. Why is it important that we not forget every act of assault on the territorial integrity of our nation? Because it's not just a matter of the Attorney General's Office, it's not just a matter of the Security Service, it's not just a matter of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the protection of sovereignty, the territorial integrity of the State, is the primary function of the State and the affairs of the entire Ukrainian people. That is why our firm position should move the law enforcement authorities to do their work qualitatively, investigate and hold the citizen of Medvedczuk accountable for the articles of treason and assault on the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our state. Every man who attacks our nation must be punished, must receive a term of imprisonment and serve as an example to anyone who comes to us with a sword. Whoever with him with this sword will come to us from the sword and perish. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u11	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u12	Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian public! As the adoption of the Ukrainian language bill is phenomenally delayed in the Ukrainian Parliament, a presidential campaign with a large element of cynicism is taking place behind the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. I want to pay attention on behalf of the Ukrainian Union of Patriots, from the Ukrainian Community, which cannot accept many of the facts of such a campaign, the vast network of counterfeiting and preparations for the purchase of voters, the use of an administrative resource that is now being used by the current authorities. Nothing can be justified by the cynical net that is now wandering the territory of Ukraine, because it's a spit in the eyes of the state, it's a spit in the eyes of democracy, the spit of Maidan, civil society. I'm already talking about these letters that are being distributed in envelopes from the Ukrainian Regional Development Councils, which are aspiring for the President-in-Office. I'm already silent, more loyal, I'm not silent, but I want to say about the number calls made by the authorities to the leaders of the united territorial communities who have just won, who are independent, in quotes, who are "independent" and who are convinced to sign for the President-in-Office of the District Councils, who, for taxes from the district budgets -- ladies, ladies, we don't sign, sign or don't sign -- give or don't give each one of the district budgets. That it's not a total "goody" of the coastal times, like at least the coasty times, like the pressure on the guides. the leaders of the various levels of counsel that were chosen by the people. I don't think such a social "goodyums" has anything to do with Ukrainian democracy and the acquisitions of Maidan that we've been through. I want to pay attention to something else. For days in the region of Lviv, and not only in the region of Lviv, proclamations have been published on the pillars — information materials that hinder the free will of citizens. In particular, these materials contain information that as of April of this year begins the appeal, it seems, for the duration of the military service. In this connection, on Saturdays and Sundays, on March 30 and 31st, citizens, including polling stations, will be checked and reconciled with the lists of citizens who are scheduled for military service. What is it like not to lower the appearance of the young people in these elections? What is it, not another spit in Ukrainian democracy? The electorate’s age is sought, the average of the electorate is forced to make a profit (that is, you have no money), and the younger one is intimidated so that he does not come to the office at all. There is no limit to cynicism to such authority in Ukraine. Don't be afraid.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u13	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u14	"Do not be afraid," said the Blessed Cardinal Lubomir Guzar. Don't be afraid, respectable friends, respected citizens, because you can intimidate units, you can intimidate hundreds and thousands, but you can't be scared all the time, and you can't be afraid of millions of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u15	Thank you. I invite you to the word of Sergio Sobolev, the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u16	Dear friends, yesterday's decision by the Pecher Court, when one of the ballabolas in this room is declared a liar with regard to the inconclusive information about Julia Timoshenko, I think it's too much to confirm where he built his electoral campaign by an active president. A lie, a lie, and another lie. And all this is happening in the face of the total poverty of people when it turns out that 20 dollars can change the will of citizens, you can imagine the state of the citizens of their own state! Then they went into a better net. Today, as the highest achievement, the information that turns out to be, in a number of areas, the unemployed get involved in social work -- think about it! – the distribution of postcards indicating how well the President works. Budget resources are still being used, and so are the unemployed, who have lost their jobs because of this authority, in order to directly engage in bribery. And all of this in the face of a total failure to fight corruption among all the Ukrainian law enforcement agencies when the cost of closing the case became known to society. When it turns out that even blood crimes do not become crimes, and these cases are not referred to the courts, and this is in fact once again a routine way of washing and bleaching the active authority. I think we've already reached the climax, but that's not true. When I literally saw a post in Facebook that decided to continue the distribution of our citizens now and on a national basis, I had a great desire against what appears to be "Christians and antichrists" in the country, who cannot even be presidential candidates, against what appears to be only one nationality, who can be presidential candidates, after actually anti-Semitism in this post of this "spore" which does not come from its channels, has become a state policy, I have a desire to accept Judaism. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u17	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u18	I think there's no other way to stop the division of the country, the division of the nation and the division of the nation anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u19	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u20	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our authority is completely hopeless of people and is constantly lying. One of the biggest lies that Poroshenko is talking about, and his parliamentary coalition, and his government, is that all Ukrainians are provided with subsidies and no one suffers from high gas prices. I meet people every day. These are the specific names of specific people who don't get subsidies that pay the last money for a utility that they have to cut off gas because they don't have money. Auntie Vasilovna, Morinci, Cherkaščina, cut off her own gas because she can't pay 1 thousand 600 dollars for gas each month. He doesn't get the grant. Lydia Mikolayevna Pushkina, Tsarichanka, Dnipropetrovist: For 30 years she worked as a librarian, a pension of 1 thousand 700 dollars, lacks the funds to pay for the utility. There's no subsidy. Galina Pavlovna, Tarosha, Kyiv Region: Retired, 77 years old At such an important age, I have to work to pay for the utility. He gets a minimum pension and a minimum wage. There's no subsidy. Ms. Lydia, Vladarka, Kyiv Region: A pension of 1 thousand 730, received a utility bill of 3,000 dollars. Eugenia Ivanovna Goriska, Plants, Ternopil region: 72 years old, disabled and groups, officials delayed with grant documents, paid the full price of gas for December, and pensions were not even enough for gas. The daughter holds two cows, there are no milk prices, and these two cows do not feed the family. Here are the real stories of real people. And there are millions of people in Ukraine. Gas prices are rising, utilities are rising, Ukrainians have nothing to pay for. So I gave the history of pensioners, and the working families, the working people, who had to give up everything they had to earn for the utility. And the authorities continue to lie to us that they have solved all the problems. They solve their own problems, they patch holes in the budget at the expense of the very needy citizens of Ukraine, not at their own expense. The head of Naftogazu Kobolev received a bonus of one and a half billion dollars, six million dollars each month getting paid. Whose account? They went into the pockets of every Ukrainian to pay off billions of dollars and take them off. Today the government is about to approve a new contract with Koboljev to head Naftogazu. One and a half billion dollars of the prize was stolen, not returned, and they want to continue the contract with him. I am now addressing the Prime Minister. With all the factions we go to you to Kabmin along with these people who are being robbed and suffering because of you. Try not to send people to Kabmin. We demand that Koboljev not continue his contract, that gas prices be lowered so that no more than 15 percent of the family’s income is paid for the utility. Everything else is at the expense of subsidies. Stop robbing people! We won't let you rob and fat at the expense of the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u21	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Kupreia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u22	Vitaly Kuprey, non-fractional, non-party MP. I would now like to inform you, dear colleagues, of Peter Alexiyovich Dustyenko's terrible schemes, how he wanted to drown in the blood of our Ukraine to remain in office indefinitely and to usurp power. I literally had a Skype interview yesterday with a man who used to work for Ukrainian intelligence. This is former warrior of the Azov Battalion, Sergey Sanowski, who told me how for a while he tried and tried to recruit him to do these terrible things. What are you talking about? Since 2016, at the request of Dustenka, General Alexi Petrov, the C.E.U.S.C.C.B., has been developing a plan to make here, in the center of Kiev, mass unrest, use weapons, destroy a number of patriots, and then clear the opposition field. Some people were involved not only in the Ukrainian Security Service but also in the Chief Military Prosecutor Anatoly Matios. According to my report, the direct intelligence major Alexander Podrov and Andrey Lisogor, the SBA advisor, the founder of the Club of Martial Arts, were trying to bring together a group of people and entrusted this to Mr. Sergei. Mr. Sergei was asked specifically to find 150 volunteers, ATOs, ATOs, who may not be feeling very well right now, perhaps having alcohol problems and offering them $10,000 each at some time (this is 2016-2017) to come out and warm up protests against the Dusty regime. After that, Lisogor told Sergei several times that there would be Alpha coworkers, and the 8th regiment of special assignment from Hmelnickin, waiting for these actions and starting a bloody massacre. They were to clean up all those who took and who had weapons. To this end, weapons were transported to warehouses in Hmelnickin to this regiment of special appointees. And later, part of that weapon took place in the case of Hope Savchenko. I think it was a conscious provocation that didn't happen. But then the security forces took another step -- discredit Saucenko and show us what kind of hero we have. In this situation, Sergei is hiding now, of course, at risk of death. He gave me all the details of this terrible disgrace. I have his interview on Facebook for about an hour. And I want you all to know what awaits us and can expect us if the people go out on the street and disagree with the forgerys. I think our only way right now is to mobilize everyone, not to let Dusty win, the so-called win, the fake win in the second round, or not even let him go to the second round. And then we're just going to ensure order in the country, and we're not going to have any.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u23	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the people's representative of Berezu, Borislav Berezu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u24	I want to address all Ukrainians, not their colleagues, unfortunately, they're busy with their affairs right now. Today, the first star begins with a large Jewish festival called Purim. This must be the greatest and most joyful festival of the Jews. You know, it's a holiday that Jews once saved when they were trying to destroy them, destroy them all together. The only thing that helped them was faith and what they didn't know at the time was that they were then united, that's what is now related to Ukraine with those times. We will never defeat our enemies, either outside or inside Ukraine, if we know what strife is. We'll never be able to beat either the Russian invasion or the fifth column from the inside if we tease each other's throats. So what am I calling for now? I call on one another: let us understand, the elections will pass, and we will live in Ukraine with one another. Politicians will continue to be reconciled, and they will not continue to fight. How will you live when you look into each other’s eyes when you are actually hostile? That's why I want to say, the only thing that can help us all and what helps us is that we're going to be together, that we're not going to fight with each other, that we're really going to be one people. And no man who tries to argue with us will win, not victory, but defeat. Because in Ukraine, in a multinational state, Ukrainians and Jews, Russians and Armenians, Belarusians and Poles, Azerbaijanis and Hungarians, and they do not oppose, it is the politicians who try to hit them with their foreheads. That's why I want to say that victory will be on Ukraine's side, that everything will be Ukraine, but only if we are together, if we are united and if the disunity is not settled in our heart. That's why I want to say that both Jews have a merry Purim festival, this is a victory celebration, and in Ukraine there will be a victory celebration over Russian aggression and stupidity distributed by some politicians. Thank you. With a holiday! Hag Purim Sameah!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u26	Thank you. And a closing statement, a closing statement by the national MPs. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u27	Thank you for the opportunity to come out of this high rostrum. Andry Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry, but I'm about to use these three minutes to contact you, because, unfortunately, you've left us no other options. Since 2016, you've actually got a bill in your drawer that was voted by almost 250 members of this Supreme Council -- Bill 1793. This bill, by strange coincidence, lays down 10 years of responsibility in the event that a person, or more specifically a group of people, is involved in the supply of non-quality products, including the Ucroborprom. An interesting coincidence came our way. Now there's a corruption scandal, a very loud one that now knows all of Ukraine and which is based on a situation where the "Golden Boys" were actually making war money, actually on non-profit production. And by chance, the Supreme Council has not signed a bill for three years that would have given them responsibility at 10 years of age if their guilt had been proven. Interestingly, after the vote, the bill was passed, Mr. Winnik was ordered to abolish the vote. In addition, Mr. Winnick’s determination is based on the fact that there was a nonpersonal vote. But after an interesting coincidence, Mr. Winnick was not on the Supreme Council that day. And it's very interesting how he, John, established that the people who voted and voted had an unpersonal vote. After that, Kožemiakin - I have an official answer, - more than 8 times during plenary sessions, in writing, during the conciliatory meetings personally, and I have asked that you make a decision in the Hall to finally vote and unlock the signing of this bill. You didn't hear that, you didn't know that. So it turns out that, by conspiracy, or by chance, today because of the actions and leadership of Parliament, and the particular person, Mr. Winnick, is blocked by a bill that would establish a serious responsibility, or perhaps deprive us of such corruption scandals. That's why I'm making a public appeal to you right now, Mr. Andrew. I ask you very much as soon as we finish voting for the Language Act, at last unlock the signing of this bill. Because the question of making money on blood, on military deaths, is a fundamental question for society. If you don't, we're going to think that you're involved in blocking this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u28	Thank you. Since I have been approached, I would like to inform you, Ms. Helena, first of all, that I am not even the Head of the Supreme Council for three years. It will be April 14, 3, as I am the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the extravagant statements that are echoing every week, I remember the last week convincing us to set up the Temporary Investigation Commission Act on Wednesday. If we'd put him on Wednesday, he'd have been ruined. He was appointed on Thursday and obtained the necessary number of votes. And unfortunately, these extravagant statements, they're more based on the effect of swearing than on actual legislative activity. So, colleagues, I want to let you know that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, when considering the bill, cannot be interrupted by any other consideration, no other consideration. All the decisions that we have, and we have a few orders after the annulment, and those that have not been taken under my headship, will be made after the Law on State Language. Colleagues, we've had a discussion with the Opposition Block on the grounds that they're entitled to three minutes from the previous day. They asked for half an hour's break, and I said I couldn't let it -- half an hour of real break. But we've come up with compromises that yesterday's three minutes apart and today's right of two factions to perform is six minutes without a real break. And the right to a real break for today is exhausted, exhausted. I mean, six minutes. After that. Please, 6 minutes, Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u29	Alexander Doubenkov, Opposition Block. Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, first of all, I am addressing you because this is the middle of the plenary. It is not clear what the Supreme Council has been doing for two plenary weeks. They're talking about how they're reviewing the Ukrainian Language Act, but it actually looks like it's kind of a stalling process. You know, because in previous events, very often this authority violated the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that they don't talk about their adherence to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, but we see a delay, in fact, in warming up the current President of Ukraine during his pre-election campaign. "Army. Faith. Language" are words that are constantly echoing from the media media under the control of the President of Ukraine. These are the words they want to fool you with. Because as they say, of course, they look very good, and during the election campaign, they are very bright. But what is behind them, and what is the real meaning that we can see behind them? Sadly, an objective reality is not good enough. Because it turns out there's a robbery and theft in the army. In fact, in their language they try, power is valid and coalition, to disunite society. By faith they also try to make some confrontation in Ukrainian society. That is, they enter the spheres of public life where peace and harmony have actually taken place. They'll plough on these things because there's nothing more to plough about. Why? The economic situation is catastrophic. In fact, Ukraine is in a deflationary state. Because government debt and government-guaranteed debt already account for more than 80 percent of GDP. This was not the case in Ukraine’s years of independence. GDP, which now accounts for more than $110 billion, so sorry, it was $183 billion in 2013. Because of the devaluation of the bracelets, you just destroyed this economy. You won't hear about it from the rostrum, because they're talking about the army, the faith, the language. And what else should we go to Ukrainian citizens during the pre-election campaign, during the presidential election, during the parliamentary elections? Instead, I'd like to pay attention to the level of social security that this authority is running, and they have a lack of insolence, an emphasis on saying that they've been monetizing the subsidy. Who raised the tariffs for the population? And the tariffs were raised by this government. The electricity was raised five times, the natural gas, it cost more than 790 dollars per thousand meters, and now it's going to cost about 10,000 dollars per thousand meters per thousand cubic since May of this year. Who raised the tariffs? This was done by you, a valid authority. And now you're talking about giving money to people. Who raised the tariffs on heating, water supply, and plumbing? It's all the result of your policy. Who actually raised the retirement age? This is also the result of your policy, which you call the so-called pension reform. I would also like to point out that when the Yatzenuk government actually brought all the authorities out of an uncontrollable territory in 2014, Groisman's government moved on. On June 8, 2016, a decree was adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on certain issues of social security for internally displaced persons. In fact, this decree deprived the pension and other forms of social security of more than 700,000 Ukrainian citizens living in uncontrollable areas. And the authorities say, well, you try paying for it in an uncontrollable territory. We're saying, yes, that's impossible. But by 2016, by the time this decision was adopted, people could have followed the collision line and received the listed types of social security in Ukraine's controlled territory through the banking system. What have you done? You've seen that the expenditure portion of this area is very large and you need to save the funds of the Pension Fund and the State Budget, subsidies from the State Budget to cover the deficit of the Pension Fund. And you're taking this antisocial decision, and you're telling people in fact that "we're only going to pay you when you live in controlled areas," by introducing a verification procedure. It's cynicism, it's an anti-constitutional policy, because it doesn't meet the standards of actual legislation. You can't put any social security payments depending on where you're actually being found, and you can't exercise State control over the state authorities that are not authorized to be actually these citizens in the controlled territory. This is a citizen of Ukraine, the right to a pension is a duty of the state. And this is actually the property of a Ukrainian citizen who, during his economic and active life, paid social and compulsory payments. Therefore, the Opposition Block is the only political force that will seek justice and challenge this anti-constitutional ruling in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u30	Thank you. Mr. Alexander, I have some classified information for you. You took a break from Opposition Block and Rebirth. And in parallel, while you were speaking, a member of your faction Papiew brought me a note, where more than 100 rights to confirm. National deputy Igor Shurma brought a letter, where more than a hundred were sent. The question is that we can work together not to delay consideration of the Language Law. Go back to the members of your faction, have a careful and thoughtful discussion with them about removing the requirement of all of those changes -- and then we will work quickly, effectively and in harmony. Now, colleagues, I will give the floor to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after which we will proceed to the review of the rights. Please, Oksana Siroid, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u31	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! I want to turn to us all and remind you that we are not living on the globe of Ukraine. And unfortunately, those discussions and those decisions, and the actions that are being discussed or approved in these walls or in the walls of other authorities, are far from real. And the reality is cruel and the reality is very dangerous, and this threat comes first from Russia. I would like to draw your attention to a recent speech by the head of the General Staff of the Russian Federation during a scientific and military conference where a statement on threats is actually addressed exclusively to Ukraine. Ukraine is not mentioned in any word, only threats are mentioned, but all that is said is about you and me. The Chief of General Staff of the Russian Federation threatens our critical infrastructure, threatens our terrorist attacks, threatens the safety of our cities, threatens our public order. What does this mean for us? That means Russia. This means, above all, that Russia has no intention of having any peace with Ukraine. And that also means that all those who today promise you a swift and joyful peace, or sold to Russia, or lie. What would the authorities have to do, for we choose authority to guard against these threats, what would the authorities have to do? First of all, the authorities should punish all those who have caused Russian aggression, including those who are in this room, safely, today. It should punish all those who today continue to prepare the same diversionary and terrorist attacks against the Ukrainians. The government would protect the critical infrastructure of Ukraine, primarily by expelling the Russian and Russian-dependent oligarchs, the authorities would protect Ukrainian cities, including by creating quality territorial defenses, and the authorities would build an army and fleet, not stealing from the Ukrainian army. Sadly, though, for five years the authorities spent pafousing talks, empty speeches, and further looting of the country. Sadly, though, talks will not protect the state or protect people, nor will any of the money that has been robbed here save you from responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u32	The First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u33	Dear Ukrainians! As the President responsible for the peace settlement at Donbassa for the past five years, I have been released 81 times from the occupation. And, you know, the last trip took place this Monday, I want to share the impressions and focus the attention of both the session hall and all the Ukrainians at very important moments. It is quite obvious that the cities that have been liberated and succeeded in these five years -- perhaps those who do not know it -- have succeeded in freeing the Ukrainian army, the Commander-in-Chief, 70 percent of the territories occupied by the Russian occupation forces, so these cities are now returning to peaceful life. And, you know, they're really looking forward to an election. Because in the 14th year, Donbas couldn't vote. This time on March 31st, Audiyuk, Krasnogorovka, Mariupol, who are located. The happiness that lies within a mile of the front will be voted on, and the voice of every representative of Donbas will be very important in choosing a democratic, European Ukraine. It's very important, my friends, that we have our first home-renewal programs today. Red Mountain: more than 30 houses that have been affected by enemy cities have today received programs -- 60 million to rebuild, and these first jobs begin. In Krasnorovka the school suffered in the 17th year, it was destroyed by the Russian City, and it is being rebuilt today. And you know what's very important in all the cities: in Austria, in Happiness, people are talking about people coming back from Russia, trying to escape the Russian Towns, in Ukraine, knowing that peace is coming back here today. These are very debilitating signals. I am curious to see presidential candidates who are in Kiev restaurants or in comfortable offices theorizing how they will rebuild Donbas, not once in five years without getting there. I'm curious to hear these discussions of some of the colonels who think that this B.S.A. included the first level of danger in Mariupola without even knowing that this first level of danger involved the F.S.B. and the Russian forces. And actually, I want to say that the only realistic plan for the restoration of Donbas is that of President Dustenk, his team that's been working on this for five years. The first is a political and diplomatic way of resolving the conflict. The second is the reinforcement of the Ukrainian army, and today we see this other army. And the third is, of course, after the elections: we are convinced that our partners are supporting President Dustenk's initiative to bring a peacekeeping contingent to Donbas with a broad mandate of temporary administration to help demilitarize this territory and prepare it for local elections. Dear Donbas, we will not betray you, unlike those who have not come to see you once in these years. Balls in the hall about how they'll, you know, return Donbas in theory. And we're doing it today. And we hope that Donbas will vote in favour of the European Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u34	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're continuing our consideration of the draft Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language. I invite the head of the committee of the Princely Mikol Leonidovich to the rostrum. We had a thoughtful conversation with him yesterday, and we agreed that the chairman of the committee would only comment on the most important amendments in order to make a more intensive consideration of the bill. In addition, there is no regulation as to how much time to add to the performance. I'm going to add up to 10 seconds, no more to complete the thought. So, I also want to say, I have a letter from Papiev -- over a hundred letters, a letter from Igor Shurma, and a letter from Pisarenko. And as you cross the line, we're going to give the word in turn, and somehow we're going to get along with each other, who's going to take the turn. Do you need a minute, or do you want to take it into account, Mr. Mikolo? Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u35	Thank you. So we continue to consider this bill on language. I just want to point out that the issue that we started during Maidan: building a strong, independent, European Ukraine – should continue to be clearly adopted by the Ukrainian Language Security Act as a national, supported by Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainian and cultural, supported by Russian-speaking citizens who want to live in a normal, democratic country supported by representatives of national minorities and indigenous peoples. Who's against it? Against those who want to preserve the Soviet Union, a possible return to Stalinism, who does not want Ukraine to cease to be a colony. These people are filing the papers, they're breaking the papers, they're stalling the bill. Anyway, we're going to accept this project, from Russia, we're going to tear the empire apart, we're going to become a full member of the European community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u36	So I want to remind you, we ended up at 657. And I give the floor to the German. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u37	Good morning, good morning, dear colleagues. With regard to the amendment of 657. I would like to remind you of the report on this law that we have in force today, the Declaration of Rights of the Nationalities of Ukraine is in force today, and it is in force today, the honourable report, the Law on National Minorities of Ukraine, which clearly states that they have freedom and are guaranteed to all nationalities and minorities the right to national culture, to use it and to teach it, to use it in their own language, and to use it, to use the media. And that's why we're proposing in this amendment, look, we're saying that the state guarantees, and that's also stated in article 10 of the Constitution, part of the third that the State guarantees use, look, there's no guarantee about the state language, because it's the apiori.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u38	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u39	And that's why I want this amendment to be accepted. And the last thing I'd like you to do is count what the legislation is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u40	Thank you. I'll bet you vote 657. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[10:57:14]] For-23 The decision is not taken. 659th. It's from Shurma, it's from Papiev. Who's it gonna be? Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u41	Thank you. The country's honourable national MPs, the respected TV viewers, the respected Ukrainian citizens, look, a very important bill is being considered, and we see that the reporter has left, or is not prepared for this bill, because there is no question of the Ukrainian national MPs to answer him, that is, there is no argument in him. By the way, that's very interesting information. I spoke to a psychiatrist yesterday, and I described to him the text of this law, and I said, "Here's your vision. He says, "You know, this law could only be written by a man who's got a lot of complexes: both children and teenagers, and adults, and he's got a bulling, and a lot of other things." I mean, my dear colleagues, I would very much like to have us write laws that first would be in line with the current legislation of Ukraine, and secondly, with laws that would not violate the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens, national minorities, to take account of the European Charter of Regional Languages and Languages of National Minorities. I'm asking for confirmation of amendment number 659.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u42	I'm betting on confirmation of the amendment 659, the committee supports it. Please vote. [[10:58:44]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 660, the author is the Prince. I'm sorry, there's an author.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u43	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Please, please. Please take my advice fully into account, since my proposal was that a hundred percent of the Ukrainian language on Ukrainian television channels be available to the audience. Please bet on confirmation. Please take fully into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u44	So I'm betting on the 660 vote, it's partially counted. Who's in charge of taking it all into account, please vote. [[10:59:30.]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Six hundred and sixty-six authors. I give Pisarenko and then Shurma the next lady. Please, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u45	Yes, thank you. Well, first of all, I wanted to make a note. Please. Reporter please, let us treat each other with respect. Even though we have different views on this law, I wouldn't say that all those who apply or act are not like that. There's plenty in this law of yours, a respected reporter, and they're mostly part of it. So let's respect each other. Regarding our amendments and our comments. They relate to the fact that the law does not promote Ukrainian language, but today it is "shaking" everyone in order to oblige them to use it. To date, 75 are in force according to the law. Dear reporter, I'm addressing you. Today, there is now a standard -- 75 percent, if I'm not mistaken, of our law, which has already been passed. Today you want to raise to 90, and your amendment to 100 percent. Well, let's see what the audience needs. The viewer may also want to see something in a different language. And we see TV ratings.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u46	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u47	And there are ratings that confirm that the viewer wants to watch TV. So let's let those who run the channels do what they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u48	Princey.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u49	Thank you. Well, that's a fundamental question, isn't it? This is the main question for the room: will Ukrainian channels continue to ruse Russian films, serials made here for the Russian viewer and shown here, Ukraine. Is that a question of principle for everyone? I understand why you insist on this. Yes, I publicly said that this would be regulated by the Television and Radio Act, and we'll introduce such corrections. He was sitting with his colleagues right now saying, you know, we're going to compromise with these bastards who destroyed this Ukraine all the time of independence, and now we're going to compromise because we're not going to accept the law, and we're going to continue to ruse Ukraine! And we'll continue to tell you what good "wealthy people" go to Crimea! Well, aren't we ashamed?Oh, my God! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u50	Guys, I want to remind you. When we accepted TV and radio quotas, there were also many warnings in the hall. But we see today -- no humiliation has taken place. But there was the boom of the Ukrainian song, the Ukrainian film, and the Ukrainian television. So, colleagues, you don't have to be afraid of that. I'll tell you what, Mr. Valérie. Ten years ago, my little girl had no opportunity to watch cartoons in Ukrainian, and she had no such right in the country of Ukraine. Today all Ukrainian children have that right. Only one state can protect the Ukrainian language is a state under the name of Ukraine. So, colleagues, I'm betting on a 661 vote. Please vote. Who is responsible for taking it fully into account? [[11:02:41]] For -14 The decision is not taken. 662, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, I'd like to speak to the rapporteur again. Let's do without this rhetoric, let's do without the political slogans, because that's how it disproves what's on the basis of this bill, and its adoption, and its adoption, and its timing, in time, the ideology and this policy, which makes this law in general unconstitutional, definitively from the first step of its adoption. I'd like to look at the context as described in article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine. There is no right at all to receive information, even regarding the activities of public authorities, and there is no legal regulation of life at all, it is the life of the environment, life, and activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u52	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u53	And so I would like to turn to the fact that there is a law today, that no one has canceled it, that it is both in the language of work and in the language.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u54	Thank you. I bet on the vote on Amendment 662. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[11:04:24]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. 663rd, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u55	Dear colleagues and a well - respected reporter, I realize that there may be a burning of chariots, a drink of water. Listen, sir, I'm gonna ask you to slow down. I'm going to the bill's rapporteur. But I'm still bringing you back to the point where I'd like to see your work in the right direction, on the basis that you're ignoring the already adopted rules of law that ensure that citizens get this information, as discussed in these bills. You forbid them from getting information in their native language, national minorities. It's essentially bullying. Read, there is no analogy. And that's why I'd like to tell the reporter that they're going to see the whole nation that they're going to use this law, not just Ukrainian citizens. And the Constitution is just as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u56	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u57	And that's why the Constitution, once again, guarantees the protection of use and application.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u58	But briefly, okay, Mr. Mikolo?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u59	I want to say very briefly that these changes, in addition to the percentage of speech, relate to the already valid edition of the article on television and radio talk, which are already accepted. And if the reporters, they satisfy them, they could have sued the Constitutional Court for it, but they didn't. This is where the rules of law are transposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u60	Thank you. I bet on the vote of amendment 663. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[11:06:27]] For 20 The decision is not taken. 664. It's Igor Shurma's turn. And then Papiev will be back.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u61	Igor Šurma. Dear colleagues, look what we're doing now. The whole quota is set out in the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. We are now starting to change quotas by this law. You know, we should all use the Constitution today. I am. No one blames me for not being a proponent and I'm not a propagandist of the Ukrainian language. I was, and am, and will be, and remain a citizen of Ukraine and an MP who speaks Ukrainian. But good people, I also have the basics of reading the Constitution: "The country language in Ukraine is the Ukrainian language." And it's not written here that there must be some extra law. Everything depends entirely on the specifics. Why did you introduce this law today? Because you're covering up the traces of your personnel policy. Because thanks to you, 300 Georgians who spoke Russian came to the government, took the lead and did much damage to the Ukrainian language. So what's being introduced here, the amendment, I'm asking you to put it in for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u62	Thank you. I'm betting on confirmation of number 664. The committee supports it. Please vote on who supports this amendment. [[11:08:00]] For-48 The decision is not taken. 665th, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u63	This is my amendment, the committee has taken it into account in an editorial way, and I ask you to put it on full-scale validation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u64	Thank you. So I'm betting on the 665 vote. Who's to accept it fully, please vote. [[11:08:29]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six, Papiev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u65	Thank you. Honorable Ukrainian National Deputies, respected Ukrainian citizens who look and listen to us! You know, symbolically, this is the number that got this number-- three sixes, 666. And this law is basically the law and it has to be number 666. So what's in this law, and what's fixed, it has absolutely nothing to do with truth, with justice, with the Constitution. And by the way, the very right question was, and, Mr. Head, explain to me as the national deputy of Ukraine. There's the Constitution of Ukraine, there's the law of profile, which is the basic Law on Television, where it's all set out. On what grounds do you tell me the law of the Constitution or the law of Ukraine that you in another law introduce other things into the body of the law that do not conform to the current law of Ukraine? You're making a floor right now. And this is even an article like that in the Criminal Code. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u66	I'm betting on confirmation of the 666. The committee supports it. Please vote. [[11:09:59]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 667th, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I am confirming what my colleague has said that we are essentially turning this law into an instruction manual for the transfer of our right to feudal law, where only what is stated by the feud can be done. So we don't get it? If we don't understand, make decisions like this, they're unconstitutional. How can people’s thoughts be manipulated in their language? How can we forget that we are a multinational state? And that's why I'd like us to listen to our amendment that we have people who are equal among equals: Russians, Belarusians, Jews, hahauses. We forget about them. Who gave such a right to an interviewer, a group that is subject to the legislative initiative in this regard, is essentially divided.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u68	I'll bet. Finish? Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u69	So I'd like to, think about it, listen to this, listen to people whispering, what kind of gong is going on in Ukraine about what is the purpose of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u70	Gomin goes to Ukraine: language in time. That's what everyone in Ukraine says. So I'm voting on amendment 667. The committee's dismissed. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[11:11:55]] For-24 The decision is not taken. 668, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, with the same motive, I want to say not to repeat or waste time. "The Opposition Platform for Life" for this law to be, the bill, considered and not accepted in this paper. And the better, the better. But the authorities want something else. So I'd like to keep the ideology from being distorted or distorted. 30 seconds. The motives with which the authorities intend to influence the minds and minds of our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u72	So I'm putting the 668 to a vote, and I'm rejecting it by the committee. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[11:13:02]] For 20 The decision is not taken. 669th. Now it's Valerie Pisarenko's turn, and then it's Igor Schurm. Please, Mr. Valérie.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u73	Thank you. I want to say, first of all, we don't have a discussion here about Ukrainian. It's state-owned, it has to be used in all areas of life, and primarily in official parts. We have some kind of controversy about how we work with business, whether it's television or newspapers or something. So the logic here is that the Ukrainian language is not popularized, but we force the TV channels to do everything by quotas. Why? If Ukrainians want to watch "Irony of Fate" for New Year's Eve, let them watch TV shows, they figure out what to show them, there's no crime in that. Now let's not politicize this issue here, and yet let's look at how we're going to popularize the Ukrainian language, and the bans on publicity are not exactly going to be done. Please place on confirmation an amendment that restricts the use of other languages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u74	I'll bet you vote 669. So they insist on confirmation. [[11:14:34]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I'd like to inform you that we've had a turn of events, letters from the very morning. Whoever intends to take the right course, please inform me in advance, not between three, but between four. So, colleagues, 670th, Igor Storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u75	Igor Šurma. I'm going to quote specifically for the cameras, so you can see what I'm quoting. Jura, step away, please, Miroshnichenko! The Constitution of Ukraine Article 10: "The Ukrainian language is the Ukrainian language. The state ensures the comprehensive development and functioning of Ukrainian in all spheres of social life throughout the territory. " And the law guarantees the use of other languages. I believe, and I believe, that the bill in question does not correspond to the Constitution, and what is happening in this room today is called a substitution of notion. These quotas, which are stipulated by another law, we are going to put a huge imbalance in the legal field today, because one law in force in Ukraine will regulate certain percentages of quotas, this bill will put in others. And so I propose that this amendment be edited for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u76	Please, Princey, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u77	Colleagues, I'd like to speak to my colleague, Sverke, my colleague Moroko. Comrade Moroko, may I help you? I'm talking to my colleague Moroko. He can't hear me. No, he doesn't. Okay. Victoria Sumar. See, yesterday the Committee on Freedom of Speech asked that everything related to television and radio talk be governed by a professional law. My paper on this. I just asked to delete this article, motivated by what it should be in the law of profile. But the Opposition Block insists that this rule should be in the Language Act and impose this right on confirmation. So don't call me then, but call the Opposition Block. If this amendment is voted, it will be regulated, not by the Television and Radio Act, as we agreed with you, as recommended by the expert board, but by the Language Act. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u78	Do you insist on voting? Do they insist on voting? You insist. I'm betting on confirmation of the 670s. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[11:17:18]] For-46 The decision is not taken. 671. Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! For the stenographer, I say. We've already reported, and we're preparing a constitutional submission on the unconstitutionality of the provisions of this law and in order for the argument to still be before the Constitutional Court, because you know, there are already two decisions of the Constitutional Court that have been declared unconstitutional by the laws of Ukraine that have been taken with the breach of procedure. And I never got an answer. There's a profile law. On what basis do you now change the Constitution of Ukraine? You don't change the drafting of a profile law, but you make another, another interpretation, other legal rules into a law that's not profiled, and you actually make the laws a dualism? Please tell me, on what laws will the courts decide? There's a valid law, a professional law where quotas are set, and you're changing quotas by this law. The president, by idea, should veto this law, and he'll be right if he does. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u80	So I'm betting on confirmation of 671 rights. Who is supporting her? The committee supports it. Please vote. [[11:18:54]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 672, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, we cannot dismiss the laws that are in force today, not only the Broadcasting Act, but also the Information Act, is the norm of the Constitution. Read very carefully: The right to receive information is likened to the right, the natural right to move citizens. And because we're making a proposal, we say we have neighbors, and where the broadcast goes, where other citizens live compactly with a different language -- our Ukrainians have the right to receive in their native language the information given by the state and given by neighbouring countries, if that's their mother tongue. That's what this is about. And I want to say it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u82	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u83	30 seconds. I'd like the committee that prepared it to study the decision of the Constitutional Court, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u84	Thank you. I remind you that the concept has changed: not for 30 seconds, but for 10. So it was I, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who was responsible for organizing the work of the Council, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that changed that. No law says 30 seconds, it's totally in my power. You're always talking about empowering a national MP. I want to remind you that there are rights, responsibilities and responsibilities of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and according to my authority, I have made a decision. So I'm putting it to a 672 vote, and it's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[11:21:11]] For-16 The decision is not taken. 675th. Who's in line? Remember, colleagues, remind me to. Pisarenko, right? 3rd and 4th count, they're accounted for, look closely. 673 and 674 are included, colleagues. So you're saying the German amendment is what he wants for confirmation? Well, people, you're a little bit. Okay. Germany, this is the German's license, it's accounted for, 673rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u85	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Andrey. I want to report here that there are actually some adjustments that have been made to the Opposition Platform for Life. I'm grateful to the commission, the committee that worked and saw that this is a bad law in separate places, and it's counted. That's why I'm taking that vote off. No, please. Please don't put it to the vote. It's both 673 and 674. Don't put it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u86	Thank you. 675 Valery Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u87	Yeah, maybe I'll give you an example, yeah, as far as we're concerned, if we increase, if Parliament raises its TV quotas now, we'll probably get the country back with you. If today's Ukrainian television channels are watching Ukraine, if there's diversity, then in the future, if there's only a hundred percent of everything in Ukrainian and there's no other product for them, they're going to look for it on the Internet, they're going to go on the satellite. And you're going to see that in fact you're going to destroy Ukrainian television. Now think about this example. So if you don't allow television to compete with the Internet and with the satellite today, you can actually end Ukrainian television at all. Because today people will go on the Internet to watch TV differently, people today will watch satellites. So think about the quotas again. Please bet on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u88	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I should really like to point out that there has been a grave violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, because, after the amendment has been rejected, only the author has the right to present it. I want to remind you that this is about Mrs. Hopko's amendment. As far as I can recall, we have a very different name for the rebirth group. So there was a gross violation of the Rules. I'm even embarrassed that a great lawyer went for it. I hope we never do that again. I didn't mention anyone's last names. We're moving on, and I'm asking you not to violate the Rules. The next amendment is 676, the Prince's. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u89	Mine, me. Dear colleagues, this is exactly the right thing to say that the calculation of a piece of a song or a movie is regulated not by this law, but by the Television and Radio Act. It's considered editorially. Please take it fully into account, place it on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u90	Thank you. Let's move on. The next is 677, Germany. Your word, please. You are the author of this amendment. 677th. For confirmation. I'm betting on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u91	Your Honor, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u92	I'm betting on confirmation of the 676 amendment, presented by the author. I'd like to make a statement. Full-scale. Please be sure. I'm putting it to the full extent required by the author. [[11:25:09]] For-42 Correction counted as editorial. 677, please, National Deputy Germano. That's his amendment. I can't give Shurma a word. No way. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u93	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I want to be heard that this is essentially not going to be an activity, not a media activity freely licensed, it's essentially going to be a loop-on-the-neck report. That's what this is about. You see, they send it to the first part of the paragraph, where it says, "it's an obligation, an obligation on the subject who distributes the information." An obligation that would not be foreseen would be the same, for the initiators wanted to do so under the language law. It's unacceptable. There is freedom of speech. And the work, the work of these organs is essentially the implementation of these principles on freedom of speech, information in our country. That's why I'm asking you to put ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u94	15 seconds to complete, please. Oh, you're done. Please identify yourself for 677 amendments. [[11:26:46]] For the 15th. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 678. Please. I don't remember whose turn it is. Please, National Deputy Shurm. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u95	Dear Ukrainian citizens, once again, I stress article 10 of the Constitution: "The country language in Ukraine is the Ukrainian language. The application of languages of other languages of national minorities is determined by law." As far as the Constitution is concerned, since this is absolutely, from the point of view of those constitutionalists, it is, well, just illogical. And I'll tell you that this Ukrainian Language Act, it needs the support of not only members of the committee, but also the Hall. Look, today it would be, you know, convincing for people and for everyone to have 226 deputies here -- the European Choice Coalition. How many of you are in this room? If you vote 226 today, I understand there's an approach. And so tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, you will all be taken as mutons to the polls, and you will vote, and you do not know why. Because they're making a whole bunch of changes that they've been talking about, they've made, and lawyers can do that. That's why I'm asking for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u96	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u97	Comrade Moroko! He's gone again, I've wanted to talk to him, and now I'm talking to you again. I'm being approached by representatives of your political power and asked to regulate the law. TV and radio was not in this law, but in the Television and Radio Act. That's what I'm being asked by the representatives of the BP, some of the People's Front, from other political forces. To do that, we took into account the Hopko amendment, because the standard of part five has been removed, since it deals with detailed sectoral regulation of the procedure for speaking, and this regulation is more appropriate in the Sectoral Law on Television and Radiocommunication. So this is the second time you're going to correct what I'm asked by the representatives of your political power. Please identify yourself and then make sure that there is no claim to the committee. I insist again. Are you really insisting on voting for this amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u98	Thank you. We have no replication during the discussion. You appealed to the committee head, he appealed to you. Now, at the request of the Shurma People's Deputy, I am asking for confirmation of the amendment of the 678th People's Deputies of Gopko. Please make up your mind. The committee wants to vote in favour. The committee is requesting support for this amendment. [[11:29:31]] For-47 The next amendment is 680. Now, I'm looking. 679 is your amendment, it's counted. Please tell me. Mr. Germank's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u99	I want to inform you again, I am very grateful that our amendment has really been taken into account. And we've just come from the fact that it's impossible in language law to ask questions, to limit citizens to the realization of absolutely natural rights. And that's why we accept that our amendments here have been taken into account. But we ask that we continue to obey and continue to deviate from the unconstitutional standards of this law. I am grateful and ask for confirmation not to bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u100	Thank you. The next amendment is 681, and Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u101	It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u102	Next. 680th is Gopko. It's not counted. And you, as an excellent expert, are the same as Mr. Pisarenko, the Rules, you know that I can't give you my word until you have the name Hopko. And your last name isn't Hopko, it's Papiev, I remember that. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's just me. There's no line. I noticed that Pisarenko's last name is not Hopko. There are no violations of the Rules. 681. There is respect for you and for your names that we know and remember. Amendment 684 is further amended. Andrew Illenko, please give me your word. We'll be right back.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u103	Andrew Illenko, Freedom. This amendment is taken into account, so I don't insist on anything. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u104	Thank you. Let's move on. The next amendment is 685, Anointed. [[B in m in s a l in]] 682, Germany. Please. Germany, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u105	"The Opposition Platform for Life," Germany. Amendment 681, where we asked to rule out, and it's counted. This is really the question of what unjustifiably set the standard of law for people, how to sing and what to sing, how much and when. This must be done, as we say in the center of Ukraine, before we try to bully people. So I'm grateful, even though this error was seen and understood, probably the lawyer there was reading these separate standards. So I'm asking you not to bet on confirmation, but simply to point out to the community, in front of the citizens, that the right amendments are coming from "The Opposition Platform for Life," and not one tenth. Please listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u106	Thank you. Thank you. There will be a comment by the committee head. In turn, I want to refer to the Opposition Block as the chairman, and I want to point out that a lot of the right amendments to the Opposition Block are included in the drafting of the bill for the second reading. We really want the law to be voted on as soon as possible, and we want the right amendments to the Opposition Block to remain in the body of the law, and so we appeal to the authors of the right amendments to the Opposition Block, with the request for an amendment not to take the floor. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u107	Well, actually, I wanted to ask you to. Thank you, Madam Chairman. Since according to the Rules, if something does not work out, the MP may initiate discussions and request a vote. But if everything works out, it's just a little bit of a delay in the process, and it's just an adjustment to tell us how beautiful they are. Because the good ones count, let's move normally, respect each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u108	Thank you. If such a compromise is found, we will all be happy very much. If I understand correctly, we have the next amendment to which we wish. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we're not compromised. 682 revisions. Please, Mr. Germanko's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u109	Madam Chairman, understand that we are as no one and as no one sees the need, we as no one sees the need for compromise and see this compromise only when the legislator comes out on the constitutional compliance platform. Please tell me why we've been expelled. Because responsibilities have been imposed, responsibilities have been imposed on citizens who are not provided for by the Constitution, they have been limited by their natural rights. That is why I am grateful that this has been taken into account. And please don't put an amendment to 682 for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u110	Thank you. We're moving on. The next amendment was 683, too. The next amendment is 685. Please, Mr. German's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u111	683 revisions. Dear Mrs. Irina, well, yesterday I was talking about the irony that sounded here, and it sounded to the whole of Ukraine that we put some deserts into the law. And that's why I want to tell you about it, that irony came from you, you remember. And so I want to say that it's not irony, it's the fate of people, it's their political rights and natural rights. And we stand by to protect their interests. There are millions of people who are confined to the rights to the realization of their absolutely natural right to language. And so I'm not asking for confirmation, I'm just saying that they've taken into account the limitlessness and violation of the Constitution that the authors of this wrong norm have allowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u112	Thank you. There was an appeal to the Presidium, especially to me. I hope that both Mr. Germany and the entire Opposition Block who read a lot, they know that the scariest things in the world are done with serious faces. So I think that irony and self-irony are helping to preserve common sense in this sessional room in general, and especially in discussing amendments to the bill, which is very serious and important that we are currently discussing. I think I'm one of those people's deputies who's not the only one who's following through on all the amendments and even knows what they're all about. We're moving on. The next is amendment 685. For after the fourth time, Mr. Illenko spoke. And please, Papi's word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u113	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, respected TV viewers watching us! I want to explain what's going on in this room right now, so people understand. Look, there are strangers who want to write the quality of their hotels and implement some of their phobias in spite of the Constitution of Ukraine and other professional laws of Ukraine. And there's the Constitution of Ukraine. I'm asking the Ukrainian citizens who are looking at us. The Constitution states: "The State ensures the comprehensive development and functioning of Ukrainian language in all spheres of social life throughout Ukraine." And the next paragraph is: "Ukraine guarantees free development, use and protection of Russian (other languages of Ukrainian national minorities). So there is the standard of the Constitution of Ukraine. You are in Ukraine’s law in general, contrary to the 10 articles, to remove any mention of Russian. And this, I want to remind you, is about 60 percent of Ukrainian citizens who use it in their lives. That's why I'm asking for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like once again to urge all those who take the floor to discuss a specific amendment to talk about a specific amendment. We are now discussing amendment 685, which was taken into account by the committee, at the request of the People's Deputy Papiev. And this amendment applied to the following: "Part of the sixth article 20 delete." Even this did not occur during the discussion of the amendment. I very much ask that we discuss the amendment. This will be compliance with the Rules. So that we can understand what the session room is supposed to be voting on right now. Colleagues, therefore, took into account the amendment of Amazanova. So I ask you very much for the reply of Mr. Knieżicki. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u115	Dear colleague Papiev, this is a block of amendments that, at the request of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, have had a major discussion with the media groups "Inter", "Ukraine", "ICTTV", and others, have asked that the standards governing television and radio talk be removed from this law. The amendments of these national deputies remove these standards. You're not basically in violation of the Rules, but by insisting on a vote of confirmation, you're actually acting against the request of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Media after holding consultations with large media groups. Are you really insisting on this amendment? Okay. Just then, you don't have to appeal to me and to our committee from other committees. Because you and your representatives go to the committee and ask for one thing and then you demand something completely different. It's completely illogical to delay the consideration of the bill and lead it to absurdity that you can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u116	Thank you. I'm asking you to make a determination for 685 amendments. Colleagues, the committee's asking for a vote. This is a confirmation amendment. Please be sure. The committee is requesting support for this amendment. [[11:40:29]] For-47 The next amendment is 686th People's Deputy of Knieżicky. You have the floor, Mr. Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u117	Thank you. Again, this is a series of amendments. We worked seriously on the committee because we received an address from the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Media. Although some members of the committee were strongly opposed, they felt that it was the Language Law that regulates speech on television and radio. We agreed with the profile committee's arguments, compromised and decided that this regulation would be implemented in the Television and Radio Regulations. This is what my amendment refers to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u118	Thank you. At the request of the national deputy Shurma, we place it on confirmation. Colleagues, please support, this committee's amendment has been taken into account. Please, 686th. Please be supportive. Let's say yes to the vote, this is an amendment to the committee. [[11:41:30.]] For-50 The next amendment is the 688th National Deputy of Germany. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, we do not offer to make decisions from the ceiling or to ask for a vote; I am very grateful. The vote, which was amended, was passed on from the number of people in the hall to almost 30 percent. So I would like the presiding officers to understand, and for the chairman's protocol, whether there's a presidency, a leadership, a parliament, they can see more from the hall, what we're listening to, what's interesting is the interest of who's listening to it. We see that there's no quorum, we're ineffective, from the point of view of law, and that's why we need to determine, and that's the basis, and that's the reason why we can't recognize such actions. And if in terms of criminal, inconvenient, let's look at this one this way. Maybe you shouldn't be bullied, let's do it or change it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u120	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u121	Whether to change the form or to act clearly under the Rules and the Constitution, which obliges us here to be present at least 226. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u122	Thank you very much. And I ask you to determine on this amendment, colleagues, the committee has rejected it. [[11:43:19]] For-13. The next amendment is 689. Please, National Deputy Germany, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u123	There is some hope, I think, not the last, that hope should not die at all, that we will be heard, because immediately as many as three count our positions. I want to get out of what we've been putting into our proposals. And we tabled, Sir, a report on this law, article 13 of the Law on National Minorities, which provides that citizens belonging to national minorities are free to choose the extent and form of exercise of their rights by language, that they are personally implemented by means of appropriate institutions and social associations, where they use their language exclusively and take part, and that they have no responsibility. And that's why I'd like to say that forcing citizens in any way that it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u124	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u125	forced abandonment of nationality is not permitted. That is what this law says about the obligation to prohibit, in effect, the language of the mother tongue.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u126	We're moving on. 692 revisions. Sevrukov, please, 692 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u127	Thank you. Thank you for your word. I would like to speak on the subject of article 20, which we are discussing here. Mikola Leonidovich, you're saying that the changes are going down now, we're seeing who understands what they're talking about, that they're going back to the law. What did you do on the committee? You transferred them to the Television and Radio Act, the profile law, as requested by our Freedom of Speech Committee. But some of the points are the same, especially those relating to quotas and figures, they remain in this bill. And you know our position as committee. It's not because some media groups are influencing someone and they're asking for something. The point is that regulation for the media should still, according to most members of the committee, be in the only profile law on television and radio. And it's this discussion and this complexity that's here in this room that just confirms my opinion that it should be like this. In addition, I would like to remind you that we are now considering in the committee the new Audiovisual Services Act, which is also our commitment to a treaty with Europe, and we have until the end of this year, even by the end of the summer, to accept it. That's why I'm going to insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u128	Thank you. At the request of the national deputy Sevrukov, we make an amendment that was taken into account by the committee in its entirety. Please identify yourself. [[11:46:43]] For the 15th. Please, there is now an amendment to the committee. Please ask the chairman of the committee who did not respond to Mr. Sevrukov’s request. Please, I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u129	Thank you. Comrade Sevrukov! Yes, so that everyone in the room can understand. In fact, in this law, and now only a percentage of the Ukrainian language is regulated, everything else we put into the Television and Radio Act. We're ready to take fully into account the Sümar amendment that we've been talking about. But what the representatives of the Opposition Block did now, they brought back into this law what we agreed with you and the same media groups. So this is going to make our work more difficult at the end when we adopt the law. That's all I wanted to say, and I wanted to ask those representatives who don't understand what they're doing very often to understand what they're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u130	Thank you. Let's move on. The word to the German MP for amendment 695. It's his amendment, it's been taken into account, but the national MP requires words. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u131	Dear reporter, I'm going to address you as follows: without this rhetoric, without the teaching thesis and the identification of the reporters or the national MPs speaking. First of all, you have no right to do that, and second of all, it looks very funny when a reporter who's been there has to be, no doubt, even more than an English queen is doing this kind of thing. Mr. Mikolo, you're a normal person. Give it to me. An educated person is on an equal footing, and do not rush to do so. There's a name, there's family, if you want to say something. And so I'm going to say about this amendment: put it in for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u132	It's your amendment to put it on the stand. Dear colleagues, this is the amendment of the German National Deputy. It was considered by the committee, the author requires that it be put on confirmation. Now, a comment by the head of the Knieżicky committee, shocked by the author's request. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u133	Yeah, I just don't get it. Comrade Sevrukov, colleague of Cervakov, is what we discussed with you. This amendment is taken into account, the standards of part seven are deleted, since it deals with detailed sectoral regulation of the language procedure. This regulation is more appropriate in the Sectoral Television and Radio Act, but now the author of this amendment is asking him to submit it for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u134	I don't care, the Rules don't provide for any action other than putting this amendment to Mr. Germany at Mr. German's request for confirmation. Then I'll give you my word, Mrs. Ola, I see everything. Please be sure. I'll give her my word after Mr. German's next amendment. She's been asking for a word for a long time. [[11:49:58]] For-35 Mr. Germany, you see when your progressive amendment, 35 deputies voted in favour, but you killed with your hands like Gogol, you see, your child is amendment 695. We're sorry. Amendment 696 of Mr. German. Please require Mrs. Cervakov's words on this amendment. Please, Mrs. Chervakova.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u135	I'd like to respond to Mikola Leonidovich's words about what's breaking the law, and that's where the previous rules come back. I want to remind you once again that under the transcript of the first reading, it was agreed that part of the 20th of this law would be presented in the actual edition of article 10 of the Television and Broadcasting Act, which is what we now actually have. It's just that I want this to happen under the transcript, and everyone to remember that we are now dealing with the body of the law that was adopted in the first reading on such a condition that the 20th article is published in article 10 of the Television and Radio Act. So I think that maybe when we get back, when we get back to that question in the final vote, we can totally remember and pick up the transcript of the first reading, and there'll be everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Ola. You don't insist on voting. The next amendment is 697. Please, it's Gopko's correction. Cervakov insists, after her word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u137	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to rephrase the position of the committee. On October 13, last year, 75 percent of the language quotas on television came into effect. I'm holding the Nacrada report that happened to us last Wednesday, by the way. And here are the integral indicators for monitoring the National Television and Radio Channel Board: 99 percent, 93 percent. So the head of the National Council, speaking before us, said that the language quota was changing. And to regulate this question, there is no sense and no meaning. Moreover, as our committee believes, and as industry representatives believe, it will simply bring chaos and instability to the field. So thank you very much to the profile committee that you went to meet no.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u138	Thank you. The next amendment is 698, Germany, but it was counted by the committee, but insists Chervakov on it. Please, Mrs. Chervakova, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u139	No, to confirm the previous one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u140	Please, Mr. German, I give you my word at your insistence.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u141	.97. There was a request for confirmation from the previous 697.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u142	No, she insists that she be given the word for 698 amendments. Please. You don't insist. So you're balancing the law. Right, Mrs. Ola, I understand? Well done, come on. I'm betting on confirming the amendment to Mrs. Chervakovi's request. I'm betting on confirmation. Please identify yourself. This amendment was taken into account by the Committee, Mrs. Chervakova. Yeah, 697. At the request of Mrs. Wormwood, please place it on confirmation. I'm asking you to support her, colleagues, this amendment. She was counted by the committee, and the committee is asking to vote in favour. [[11:54:09]] For-43 The correction is being rejected. Next, 698th. Please, Mr. Germanko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u143	698 revisions. This is true of the ratios that occur when you receive information. It's too bad, too bad someone ran ahead of the steamboat or put a wagon in front of the horse. And, look, that's what we came to. Now colleagues are asking questions, and we're asking the question that we don't have to regulate all language issues like that. We have other laws that regulate this issue. I repeat: The Information Act, the Broadcasting Act. But it should be based on articles 10, 11 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Look at her, don't waste the Constitution's standards in language legislation. I would ask the reporter very much, and I would ask the chairman what he needs to hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u144	Thank you. A German amendment that he doesn't insist on. Next, 699th. This amendment is also included, Germany, but it requires words. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u145	I'm not asking, but I just want to say one thing. Dear colleagues, how many? This is essentially an indication of how. See, the order goes: accounted for, accounted for, accounted for. To what extent is it taken into account? But it speaks of the inadequacy of the bill that was passed. And if you could do that to the airport, before you land it, for consideration, you could remove it, these are all of the norms, and in general I would ask him to look again, they call it, "the body of the law." God damn it, call him "the body of the law." Feel it well, it's the body of the law, and you'll see that there are malignant tumors, and where there are, maybe not malignant tumors, make a diagnosis. Here are the medics, the medics we have, yesterday we heard about this, about these medics. And so I'd like you to look at this body of law where you're going to lead our society. And I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u146	Thank you. The next amendment is 702. People's Deputy Princely, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u147	Thank you. This amendment is taken into account because we agreed that regulation would be implemented in the Television and Radio Regulations Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u148	Thank you. The next is 703 amendments, People's Deputy Pisarenko. Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko, 703rd. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. Let's put it down, I've already given the word Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u149	I want 703. Some times the authors want to set limits here, but some want to refer to other laws. We're proposing that we already establish what exclusions are going to be from all of your quotas and limits, we want this to be enshrined in this law. By the way, I also talked to the representatives of the radio company, and they said that not everything they asked in this law was taken into account. So we suggested that we have some exceptions that would allow television companies to work more freely on TV. And once again, this law and these quotas, by increasing quotas, you're just going to kill the Ukrainian TV. They're gonna go watch the Internet, watch the satellite, and you're gonna stay with a TV that's not gonna happen. No one's watching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u150	Please comment to the committee head on the rejected amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u151	This is an amendment to article 8, and we had previously removed it, so the amendment was rejected. And we've been removed because we're going to regulate it in the Television and Radio Act, as requested by the profile committee. I don't know what to say here, we don't introduce any quotas here, we don't do anything like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u152	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to identify yourself for this amendment of the People's MP Pisarenko, 703rd. The committee turned her down. [[11:58:52]] For -8 Thank you, 8 for it. Dear colleagues, we have from the 704th to the 708th amendment -- these are the amendments of the German and Shufric people's deputies, they were counted by the committee. But Mr. Germanko insists on all of it. I'm giving him two minutes. From 704 to 708, he's going to present us with these amendments that were taken into account, and we're going to take a break with you. Please, two minutes. I'm going to continue our work for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u153	I don't understand what's causing you to give me six amendments for two minutes. It's the only way I can predict what's behind this. But the question is different, Mrs. Irina. The question is that it's precisely these amendments, which of the Opposition Platform for Life, that we're not dividing into individual initiatives and initiatives of our political power. We share the interests of the people and the constitutional laws. And that's why we are these amendments, which are accepted and taken into account, which are exactly what the broadcasters are saying, or were trying to put them into such control functions that essentially excluded the possibility of their ideas being implemented, the intention within the framework of the permitted standard of the Constitution for the dissemination of information to the population. What's more, I wanted to say that this is exactly what we've been saying, and it's supported that citizens have the right to get information. And they have the right to get information and people who refer to foreign-speaking citizens of Ukraine, I stress the attention of foreign-speaking citizens of Ukraine. Hence, on the basis that there is a law today that protects the interests of these people, and no one has canceled them, it is well - known that we should consider the matter in order to make a commitment to all sources of information.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u154	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u155	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u156	15 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u157	It's illegal, it's anti-constitutional and it's essentially an attack on freedom of speech. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u158	Thank you. I want to remind you that those amendments were taken into account. And my position was based solely on taking care of you so that you could make it on a coffee break. Dear colleagues, you and I are now stopping our work at the 709th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Knieżicko. I'll call it a 30-minute break. And please go back to the session room, and we will continue to consider with you the amendments to the bill on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u159	Colleagues, break time is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, get ready to continue our work. And I invite the chairman of the committee to the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform and invite the deputies to the Hall. And ask the right-wing authors to prepare themselves for discussion. I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to the rostrum. I just want to remind you that we've reached a 709 time limit. 710 by the authorship of Germany, from which we will continue our consideration. And I'm asking you to turn on the microphone to the National Deputy of Germany. Please 710 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, we have one or two left at all. And I can't see any more, I don't understand fractions. I'd like the chairman to see it, actually, that this is essentially a wire circus, and there's a law that's so important. It's me about that national patriotism we have and it's on the altar of violation of the Constitution. The fact that we ruled out this rule that we asked her not to include in the body language law is very good. At the same time, this does not change the principle of legal nihilism that the legislator has based upon the adoption of this important, I repeat, law. So I'd like to take another look at what's here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u161	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u162	Do not enter the body of the bill, enter the body of the Constitution, Mr. Chairman. Look at the hall and look.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u163	Do you insist on voting? It's counted. No, it's not. 712 is rejected. Turn on the German microphone. 712 is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u164	Mr. Chairman, I'll finish up anyway. I would like to draw your attention to article 10 of the Constitution and article 11, which speaks of the Ukrainian nation, not Ukrainians. The Ukrainian nation is a multinational state. And that's why the Constitution protects, guarantees and protects the languages of national minorities. And Ukrainian apiori is a national language. It's national, and it's written right in the Constitution and it's the norm of direct action. And so to say that you're saying "functioning as a national language" is neither in terms of common sense nor in terms of law nor, no more, nor in terms of philosophy, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u165	So I'm voting on amendment 712. She's been rejected by the committee. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:34:58]] For-9 The decision is not taken. 715th. Don't insist. 716th. Don't insist. 717. Don't insist. 713th and 714th accounted for, Mr. Germany. They're accounted for, both of them. They're accounted for, they don't need a vote. Turn on the German microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u166	This is my right, Lord Chairman, let us not be confined. We would very much like to see it more clearly, this law, and correct the mistakes that are in it, unfortunately. But I want to say about what is proposed in the law, the dissemination of information, the dissemination of information. And it's already come to an end and it's come to ideologies. Look, language law, language law creates the possibility and principles of creating and disseminating ideologies, the ideology of power, not the ideology of society's interests. So I'd like you to listen anyway. And we are grateful that this position of "The Opposition Platform for Life" should be based on the interests of citizens, the interests of the Ukrainian nation, not on ideology.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u167	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u168	Not just one ideology, based on the Constitution, about pluralism of thought and ideologies of diversity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u169	Thank you. So I don't vote because they're counted. And we've been waiting for Medvedchuk's associates at the Supreme Council Hall to talk about the interests of the Ukrainian nation. 718 German revisions rejected. 715th is the author in the Hall, Princely. Please, Princess. There's the author, he's the first one to have a right to speak. Please, Princess. I emphasize once again, I've said many times, the prime right to speak on the right is given by the author of this amendment. If he refuses, someone else will. Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u170	During the discussion, the committee considered that a portion of the transmission that should be adapted to sign language should be determined by another law. That is, this amendment that sign language should be defined by another law. In view of paragraph 13 of the conclusion of the legal system, it is important to note what law is going on. Thus, before the vote, if Parliament supports it, the committee’s revision of part five of article 24 will be clarified by the definition of a special law governing the rights of sign - language persons. So actually it's only partially accounted for, I'd like to put it completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u171	Who's in charge of taking 715 into account, please vote. [[12:38:13]] For-34 The decision is not taken. 716th. The storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u172	Dear citizens of Ukraine, I read the Constitution of Ukraine. Article 10: "The Ukrainian language is the Ukrainian language. The state ensures the comprehensive development and functioning of Ukrainian language in all spheres of social life." The law only defines the application of the languages of national minorities. And then every amendment that is being tabled today should not be the result of a vote on the committee, but should be the result of a vote in the room. And that is because we have not reformed Parliament according to Cox's mission. If we want this not to be a narrow committee decision, but a parliament, let's put it to confirmation. And it would be very good if today there were 226 ruling coalition "European Choice," and they supported these changes to the legislation that are being tabled by the deputies. So let's now look at the result of how many people in the ruling coalition support this amendment, including my one voice. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u173	I'm betting on a vote of 714 approvals. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. The committee supports it. [[12:39:43]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 718. Germany. I already announced: Germany, 718th. Please, Germany, 718th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u174	I'm sorry, Your Honor Chairman, the National MP is exercising his right, National Deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u175	I'll give it to him after you. I've already announced you. After you, I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u176	Then please give me some time, give me some time. Dear colleagues, we ask that this rule, which we are referring to, be excluded in general as well as the previous rules of article 20 of the language bill. In addition to his responsibilities, he puts nothing down and gives nothing to citizens in terms of getting information. But these responsibilities depend on those who distribute this information for those who are licensed with whom.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u177	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u178	works in this area, and the limitations of their rights are not allowed at all. I'm afraid you didn't renew my terms, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u179	But you say endlessly, you have plenty of time. So I'm voting for amendment 718, and it's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:41:31]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. 717th, Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u180	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, if everyone went to work like Shurma, you would never have any problems with re-voting. And I want to make one point. You know, we've got this colleague, Deputies Long. When it was removed, the main reason was that it violated the rules. So I want to emphasize, I have a right guaranteed by the Constitution regarding my thoughts. I stress, in this amendment, article 10 of the Constitution: "The Ukrainian language is the country language." And today, when we're based on Ukraine's Ukrainian Language Act, even if it doesn't fit into the body of the Constitution, we're looking at people sitting here -- 226 as a minimum, and showing their unity, and voting. It's just a shame when we speak English. And today there is no one in the Hall from the ruling coalition. People are good, are you in English or are you absent? Let's see your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u181	I'll bet you vote 717. I'd like to vote who's in charge of taking it completely into account. [[12:43:00]] For-29 720. Germany. 721.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u182	Germany is alive. Germany is alive, yes. Dear Chairman. Dear reporter, I would like to say that our speeches here, our proposals and our aspirations for the future of this law, or even for settling the language issue as a basic law for statehood, are awe-inspiring to the responsibility and awareness of our people's deputies. Even more so, our supervisor, who is obliged to provide for the requirements of the Rules and to say that the national deputies have been registered there in the magazine, is. We have heard of this from the Chief that I am physically and legally not. And today it's legal, and physically it's not. So what are we doing? I'm asking you to put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u183	720 is rejected, it can't stand for confirmation. So I'm betting on the 720 vote. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:44:34]] For -8 The decision is not taken. 724th. Don't insist. 721. Branzovich, please. 721.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u184	Thank you, Mr. Head. Article 21 reads as follows: "Duced media in Ukraine are published in national language or in any other language." I pay attention to colleagues and the whole public: there is an unprecedented violation of the rights of national and linguistic minorities in the practice of European states, and not only. The guiding principles of the protection of human rights, such as the principle of equal treatment and equal opportunities, are being addressed. This legal norm also violates the principle of equal competition in the market for printed media and equality in the right to free distribution and access to information. To avoid that, I insist on voting on my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u185	Thank you. This is a partial adjustment, and the author insists that it be counted in full. Who's in charge of taking the 721 amendment completely into account, please vote. [[12:45:48]] For -8 The decision is not taken. 724th. Don't insist. 725th. Don't insist. 26th. Don't insist. 27th. Don't insist. 28th, Germany. Please, 728th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, let's go again, I'm grateful to the previous speaker, let's see our Ukrainian nation, let's see people. Whom should we work for, in the interests of whom? What else doesn't make sense? On the second Sunday, we talk about what is being plundered, the dignity and dignity of all nationalities being debased. Secondly, someone came up with the idea that someone is a threat to Ukrainian as a national language, put this on the table so that we can see. We see only one thing: that every binding norm that forbids national minorities to realize their natural absolute right, as my colleague has just mentioned. And that's why we came out of this and made this marked amendment to the bill. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a total violation of the rules of the Constitution, in fact, possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u187	Thank you. So I'm voting on amendment 728. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:47:27]] For -6 The decision is not taken. 29th. Don't insist. 30th. Don't insist. 31st. Don't insist. 32rd, Germany. I give you my word. 32rd, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u188	The question is about public language in printed media. It's people's everyday lives. And what is written in this law, which relates to direct intervention, such as on a national level, to the introduction of binding rules on retranslation, on information, on the dissemination of information, while forgetting the presence of the Ukrainian nation of millions, tens of millions of people who have their own language and have the natural right to defend themselves, as the Constitution says, and on the guarantee, as part of the third Constitution says. We don't understand why they're robbing the Constitution. I'd like to pay attention to that and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u189	Thank you. So I'm betting on the 732 vote. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[12:49:02]] For -8 The decision is not taken. 33rd. Don't insist. 34th. Don't insist. 35th. Don't insist. 36th, Germany. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out once again that this legislative act, as it may be called, is essentially a manual for total profit, total civilian activity, for the activity of printed media. Including the fact that executives are entrusted with obligations that cannot be imposed by the apiori are neither labour law nor the condition of this employment agreement. It's about the existence of a license that they're implementing. So we ask you to take very seriously, put it to the vote, and consider our proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u191	I bet on the vote of amendment 736. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:50:34]] For-7. The decision is not taken. 37th, not necessarily. 38th, not necessarily. 37th, Chervakova.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, I would like to express the position of the amendment's author, Sergey Berezenko, my colleague. It's about doing things in stages, just like we did on TV and on the radio, we put quotas in place. It is designed to introduce a step - by - step Ukrainianization of printed media. We think that, and this is the position of many of the members of our faction that actually force business to print those copies that won't be bought out, it's nonsensence and it's pressure on business, especially when the vast majority of readers are now going online. And when printed media are not feeling so well, we cannot impose such a burden on them. And we also understand that they're not going to print this number of copies, and this is a straight path to corruption, so that they get the money for the information that they've printed, and that's not really going to happen. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u193	Please, Princey, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u194	Dear colleague of Chervakov, 737 amendments to the other. It tells us that our law states that at the place of distribution at least 50 percent of us should be Ukrainian. And that's not some dragon norm. I'm sorry. We're being criticized for not having enough names, because when you come to the kiosk and there's no Ukrainian newspaper, it's a shame. So it's happening both in the west and in the east. The press is a disaster. This is the norm for this. We have such a standard, and my colleague Berezenko, who is now missing, wanted to cancel it. The committee did not support this rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u195	Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. So 38-a doesn't insist. 39th, Musius.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u196	The honourable head of the committee! Oleg Musei, 124th District, Sokalstina, Red Town. My amendment refers exactly to the change in your standard, which was written in the original edition: 50 percent on the availability of Ukrainian-speaking means. printed media, editions, to be exact, at places of distribution. Because it's not a big secret that even in Kiev two thirds, or if not 90 percent, Russian for some reason. Not foreign - language, not English - speaking, not Crimean - speaking, not indigenous peoples, not minorities. We have a dominant minority, the Moscow minority. That's why I insist, given the census of the Ukrainian population, that we have 89 percent of the census, that Ukrainians have the ability to read their own language, and not Russian propaganda instills its 'fifth column' in their brains. So it's absolutely right to change this. Well, maybe not 90, maybe, like Taruta before that 75, but that needs to be increased.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u197	Thank you. Please, Princey, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u198	Dear colleague, you see the different thoughts in the room. Your opinion is correct, I will vote for your amendment with a green button and I urge everyone to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u199	I'm betting on the 739 vote. The chairman of the committee calls for a vote in favour. Vote. [[12:54:21]] For-39 The decision is not taken. 40th, not necessarily. 41st, not necessarily. Sorry, the 40th is the law of the Taruti People's Deputies. He's not in the hall, she's out. It's rejected. 41st, not necessarily. 42rd, no insistence. 43rd, no insistence. 44th. What's that? 43rd. Yes, Lesjuk, please. I can hear you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u200	Mr. Mikolo, I ask you to explain the logic of why this amendment is not repeated, why this amendment is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u201	The committee decided that if the publisher wanted to publish newspapers and magazines in non - Ukrainian languages, he would have to print the same edition in Ukrainian. Thus, a figure of 50 percent appeared. The amendment is therefore rejected because the committee intended to create a level playing field for such languages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u202	I'm voting on amendment 743. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[12:55:34]] For -8 The decision is not taken. 744th, Germany. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, here's the motivation for this. What's not clear is what's really going on. That's why we asked them to take our proposal into account. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u204	I'll bet you vote 744. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[12:56:12]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. 45th. Don't insist. 46th. Don't insist. 45th? Okay, okay. Six after five. 45th, Lesjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u205	Mr. Mikolo, you know, there's some kind of casuist all the time. Edited. Explain to me what we wrote, there are two paragraphs that are edited and what is not edited? And please, your logic. Maybe I'm for, like, talking to you at last understand the logic of your approach to language.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u206	In part one of the first paragraphs, it is fully taken into account, not by 70, but by 50 percent of the amount that is to be given to the English language. I explained it in your previous direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u207	So I'm going to vote 745. The committee considered it in part. The author insists that it be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[12:57:31]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. 746th, Chervakova. Please, Chervakova.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u208	I'm telling you right now, I'm not going to bet on her confirmation. I just want an explanation from the committee head. Mikola Leonidovich, this amendment has been tabled by members, particularly our committee, Victoria Sumar and Gregory Sverk, and it foresees that "in individual cases, the publication of printed media registered in Ukraine can be carried out in the official languages of the European Union." I see you're writing that this amendment is part of the committee's agenda, but in the right column, I don't see the languages of the European Union being mentioned here. It seems to me that the definition of such in legislation could give a very positive signal to our European partners. Please tell me that it is edited, how is it edited? I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u209	Yes, it's counted. It is possible to print, not in isolated cases, but in general to print the media in the official languages of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u210	47. No, it's already been done, it's been done. 47th, 48th, 49th. 50th, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u211	To confirm 47th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u212	I'll bet you 747. The committee supports it. Please vote. Who's in charge of taking it all into account, please vote. [[12:59:13]] For-40 The decision is not taken. And 749, Timish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u213	Thank you. I'm not going to ask for confirmation, because there's something in the committee's office that's kept that positive. I'm just going to see Mr. Princely. Mr. Knieżicki, this is the second time I've asked you this question: which country do you come from, let's say, material for this bill? I went around all the countries of the European Union, where they treat national minority languages perfectly. By the way, our united territorial communities that are now being formed, which include Ukrainian, Polish, Romanian, Hungarian communities, they are studying the experience of Slovenia, they are studying Polish, Romanian, and Estonian. Even in Estonia, they travel and study this experience. In my opinion, the element of tolerance is being lost and, let's say, constitutional rights are being violated somewhere in some articles of this law. Please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u214	Dear colleague, well, we've actually expanded your application because you've proposed to distribute newspapers in the languages of the European Union in places of compact residence of national minorities, and we don't limit it to places of compact residence at all. Obviously, you can do the same in places of compact residence. So we've made a more liberal standard than any of the countries you're talking about. If you compare our situation with others, I have a question for you, even though it's rhetorical. What country has suffered from colonization more than 300 years old than Ukraine? What country survived the Holocaust, where millions of people were exterminated, like Ukraine? What country has survived a great terror like Ukraine? What country had dissidents who died in camps like Ukraine? None. That is why our legislation should be one that will finally restore our true, strong independence and will never allow the humiliation of either Ukrainians in Ukraine or representatives of national minorities who have suffered from these criminal regimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u215	Thank you. 748th, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u216	I'm sorry, about 748, I asked you to put it on confirmation. And I want to say why. You can read what this is about. The point is that we have a right, a distinct national minority -- the Crimecatarian people. Yeah, right, yeah, they live compactly, yeah, they should be given rights as national minorities or indigenous peoples. So please tell me where the Romanians are, where the Belarusians are, where the other citizens are, where the Russians are, which are also compact. [[B in m in s a l in]] There are national minorities, and you don't have to, you don't have to yell here. Let's approach in uniform. There is the notion of "general norm, principle" in terms of protecting the interests of national minorities. That is what European practices and norms of international law say. So what are we doing here? What is the difference between a compactly living Belarus? Soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u217	I'm going to put 748 votes. It's partially accounted for. Who's in charge of taking it all into account, please vote. [[13:02:51]] For-27 The decision is not taken. 750th, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, to continue what I have said. Look and think, those who sit in the hall, whistled, clapped, you read the point. It's about the nation. We are responsible for whether they will live in peace and harmony. We ask that all of these standards be excluded in this article as to the language of the binding question, where the State imposes, how much to speak, and how much, while ignoring article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine. I'll tell you, this is on the verge of deceiving national interests, the national interests of Ukraine. That's what this is about. And that's why when we ask the question that we need to rule out these positions, which, even if we do move on to freedom, it's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u219	I'll bet you 750. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:04:21]] For -6 The decision is not taken. 752th, Germany. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u220	As a result of the same positions, the legislator has divided the functions that they carry, by their enforcement activity, into the latent means of imposing and imposing upon them the obligation to comply with these rules of language law, ignoring or injuring the languages of national interests, the languages of national minorities. This is unacceptable. And that's why we come out of this and say no one can and no one can, all the more, control, all the more, write down rules on the absolute natural rights of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u221	I'll bet you 752 on the vote. It's rejected by the committee. Who's supporting her. Please vote. [[13:05:38]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. 753rd. Branzovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u222	Thank you, Mr. Head. Article 22 reads: "The publication and distribution of books in Ukraine is carried out in national and any other language. The State promotes the publication and distribution of Ukrainian literature, translation into English of foreign-language literature." Delete the rest of article 22. The committee's proposed formula, according to which this obvious discriminatory norm will not be extended to publications that are made at the expense of public and/or local budgets under the law on the order of implementation of the rights of indigenous peoples and national minorities in Ukraine, does not solve the problem at all because such publications are almost or completely absent.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u223	Please, Mr. Mikolo, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u224	The Committee's proposed regulation does not prohibit the publication and distribution of books in any language other than Ukrainian. At the same time, the law provides for a mandatory portion of publications to be printed and distributed in the national language of 50 percent. Since the amendment proposes to remove such a mandatory part from the law, the amendment was rejected by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u225	I'll bet the vote on amendment 753. She was rejected by the committee. Who's supporting her. Please vote. [[13:07:07]] For-7. The decision is not taken. 754th, Musius.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u226	The honourable head of the committee! Oleg Musei, 124th District, Sokalstina, Red Town. Explain to me where it came from in the second column to the second reading of the second part of the first paragraph, where you write about a government budget that does not extend, actually doing it again in the language of national minorities. You said that in the languages of national minorities, there would be a separate law that would regulate it. Not enough, from 753 to 761 -- there's no place, no one, no deputy and no committee has changed to the first point. It's what it's called, manipulation or unconscious or something.? Please remove this second part as one that has not been submitted to the National Deputies for second reading. On account of the percentage, please take into account my bill, which provides for an increase in the percentage of Ukrainian publications in the respective issue. And explain why it happened, where it came from.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u227	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u228	The committee has the right to make an editorial statement; this is an editorial issue. This paragraph reads: “A publisher who is admitted to the State Register of Publishing Publishers is obliged to issue at least 50 per cent of all published in the national language during the relevant calendar year the names of the book editions. This requirement is not extended to publishing products published in Crimean Tatar, other indigenous languages or national minorities in Ukraine at the expense of state and/or local budgets in accordance with the Act on the Order of the Realization of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples of National Minorities." You suggested in your right hand that you increase the mandatory share of publications in the national language from 50 percent to 80 percent. The committee on this subject had a really long discussion. And since some MPs have suggested that these standards be removed at all, and now colleague Branzovich has also suggested that this rule be completely removed, as you have heard, that position has been duly approved, and there is a reference to a special law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u229	They insist on voting, right? I'll bet you 754 votes, she's rejected by the committee. Who's in charge of supporting her, please vote. [[13:09:41]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. 55th. Don't insist. 56th. Don't insist. 57th. Don't insist. 58th. Don't insist. 59th. Don't insist. Okay, 59th, Papiev. And then there'll be Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u230	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, there is a substitution of concepts. That is, some law comes out so artificial that you pay attention to other professional laws in one article, and in other articles you don't refer to the rules of the law. And yet, we wanted some codification of Ukrainian legislation to be carried out in accordance with the standards provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. This law, it is totally not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. You are now again interfering with the body of other laws that are in force in Ukraine and introducing dualism into the legislative field. I would ask that they treat the national minorities with respect. The Montenegrin region, where more than 200 million Ukrainians, Romanian - speaking Ukrainians live compactly, needs to consider the needs of these people, their right to read and speak their own language. I'm asking you to place this amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u231	Mr. Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u232	This is indeed a very important amendment, because a colleague who has just spoken proposes to completely ban the distribution of the books of national minorities. Especially. Because the law says that 50 percent of the non-proliferation rate is for specialized bookstores designed to realize the rights of indigenous peoples and national minorities. So if the bookstore is a Romanian bookstore in Chernów, it has the right to sell books completely in Romanian, and that's why it's left to it. But a colleague of Papiev, fighting the national Romanian minority, under their name, is trying to completely limit their rights in Montenegro. As is generally the case with many political figures who seem to speculate on the interests of national minorities, defending only the further colonization of Ukraine, with the humiliation of both Ukrainians and national minorities and indigenous peoples.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u233	Do they insist on voting? So I'm going to vote 759. Please vote. Who's in favour of accepting it completely, please vote. [[13:12:18]] For -6 The decision is not taken. 761. Turn the German girl on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, 60 straight Constancewich. All right, Musai. 60 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u234	This is part of the calculation. The honourable head of the committee, just about this article that we started with you discussing at my right hand, please note this amendment, you're writing that it's dealt with editorially and editorially you've taken a completely different standard into account. So please give me an explanation of how I, as a national MP, have the right now to put on confirmation so that I can remain in the first reading of this first paragraph. So, what do you want me to say for confirmation? Because if I applied for confirmation of the '60s and 59s, which we've just voted on, there won't be a possibility of that. You didn't give it to the committee. So that's what I think is a violation of the Rules, of the second reading. Explain to me what we have to put on confirmation to keep it. only the first part gives 50 percent, without this second part, which discriminates against the Ukrainian language actually in the edition?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u235	Dear colleague, according to article 120 of the Rules, you are in a position to submit for confirmation the first reading. You have to sound it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u236	But I think in this case it's better to put the whole thing right. It's better to say, "please take the whole thing into account" is more correct. Okay, I'm putting up a vote. Who's in charge of taking the 760 right into account? Please vote. [[13:14:10]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. 761. Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, it is already a well - known fact, an obvious fact that the issue of economic character is on the platform today for the development of every society. Already in the 21st century, we do not speak of nations, nationalities, or anything else, in fact, the apiori are considered inadmissible, their natural rights, they are protected. This is what the Constitution said in article 10 about Ukrainian as a national language, and once again we emphasize the need for it to be an official language. At the same time, see what we have to offer in this case. We divide people into nationalities, we divide them up, we don't give them the right to get that information, we don't give them the right to keep it binding, we don't let it happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u238	I'll bet you vote 761. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[13:15:43]] For-7. The decision is not taken. 767th, Moses insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u239	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u240	Okay. Wait a second. It's because of the pause. 762, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u241	I'll go back to the logic that included 762. I want to say again, we also put quotas in the bookstores and the booksellers. I don't know when you were last in the printery, but. I was recently. And there's a lot of books, 90 percent of books in Ukrainian. But you know what the problem is? If you look at the choice, there are 20 books that stand 200 times in the regiments. I mean, what are you doing now? You limit the possibility for private publishers and distributors to maintain normal business activity. Give them a preference from the state to finance so that they can find it interesting to do so. Otherwise, the Internet will buy Russian books in Russian, and there will be ten books in the bookstores that will be, no one will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u242	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? Please vote. [[13:17:28]] For the five of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u243	This is an amendment that prohibits imports into Ukraine of books. I mean, Pisarenko's coworker is now backing up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u244	Please turn on the microphone to the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u245	I really don't want to take the time, but sometimes I want to explain, because my colleague Pisarenko has put 762 bills that have been taken into account, because the committee has acknowledged the proper warnings of the people's deputies, agreed that the state can't restrict imports into Ukraine of any goods, including books. Since international treaties provide for the implementation of the trade embargo, Ukraine has breached international obligations. Thus, a colleague of Pisarenko by initiating the application for confirmation actually found a way to ban the import of books from Russia into Ukraine. I don't mind, I'm in. But I need everyone to understand. Thank you. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u246	Thank you. The next amendment is number 763, the Ptashnik People's Deputy. People's MP Pisarenko is asking for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u247	It's the same thing. I'm sorry, there's a language that goes, at 2 points, you have a language that says that the state can restrict imports into Ukraine. Not "can't" but "can" limit. But you fixed it already, it sounds really different, yeah. I mean, before that, we could limit it. But I'm not saying it. What are our differences? I propose to promote Ukrainian language, to provide financial support from the State to those who want to participate in it, and to enable them to make popular Ukrainian. And you try to limit it, that is, you owe it only to Ukrainian. But that's what we're going to come up with, but the Internet isn't going to be able to ban everything today. People on the Internet will get everything they want. Otherwise you'll see that we have a small choice of Ukrainian. Let's promote and provide opportunities and financial support to those businessmen who want to participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u248	The chairman of the committee had already explained his position during the consideration of the previous amendment. Will you insist on confirmation? Please vote. [[13:19:44]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u249	No, I just want us not to violate the logic of the law, Comrade Pisarenko. So the law was given both to Zaleschuk and to Belkova and to Germany and to Shufresche. Because this right here, this right here, we counted it because we didn't limit the books here. You've just banned the import of books from the Russian Federation, you have to realize that. Because you're asking for confirmation of these further revisions, the votes are not enough, so the import of these books will be prohibited. Got it, right? Therefore, Germany and Shufrich also applied a similar law because they wanted to keep it out of the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u250	The next amendment is number 764, People's Deputy Zalitschuk. Please, the People's Deputy Papiev. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u251	Thank you. Honorable Ukrainian National Deputies, respected Ukrainian citizens watching television and watching the events in the session hall! I would very much like the committee's representative, the committee's chairman, Michael Leonidovich, not to mislead our Ukrainian citizens. And when a national MP puts Pisarenko on the stand, it does not say that this amendment is disappearing, for it has been made by five other Ukrainian national deputies. Even if the amendment of the Romanovsky People’s Deputy was approved, the amendments made by Belkovy, Germany, and Záštchuk remained to be taken into account. That is why let us inform the true citizens of Ukraine and answer the questions that apply to this law. So I'm not going to put this amendment to confirm, because it's all still in the body of the law, and I'd like to ask you to continue to follow the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u252	The next amendment is number 765. He doesn't insist. The people’s deputy Papiev did not insist. The next one is 767 revisions. National MP Musai, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u253	Dear committee head, it's hard to understand the logic of this law in your proposed edition, when you don't take into account my amendment, which increases the so-called bilingual, because 50 percent is, of course, we all understand that it's just a rule taken from the ceiling, that's half of it. And half of it is known to be bilingual. Why do we preserve bilingual languages in Ukraine by the Law on State Language? Let's do it in Ukrainian. So this standard, which is in my right hand, about 70 percent, is absolutely right. We need to make progress, not preserve a bad condition. Once we find that Ukrainian language is followed by the fifth Moscow column in Ukraine, so it's perfectly logical to increase the corresponding quotas systematically by law, and on the right hand side, to more Ukrainian editions that should be in bookshops, on schedules and anywhere. So please put my bill to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u254	Please take this into account. [[13:23:15]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. 766th National Deputy Germano. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u255	Dear colleagues, there has already been a question about how, at the legislative level, you can put a net of slaves into the order of a volunteer, as Yatsenuk once suggested, regarding the inadmissibility of intrusion. Read it. Is it not clear that this is a latent form of censorship? Is it not clear that this does not meet international direct standards? What, did you not understand when such a bill was being drafted? And look where they're hiding what they're doing to give the police a chance. Once again, police functions. And where is the question of moving goods? Read it, read it. And that's why I'd like them to listen to this drafter. And considering that our amendment is counted, I do not ask for it to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u256	Thank you. Let's move on. You don't insist. The next one is a 768 amendment. People. Don't insist, all right? 769th. Don't insist. 770. Don't insist. 771. Please, the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u257	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I wanted citizens to feel what was going on in this room again. An absolutely insurmountable law that today interferes with the field of activity of other professional laws and that tries in parallel with existing valid norms of other laws to introduce some of its restrictive things. That's 50 percent now. People's deputies are competing, which is 70 percent, 75 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take the Constitution of Ukraine as a base. These are your limitations, they're even, if you think about it, theoretically, they're only going to apply to those who are officially going to "kill" these books from other countries and other languages. Everyone today, which is 90 percent of the black market that smuggles, is going to stay that way. So let's actually get out of logic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u258	Thank you. Are you insisting on confirmation? No, it's not. The next amendment is number 772. Don't insist. Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u259	Thank you. You know, it really says here that there are privileges to bookstores for non-profit national cultural organizations, national minorities. But I still want the committee to work on redrafting what's left of the law, so that you can look at how to encourage the bookkeepers to promote the Ukrainian language. Not that then you have organizations that will print in any language and they'll get out of control of the law, but that all bookkeepers are encouraged by the state to print in Ukrainian, do enough risk-taking business projects, like today, but the state should help them. You don't have to ban it. You can do business with the resources of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u260	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u261	My dear colleague, I would like you to know that we have adopted a law with you that has been created by the Ukrainian Institute of Books and approved the budget, and we are giving hundreds of millions of dollars to support Ukrainian production. That's what I'm going to say, so everybody knows, and just so you know, we've been doing this over the last few years in volumes that we've never done in an independent Ukraine. And thank you for that too, and I hope that you voted in favour of this law, even though I do not remember whether the amendments that have been supported have been made, but thank you to all who are in this room, because we have indeed done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u262	Thank you. You insist.? No, it's not. 773, National Deputy Germano. We've considered 2nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u263	We've been trying to get around here and get our colleagues to know that all the restrictions that have taken place here are based on the State's will, the binding nature of the sanctions are essentially foreordained. See what such restrictions are and what the publishers or publishers of books and other sources should do. Well, how can we regulate business. Look, they've set a 90 percent standard, they've set another 60 percent standard, they're talking about reporting to the government in the public language. See what is going on, going, going everywhere, and so says world practice. What do we say? We've already gone to a private entrepreneur, we're already dictated.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u264	Do you insist on voting? Please vote. [[13:29:38]] For -8 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 774, National Deputy Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u265	I would like you to pay attention to such abrasive phenomena as are found in this law. See, it is recognized that it is a book edition of the English language of dictionaries and phrase books regarding the translation of the foreign language into the English language. What do we know? Is this, is this the norm to define the definition that is the edition of the Ukrainian language? This is not for this nor for this article. Dear colleagues, we ask him to be expelled because, by its very nature, by its legal definition, if you want, by legal definition, she may have a right, perhaps she is right, but not in this article. It's a question of opening up an understanding of terms. And we're putting it in the order of the law, the order of what it's going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u266	Vote. Please change number 774. Please vote. [[13:31:11]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment. The next amendment is number 775, the People's Deputy of Musei.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u267	Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokalstina, Red Town. The honourable chairman of the committee yesterday, yesterday, you convinced us that this law would not contain norms that apply to the language of national minorities and indigenous peoples. Instead of removing this rule from this article and from this item, you leave it now, where there are national minorities, where there are indigenous peoples and so on. Please explain to me the logic, is this manipulation, or do you want to deliberately leave Ukraine to grow? Because, on the one hand, you're saying that the law should be positive, in the foreign language, and leaving this rule in this law, not in a separate law that is being prepared. You said your colleague Over there is preparing this law. So why leave here? Let's get this rule out of here and leave it to the National Languages Act, to the languages of national minorities. It turns out that there's some kind of separation of personality or a separation of committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u268	My dear colleague, this bill has been worked on, as you have rightly stated, not by one person, not even by the individuals working on the committee. And we also had large consultations with representatives of national minorities, with the public, with public figures. You propose to remove the law, but the committee believes that in order to protect the rights of indigenous peoples and Nazis, and we refer here to the law that we are preparing, as in the body of the law, that the State should provide them with the opportunity to buy (sell) book editions in their own language. Similarly, it is foolish for members of the committee to impose a requirement for the mandatory sale of such publications as textbooks, in a foreign language. So this amendment was rejected. There's a reference to that law. And textbooks in a foreign language may not contain English. If you buy an English textbook, there's only, excuse me, English text and English letters. We can't implement Ukrainian language there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u269	Please vote. [[13:33:45]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 776, People's Deputy Lesjuk. Don't you insist? No, it's not. The next amendment is number 777, People's Deputy Kishkar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u270	In fact, I don't see a chance to confirm this amendment. But I would add, Mr. Mikolo, that we really have a tragedy with teaching, particularly foreign languages, whose textbooks have, for example, Chinese or Korean, should be Ukrainian. In fact, even in Shewchenka, children in philology learn Russian - speaking textbooks. That's what I'm talking about. I realize that we are going to focus on the independence of our universities and the possibilities for printing, there, on computers printing these books. But in fact, the program that you mentioned about the Ukrainian book should be added, and that's exactly what these materials are. Because there's a big, big tragedy about teaching the philosophy of other languages' subjects precisely about the presence of the Ukrainian book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u271	Dear colleague, I will briefly point out that in the preceding article, as you remember, we have talked about the fact that teaching a foreign language should be conducted either by this foreign, or by the Ukrainian, process itself, we have already confirmed this. Obviously, the manuals also need to be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u272	Don't you insist on voting? No, it's not. The next amendment is number 778. There's no insistence on a national MP. 779. Don't insist. 780. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u273	I'd like to inform the reporter. As to the question, what if we already speak and do such deep-seated oaths in front of the languages of the European Union, please tell us, and where are the languages of other citizens with whom we will live here, in Ukraine, are our citizens? That's the first one. And the second. Look, we even put the language of the European Union first. Then say it, please, and the public language is still there. Look at the chronology. We ask that we rule out this kind of bill because it violates the rights of national minorities and Russian-speaking minorities of Ukrainian citizens. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u274	Thank you. And please vote. [[13:37:01]] For-7. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 781. The nation’s deputy Musai.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u275	The honourable head of the committee! 124 constituency, Oleg Musei, Sokalščina, Czervonograd. If it, this amendment, is about the kind of amendment that was my previous one to confirm, but if you leave it in fact and want to make it better, this bill, why did the second reading in the third paragraph come with a reference to the indigenous peoples and minority languages in some special bookstore? Well, it would be better if you pursued the goal of Ukrainianization and preservation of Ukrainian language, at least to leave it in the form that it is in the first reading. Why are other languages of national minorities added? Do you not realize that all these manipulations of national minorities are persecuting one goal - Russian language, preservation, abandonment of Russian? If there is a Law on National Minorities, about their languages, there will be a regulation of all these standards. So it's absolutely logical to remove it in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u276	Vote, please. [[13:38:31]] For -8 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 782. Please, National Deputy Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u277	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. The proposed amendment is textual and makes it clear that the State’s obligation not only to promote the distribution of the corresponding printed literature but to do so through public and municipal libraries. That is, the inclusion of this standard in the bill will allow the annual allocation of funds from government and local budgets for the purchase of Ukrainian literature and will contribute to the updating of Ukrainian Library Book Funds, which unfortunately has not been updated for decades. This is an account. Don't put her to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u278	Thank you. The next amendment is number 783. Please, the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u279	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Honorable citizens of Ukraine who are watching the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! See, it would seem that such an amendment is written down, and it sounds to the average people absolutely calm that the State is promoting the publication, translation into the national language of foreign - language literature. But I have a question for you: and where are the languages of the national minorities, the languages of the indigenous peoples of Ukraine, basically what does the Opposition Block say about you creating an informational, linguistic and cultural ghetto for Russian-speaking Ukrainian citizens, Romanian-speaking, Hungarian-speaking? He has no right to live, he has no right. This is not a law that upholds European values but goes against European values and the Constitution of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u280	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:40:50]] For -8 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 784. Please, 784? Please, National Deputy Musai.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u281	Dear committee head, I just want to thank the committee here for taking this into account. And it's only completely correlated with the discussion that was made by the representative of the Opposition Block who just spoke to me. In fact, if you were to read carefully these changes that you're trying to beat, there are other languages, and it's the languages of the national minorities -- it's different languages. And it's perfectly logical that a translation in English of other languages, Russian or Romanian, or Hungarian, any attempt to beat this amendment actually shows one thing: that you want to manipulate this law. He allows all minorities to translate into Ukrainian. There is no manipulation, read carefully: "other languages." "Other languages" is all the languages of the world except for the Ukrainian translation. So I'm not going to insist, of course, on voting, but in terms of discussion, I think it's becoming absolutely clear and clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u282	Thank you. You don't insist on voting. The next amendment is number 786. National deputy of Germany, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u283	Dear colleagues, the citizens of Ukraine, we are once again informing, and here we ask that we support our proposal for phenomena that have been exposed to language discrimination. like other Ukrainian citizens who live and are citizens and bear all the rights of the state, an independent sovereign Ukraine. It's about national minorities, it's about Russian-speaking people, millions of whom are talking about people who live compactly. And if the State, the Constitution, obliges the State to protect it, it guarantees it. To guarantee and protect the Russian language and the language of the national minorities, this must be done, where is the protection? Where's the protection in this law? It's discrimination. And what's more, that's what State discredit is all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u284	Please vote. [[13:43:52]] For -6 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's make good use of your time, and considering that you're still taking advantage of the whole process, there's no reason to give 10 seconds for further. Please, 788, People's Deputy Pisarenko. 787. Please, the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u285	Thank you. It's a terminology. The original phrase "electronic information systems" has been changed to a more precise phrase: "interfaces of computer programs and websites". It's edited, I'd like to take it completely into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u286	Thank you. The next is 788, People's Deputy Pisarenko. Don't insist. The next amendment is number 789, National Deputy Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u287	Dear colleagues, we think it's necessary to ask for our support because, again, it's a matter of national language, of providing national language in electronic information systems. I'd like to take a closer look. By the way, I can see by the handwriting that was referring to Polish law, the so-called Law of the Republic of Poland on Polish language, where in parallel they have the Law on National Minorities and Ethnic Minorities, I'd like to say why it's separate. But you'll find out that in electronic communication systems, electronic information systems are not supposed to get involved. They see that they will not be able to manage them, even more so, to make a commitment. Imagine for a moment what someone wants to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u288	Vote, please. [[13:46:17]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Next, Amendment No. 791. 790. Please, National Deputy Vasjunik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u289	Thank you. A very important article in this law, and I would like to stress that retaining the definition of "and/or" in this article will contribute to the fact that the Ukrainian-speaking consumer will not be protected from the right to a user interface in Ukrainian because most rights are currently available in English and Russian. Thus, this will not contribute to the production of a product for a Ukrainian-speaking consumer, nor will it make it difficult to understand the interface of the program. For example, Comfy refused to set up a Ukrainian-language consumer interface because legislation does not set such an obligation and programs are sold in any language. That's why I'm stressing my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u290	People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote. [[13:47:38]] For-12. The decision is not taken. The next is 791, the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u291	Thank you. Honorable Ukrainian national MPs, distinguished colleagues, you know what I wish we could still use a unified approach in this law in various articles. One article of this law, the languages of national minorities and the languages of indigenous peoples, cannot be found in one article, and the other, which is completely synchronous to the preceding articles, says: English or other languages, the official languages of the European Union. In fact, in the preceding articles that we considered, and Mikola Leonidovich will confirm this, it was simply: the languages of the European Union. Here comes the English language. So let's write it down, we live in Ukraine, and let's just assume that there are different nationalities in Ukraine. And it needs to be written here: the language of the indigenous peoples and the languages of the national minorities, and their right is enshrined in this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u292	Please, I beg your pardon. In general, huh? Please. [[13:49:17]] For two. The decision is not taken. Amendment 792, People's Deputy Tetjana Ostrikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u293	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I want to point out that the amendments that apply to the language of computer programs are in general in violation of the ideology of this law, because if the authors of the law say that it refers to the use of Ukrainian as a national language in public life, then computer programs, including those installed on material media, on our private laptops, on telephones, and so on, are exclusively private life and private communication. And from that point of view, I would like to point out that you, Mr. Knieżicki, have invited your colleague Bilkov to a working group in another category of amendments: the use of national language in public enterprises. And I also very much want you to invite me to the task force right after that bill, which deals with business and refers to the use of computer programs, the labelling of goods, the certification, the accompanying documentation for goods, so that you and I just don't cause the consequences when, in fact, the software vendors can't influence the world's producers and force them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u294	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u295	And make them develop software in the world: Windows, Microsoft, there, Safari, Apple, Oracle. That's why I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u296	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u297	I'll give you the answer that, first of all, this isn't about private communication. This is about the public sphere, not the private sphere. Second, English is allowed here, in this law, no one forces them to do anything. Yeah, yeah, she's allowed. And thirdly, where you need a translation in Ukrainian, even the Ukrainian courts, you know, there's this Levian-Litinski, who occasionally applies to the court, for example, to one or the other company, so that the interface in the car is translated into Ukrainian, wins the courts, and these big transnational companies translate this interface into Ukrainian for Ukrainian consumers. That's perfectly normal, because it's about our territory and our legislation. But obviously we are ready to cooperate with you, and we will be happy to cooperate. When we prepared this law, we also consulted the European Business Association and the American Chamber of Commerce and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u298	No, wait. Wait, wait, wait. Wait, don't scream! Part of their amendments, much, much more, we counted, we counted most of their amendments. There were some that we really didn't count after a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u299	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u300	on the committee, with experts, and with public activists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u301	You insist on taking full account, don't you? Mrs. Olga, do you make it all right? I'm forced to contact you because I have made an official letter to a member of your faction asking me to contact the deputies to remove their rights. And when I do my duty and respond to a letter from a colleague, I ask you not to insist on my rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u302	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u303	Not me. Go to Jehora, please. I'm making his request now. So I'm putting a motion to vote that 792 amendments should be taken fully into account. The committee considered it editorially. Who's in charge of taking it all into account, please vote. [[13:52:58]] For-27 The decision is not taken. 93rd. Don't insist. 94th, 95th, 96th, 97th. Sold, 97th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u304	I'm sorry, Andry Volodymyrovich, but I have to say to Mikola Leonidovich. It's actually my amendment, it's written that it's not counted, it's rejected, but it's essentially considered editorially. And the point is that the interfaces of computer programs, they should not be in all 24 languages of the European Union, but they could be in the languages that the site owner needs. But at the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in paragraph 3 of this article 23 this rule is not taken into account. And in the end column, this rule is already written in a very different way: once again, the possibility of using some language, exclusively state or exclusively English, is excluded. Those languages that may be in the interface in paragraph 1, which are defined here in this direction, are not included in the 3rd paragraph of this article. So I don't insist on voting, maybe you can redecorate that it's counted, this amendment. But please note, though, that Mikola Leonidovich, paragraph 3, contradicts paragraph 1 of this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u305	Thank you. 98th, Germany. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u306	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw attention to the language of interference, interference in this way in the area of the Internet communication system. With whom and where, on what basis? If it's about some kind of online communication going with the authorities, there's no question that you're dealing with here, no questions. But look what this is about. This is a total, total translation into English or English. What's next? Whatever we say, it's the same programming. So why do we think that everyone will sit and use the Internet, just think about this program that the committee head sees as the author and promoter of this language bill? So we think that this kind of situation that's been introduced has to be ruled out. And please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u307	Thank you. So I'm voting on Amendment 798. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:55:41]] For -8 The decision is not taken. I'm reminding you that I'm going to continue this meeting for 15 minutes. So 99th. Musai, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u308	The honourable head of the committee! Oleg Musei, 124th District, Sokalshina, Red Town. With regard to this article, I generally agree with my colleague Vassyunic, who, unfortunately, was rejected, in his turn. Because if she hadn't been rejected, I wouldn't have insisted. I would insist on voting. And if it is not rejected, I will not insist, but I will comment. Which is actually the "a" or "a" leftover, we're leaving just this English version. So we're struggling with Russianization, and now the norm that remains, in the second reading, is that most of the programs and even those manufacturers, they won't want to do Ukrainian interfaces. You know what you'd actually take as a sample of Czechs where the computer -- there's no word in the Czech Republic -- "computer," "reader" is. And actually, Ukrainianization has to be actually finding Ukrainian matches both in programs and in titles and everywhere. Why should we impose English instead of Russian now when we have a native Ukrainian?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u309	Don't you insist on voting? 801. Don't insist. 802nd. Don't insist. 803rd. Ostrikova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u310	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to you, Mr. Knieżicki, it is very important that, in fact, as Sales colleague said, you have a part of the first article on the language of computer programs that contradicts the third part of this article, which refers to the language of computer programs installed on material media. What does that mean? This actually means all mobile gadgets, tablets, laptops, computers, even televisions, where computer programs are installed today, so this part of the third does not indicate that, unless the interface is developed in Ukrainian, which may be other languages of the European Union. This time. And that's exactly what I'm talking about. And secondly, dear colleagues, you think the interface is purely an external icon on your phone. So no, please read the definition that this includes a set of software codes. And how do you think world software developers are going to do that in Ukrainian?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u311	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u312	What is involved in this direction are colleagues of Semimenach and Ostrikov. They suggest, in part two, in the first sentence after the words "interface in national language," adding the words "and/or English" in the second sentence after the words "interface in national language" to add the words "and/or English." The possibility of use is editorially taken into account because the possibility of using the interface in English is allowed in part eight of this article, where the interfaces of professional equipment are concerned. If you're taking professional equipment, I don't know, I used to do television, professional broadcasters that aren't sold very much in Ukraine, obviously there's no use Ukrainianizing it, it could be English. But when we talk about household equipment, obviously household equipment should be Ukrainianized. And that's perfectly normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u313	Thank you. I'll bet you 803. The author insists that it be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this idea, the proposal, please vote. [[13:59:22]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. 804th, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u314	Dear colleagues, I want to tell you that this bill has 41 articles, once again, 41 articles on the introduction of national language as mandatory. That's 41 spheres. We have also reached the area of the Internet. I want you to have whoever's in charge read the European legislation, and here I agree with my previous colleague who made it clear that you understand that we have the world's authors and the subjects of software that we can't influence at all. What do we suggest? Then they'll be gone. These are the elements of their latent nature by narrowing down the volume, including the citizens, to use this information.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u315	I'll bet you 804. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[14:00:53]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. 805. Ostrikova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u316	Dear colleagues, I very much want this law to be passed. But I really want to make sure that we don't do the whole Ukrainian business that uses computer programs in its activities, and this is the whole Ukrainian business and all the people in fact, so that they don't reprimand us. So I'm really worried about the fact that you and I don't want to understand that the interface is not the appearance of icons on our phone or on our computer. Please read the definition of the interface. This includes, including user interfaces, a set of software and hardware that provides user-computer interaction. Do you understand that this is the language of computer programming? Well, we can't force programmers to do computer programming in Ukrainian. Please think about the content that you put into the concept of a user interface and what it really is according to the technical definition of this device. And more than that, I would like to draw your attention to another part of this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u317	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u318	That is, if the interface is not in Ukrainian, it is a product of improper quality. We actually have all the electronic devices that are going to be goods of inappropriate quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u319	Briefly, please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u320	Part three is that if the developer wants to participate in public procurement, he has to provide a Ukrainian-language interface. And we realize that it's essentially the only incentive to translate, because it's going to give him some advantage in terms of government. But the second paragraph of this article allows you to purchase and use applications with an English-language interface, but until the developer publishes an update with a Ukrainian-language location. Since this amendment proposes to exclude this approach, it was rejected by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u321	I'm betting on the vote of 805. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[14:03:10]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. 807th, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u322	Dear colleagues, our amendment is precisely about excluding those positions that we have been talking about. It will be us who will laugh at the world again. You see, what do we want to impose on them? You know, it sounds like we don't have to see our fool out there. What are we doing? Look, find out where in the world where languages are concerned, where they want to impose national language, use state language and use it as a tool for Internet programs and others on a global scale. And so we ask, really support, because it will be impossible to work in the future, especially in business. Moreover, was it not rightly said that you are already interfering with the quality of material things? You see what you're writing in the norm, that language failure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u323	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u324	..stresses the inefficiencies of an estimate of work, which is a trade mark. So I'd like to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u325	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 807. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[14:04:56]] For the four of us. It's a shame to leave the room at such a responsible time. The decision is not taken. 8th. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 10th. Don't insist. 11th. Don't insist. 12th. I'll take a look. 9th, Vasjunik. Please. I went on for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u326	I am very sorry that, in fact, the committee did not accept my 790 revisions, on which a practicing lawyer insists on defending the Ukrainian language, my assistant, Svetoslav Litinski. But I will insist on supporting this amendment in the final adoption of the law as a whole. As for 809, part three did not define the time period that is allowed to create the appropriate user interface in the national language. Then I propose to set an interval of 6 months to create a public - language user interface for the corresponding computer program that has a user interface in another language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u327	Briefly, please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u328	Since the introduction of any term actually means the imposition of sanctions against itself, if the state has purchased certain computer programs with an English-language location, it must also provide for a deadline for the transfer of updates to the Ukrainian-language interface. In different programs it can be a different term depending on the complexity of the program itself. Therefore, we cannot set a time limit in the law, since it must be flexible, depending on the specific factors and circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u329	Do you insist on voting? I'll bet the vote 809. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[14:06:37]] For-13. The decision is not taken. 10th. 11th. 12th. 13th. 10 lashes. Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u330	Thank you. Dear colleagues, considering what Irina Igorna has done, and she's absolutely right, and I support her, she's one of the national deputies who's been systematically working on this law. But I would still like to have, in addition to taking English into account, this amendment also contains the languages of indigenous peoples and the languages of national minorities. That's why I'm not going to ask for confirmation, but I'm asking the rapporteur to take into account that not only Ukrainian citizens live in Ukraine and not everyone knows English, but everybody knows Russian, they know Romanian, Crimean Tatar, Hungarian, Bulgarian and many other languages, and they need to ensure their constitutional rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u331	You don't insist on voting. 13th. 14th. 15th. 16th. Germany, 16th, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u332	Dear colleagues, please ask for confirmation, I mean that this amendment is accepted, and what we are saying is to exclude all of this, in our view, the wrong and unfaithful messenger that takes place in that article, especially with regard to the imposition on the international level of those software in the national language.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u333	I'm betting on the vote of amendment 816 and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[14:08:42]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. 17th. Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u334	Honourable Head of the Committee, Oleg Musei, 124th District, Sokalščina Czervonograd. This amendment applies, more specifically, to the deletion of the second paragraph of the third paragraph only, exclusively, to my colleagues, who have just spoken about business, private computers, private affairs, and private government authorities and local self - government. The third point. Absolutely. And so it is called, read the first paragraph of this article. And it's because it was perfectly correct as a compromise colleague of Vasjunik that she didn't find confirmation here about the transition period. And you, as chairman of the committee, were against the transition period, taking into account the possibilities, the inability, the contracts, the features. That's why there should be a Ukrainian interface in the Ukrainian government, there should be Ukrainian programs. And this has to be an imperative: it's Ukrainian. Why the State? You can imagine, government agencies work for people, not for someone else, and people don't know English.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u335	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u336	You want to actually have some English versions in the government. So I insist on voting and removing the second paragraph, leaving the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u337	So I'm voting on amendment 817. The committee rejected her, who supported her, and I ask her to vote. [[14:10:28]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. 18th. 19th. Okay. 19th, Washunik. 20th, Ostrikova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u338	Thank you. In part four of the term "except" I think it creates additional mechanisms for non-compliance with the requirements of the law. So I propose to exclude cases where when buying computer programs for government authorities, businesses, institutions, and public and municipal property organizations, you can buy computer programs without having to use a public - language user interface.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u339	Princey.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u340	See, aviation programs, for example, don't have a Ukrainian interface right now. Therefore, by making a deal, we can encourage them to do so and give priority to those producers of programs that make a commitment within a reasonable period of time to bring this into line and to do so in the Ukrainian interface. That's what we're offering. But we can't block certain spheres because there are areas where, unfortunately, there is no such interface. We hope it will, we make a law for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u341	I'll bet you vote 819. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[14:11:48]] For -6 The decision is not taken. 820 Ostrikova. And I'm talking to you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u342	Dear colleagues, once again I address all the healthy people in our room, I'm sure most of them. Please read the interface. This is not an icon on your phone or on your computer. The user interface is a set of software codes that apiori cannot be made in the national language. This is, in particular, to my colleague Musia. I believe that the article on the language of computer programs is incorrect. Or it is necessary to define the interface and to prescribe that for the purposes of this law these are exclusively icons used in telephone, paper, tablet, computer, and laptop, or that this article should be copied, rather than all the Ukrainian business being charged by a product of improper quality. And the second question, Mr. Knieżicky, please give an answer to who will walk and determine if most of the interfaces in this computer are in Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u343	I'll give you an answer now, I'll give you an answer. First of all, mate, well, sorry, if you found an online interface that's convenient for you, it's not a norm. The interface language is the language in which the user interacts with the application. The programming language is a set of technical operators that technically describe algorithms. But there's a big difference between an interface language and a programming language. And that's what any person knows at least with a minimum of average physical education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u344	I'm betting on the vote on amendment 820. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[14:13:48]] For-12. The decision is not taken. 821. Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u345	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to address the reporter, and I'd like to ask you to go somewhere else into tolerance and not go down on sayings that, well, they're just insulting, I don't say, people's deputies anymore, and women are being insulted. And I'd like you to look in that direction. Regarding what is proposed. This is exactly what our amendment refers to. What are we doing? We intervene in an online field where we don't own. What's not clear? And you don't have to say the number of knowledge and everything. Feed on world practice, how this is regulated, where the issues with languages can be dealt with, who can intervene. You've come up with a way to get in touch with our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u346	Thank you. Time is running out, colleagues. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u347	I want you to put it to a vote and rule out this nonsense that is in this norm of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u348	Thank you. So I'm voting on amendment 821. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[14:15:35]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, time's up, let's agree on where we start tomorrow. 823rd. 824th. From 825. Since 825, tomorrow we start our work with Amendment 825. The authors are Semenha and Ostrkova. And I'm asking you, National Deputy Ostrikova, to be in the workplace at the beginning of work at 10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u349	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-20-m0.u350	And I'm again asking you not to insist on my work, again, under the transcript, not to insist on my work. So, colleagues, I want everyone to work productively on the committees, I want productive work on the committees. And tomorrow morning at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the hall to continue our work. At 10 o'clock, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. In the morning, I declare the morning session closed.
