ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. I'm reminding you that registration takes place by clicking on the pros button. Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Good morning again, fellow members of the media, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Prepare to register. In a minute, we'll start registering. Dear colleagues, please register. I'm reminding you that registration takes place by clicking on the pros button. Please register. [[10:02:52]] There were 330 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna, deputy faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I would like to start with the most important issue of our country today: the sale of agricultural land. I think that many in this room do not fully understand what is happening in the global world today on agricultural land, its values, and its strategies for dealing with agricultural land. In order to get a little deeper into this issue, our team took a special brochure developed by international officials, scientists, including Ukraine, and outside Ukraine, about what the earth means today in the global world. And I can tell you that according to the United Nations, the number of fertile lands in the world is shrinking rapidly along with the reduction of drinking water sources. Today, according to the United Nations, every seventh person in the world is in a state of hunger, including children. And in view of this situation, all international organizations that have a bearing on assessing the importance of agricultural land are determined that the earth becomes the world’s most expensive strategic resource. In 2008, the food price spike was nearly three times. And this process continues. And so the strong, intellectual, intelligent countries of the world have defined by their strategy a cluster into the state ownership of agricultural land, both in their country and abroad. The earth for the rest of mankind will be the only precious commodity, the only valuable resource that will no longer be produced, but will only be reduced. The countries of the world have been determined that only those who have the most agricultural land at their disposal will be global players and have a real impact on all processes. That's why today large speculative structures in the corporate world have identified land as the main commodity they want to buy, with trillions at their disposal. And so in no case can Ukraine today get rid of this strategic resource. We'll take away if, God forbid, this happens to the strategic resource of all future generations of Ukraine. And then condemn in.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u4	This will not be possible in international courts. And that's why today the entire country's agriculture has risen. We demand that we remove all laws on the sale of land without exception and continue for one year the moratoriums in order to determine the strategy of the state as we are with our land. Support this and do not allow the sale of land! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u5	Thank you. The report is given by Zabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich, Deputy faction of the Voice. Svoslav Ivanovich Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u6	Good morning, dear fellows! I would like to say a few words about an equally important topic that is really the key to Ukraine's future today. It's like when and how we're going to return the occupied Donbas and the Crimea. We often talk in this room about the need to restore our territories and the need for peace. We all want peace. That's what our whole nation wants. And we want to return the occupied Crimea and Donbas on our terms. But the return plan and the peace plan must support the entire population of Ukraine, or at least most of them. Today there are only three scenarios that we can follow. The first is the military path, the path of military return. Today, it looks unrealistic. There's another way we're being led today by the President's acting team. It's the execution of unfulfilled, Ukrainian terms, the Minsk Accords, the meeting in the Nordic formats for meetings and the continuation of the game under the terms of the Russian Federation, under the conditions of Putin. This path will lead to very unforeseeable consequences, as well as the risk of losing our sovereignty and independence, which is also interesting, which is supported by a minority of the population of Ukraine. And finally there's a third path, which is pragmatic, which is adult and which is thoughtful. It's to find the strength to gather, to raise our economy, to make Ukraine ready for the challenges it faces, and together with all the country under Ukrainian conditions to bring peace and return the occupied territories. This is the path offered by the Voice party. We ask Parliament to become finally a place that will produce this clear pro-Ukrainian plan, nor the non-existent Minsk agreements that will actually lead to nothing good and not have to be done, nor the unrealistic other ways. It is this course that must be effective and unify the entire nation. We need a plan that supports the majority. And I'm reminding you that this is exactly the way Western Germany went in its time under Chancellor Adenauer, who first rebuilt the territory they could control, made a truly exemplary economy and a powerful state, and then they all returned it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u7	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u8	On your own terms. Let's create a plan and implement a plan that will support most of the population of Ukraine, and Parliament is the site and place for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u9	Thank you, Svoslav Ivanovich. Janchenko Galina Igorovna Sergei Schwetz.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u10	Can you hear me? Dear community, good afternoon! Good afternoon, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice Speaker, Vice Speaker, my respects to everyone! Look, guys, I actually went out to welcome all of us with the first parliamentary hearings at the Supreme Council last week. They were organized by the Committee for the Protection of Freedom of Speech, most of which is represented by the "Serve of the People" factions. These were parliamentary hearings devoted to freedom of expression, freedom of speech, and protection of the security of journalists in Ukraine, directly. On behalf of the committee, I would like to express my thanks to the Parliament that supported this initiative, and I would like to express my thanks and to the secretariat of the committee that directly organized and overcame the enormous work. We were joined by an office of the Council of Europe, which also participated actively in this. Sorry, I'm a little worried. But the thing is, we had about 700 participants. It was one of the largest parliamentary hearings I have ever seen in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament. 24 journalists, 15 members of journalistic and social organizations. Like the audience, we wanted to have an object of conversation. We've got it and we've come up with subject-matter recommendations, they're very important. In particular, including, and most likely, the fact that the Institute of Media has found that the vast majority of violations and more than 200 of them have occurred in Ukraine during this year 149 have been cases of physical violence against journalists. And as a result of the hearings, the first parliamentary hearings of this Council, we have adopted a series of recommendations both to the Supreme Council and to the President of Ukraine, to all the law-enforcement, force organs in Ukraine that relate, in particular, to intensifying efforts to investigate the killings and to find the organizers, the perpetrators of the killings: George Gongadze, Paul Sheremet, Vadim Komarov, Viacheslava Veremia, Olesia Buzzina and the rest, the rest of our colleagues, our fellow citizens, who have been punished by criminals because they have expressed freedom of speech, they have adhered to the principles of freedom of speech, which are inviolable in Ukraine. A whole series of recommendations. Our committee will work to get them into, in fact, direct legislative decisions to help protect journalists in Ukraine, journalists, and defenders. And I, after all, stress that freedom of public assembly and freedom of speech are inherent values of Ukrainian society, which will always, always, emphasize it to both Parliament and for Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u11	Thank you, Sergei. Let me finish, please, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u12	It's the "Serve of the People" faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u13	Thank you, Sergey Fedorovich. Rabbi Vadim Zinovovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u14	Dear compatriots, today is a crucial day in the new history of Ukraine. Many tribulations have seen our land, but it has never been sold. Various predecessors stole factories, factories, bracelets, and now new ones came to power -- a new team with new creative blackouts, one of them to sell the land of Ukraine and tell us how well we'll live when the Ukrainian land becomes the property of foreigners. Yesterday, the President said, "vote in the first reading of the sale of land, and then we will definitely file an appeal and hold a referendum." That's brilliant! Just take your word for it to the new government and sell your land. But we have already trusted this authority that it will protect freedom of speech, that it will not push on channels, that it will lower tariffs, and that it will land in the spring. But that was not what was supposed to happen. So no, Mr. President. There is only one appropriate proposal: a national referendum first and then we will see. Everything else is an anti-Ukrainian position. Every intelligent person in every political power realizes that this is not a political issue, it's a question of the survival and existence of our country, our Ukraine. And to all the representatives of the IMF, Soros and others whose grasping hands are reaching for the land of Ukraine, I want to say, you've been calculated, gentlemen, you're not going to get shit from you, not the land of Ukraine! Remember? And whoever doesn't understand Russian, I'll translate, "You'll get the devil of the fox, not the land of Ukraine!" Is that clear? Of course, yes. I therefore urge all to unite in order to protect our earth. If I had a talent, I'd sing "Get Up Country Huge" right now. But I don't have talent, and I don't have a field here. So let me just tell you, let's forget all the political conflicts, forget who's in the political power. Let us remember that we are all children of Ukraine, whose land is being stolen and sold in our eyes. I believe in Ukraine, and those who offer to sell our land do not believe in Ukraine. I believe in Ukraine, and then I'm sure we won't sell the land to Ukraine. No, lady! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u15	Princess Nikola Leonidovich, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u16	Thank you. So the position of "European Solidarity" from several important points. We will not vote in favour of the laws on land debris. We are in the land market, but when the Ukrainian peasant is protected, the minimum price will be high, the Ukrainian farmer will be protected and have priority. And those who want to buy land with pieces of Liechtenstein or Andorra will not be able to do so. And no populist referendums will help the authorities in favor of Ukrainian oligarchs against foreign investors. Next question. We welcome the judgment of the court in The Hague, which recognized Russia as an aggressor. We're very sorry that President Zelensky didn't make a statement unlike our American partners, and he didn't support that decision. We condemn the position of President Zelensky's team, which, according to Ambassador Taylor under oath, claimed that the war was started by Poroshenko, not Putin. Putin started the war, and we will win the war. And finally, freedom of speech. Dear friends, as a former journalist, in 1992, I was the first Ukrainian journalist to be held accountable for slander, and this article was then criminalized by then President Leonid Krawczuk. I've been in detention bonds, I've been sitting in the Attorney General's Office, and now that I see the President's desire to set standards in the media through his orders and laws, when I see the desire of power to punish for fairies, when I see pressure on independent television channels like "Prime" and others, I understand that we're being turned back into Soviet times, we're being turned away from Europe, we're being thrown into chaos. "European Solidarity" is a responsible party that will never hurt any journalist who will do anything to ensure that freedom of speech always prevails in Ukraine and is a key value, as well as other democratic freedoms that the Ukrainian people have chosen and continue to choose in the terrible Russian-Ukrainian war in which we will win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u17	Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! Dear friends! The MPs, like most Ukrainian nations, are now convinced that the earth is a matter of national sovereignty. Friends, we know the latest sociological surveys in Ukraine. We know that 68 percent of Ukrainian citizens who oppose the opening of the land market are Ukrainian citizens. And I am addressing today the majority of this Parliament, which today, like President Zelensky, has won most of the Ukrainian citizens: don't go in the way of social opinion today, which entrusted you with the mandate in May and July of this year. Persuade citizens, hold open meetings, not closed meetings at closed committee meetings. Communicate with the public today under the walls of Parliament, because today there is a huge evening of the "All-Ukrainian Agrarian Council" and political parties. We do not want to politicize this issue, but we want to reach truth and compromise it through discussion. Because if 68 percent of the citizens are "against" and the majority are "for," where is this majority that you represent today in the Ukrainian Parliament? Friends, we want to understand that the land issue is not a question of games, because ratings can be lost quickly, people's trust can be lost quickly, and the land can be disposed of once and for all. We don't have an inventory of land in Ukraine, we don't have an objective market value of land, we don't have a state-owned land bank as a source of financing for the redemption of land for small farmers, we don't have big oligharchic structures that can then resell this land for foreign citizens, foreign investment. We can't sell our farmer land under 2-3 percent of the annual that he can borrow from a government bank, and he can take loans under 20, 18-20 percent of the annual. We don't even know if the IMF is officially requiring us to sell land today. There is no official position of the International Monetary Fund, and we are already hostages of this international organization, that we should make this decision today and put it in order. Guys, we're not at the end of the war. We have a society today divided between how to end it, the Steinmeyer formula. So today we are entering a very dangerous line of opposition. And I think it might affect social stability in society. We realize that the world today is fighting for future food markets in Ukraine and so on. We think of it as a "For the Future" MP and the public think that a moratorium on the land market should be imposed today. We have to go to a referendum and ask people when they want and how to open up the sale of the land market. Let's listen to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u19	Bacunec Pavel Andriyovich, with motive. No, I don't. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u20	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister! I'm not talking about politics today, I'm talking about "ma'am." It's November in the yard, less than four degrees. And the two cities of the Lviv region — Novoyavorysk and the New Division — crossed the threshold of the technological catastrophe. People today are desperate not to let their children go to school. People in despair yesterday are covering international routes and continue to promise a nationwide strike, which I will also support. Today I call on both the district government and our government to take real steps and inform the population and the Novoyavoryska and the New Distribution because they are desperate. Today I demand the government to identify a specific person, which step by step will go until the day that gas is included in the TECs. I urge and invite Mr. Prime Minister to come to Novoyavrovsk and personally run the gas at TEC.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, silence in the hall, please. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Order for Change in the Order of the Day’s Second Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. Please tell me, does this need to be discussed, or can we vote and move on to the subject? The motive is Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u22	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, I'd like to take a second look at the voters of European Solidarity, for which millions of Ukrainians voted in the session room during these months to discriminate against the opposition political power. Unfortunately, our bills are not included in the agenda of the day session. And this week, there are only a few bills that are alternative to the "servicing" laws. It's not enough that in this room there's been some kind of theft of laws that are simply being copied by the opposition bills with notes a, b, b, d, d, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, the main thing is to have the right names. This is the second practice where no European Solidarity Bill has been put into the agenda for two months. And it's not just dishonest in terms of political power, it's shameful in terms of our electorate. We'll hold off on voting for the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u23	Dear colleagues. Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u24	Thank you, Mr. Head. Fatherland won't vote in favour of this ruling either. And I want to remind you: yesterday the President made a request for a referendum on the sale of land to foreigners. Instead, you don't put the bill of referendum into the agenda again. This bill, I want to remind you, 2182 since September 26th. For over a month and a half, we ask you to set up this referendum law and work with it to do what the President of Ukraine says. And the next. You do not make the Law, which we passed in August, to help families with their children. You don't put laws on the land of permanent farm use, and they're standing on the street. Let's respect the legislative initiative of MPs, including MPs who don't belong to the majority, and put all the laws in order and consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u25	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, I would like to point out that we have a 15 percent increase in gas prices since yesterday. Last plenary week, Parliament failed our draft Law 1122. So I insist that at this plenary week we consider either a bill of Law 2126 of our colleagues on lowering the price of gas, or other draft laws, maybe you have your own initiatives, but we have to propose new effective mechanisms to prevent a rise in the price of gas for the population and, most importantly, heating tariffs and hot water. Because in November the price will be higher, and in the future it will also increase. So we have to settle this question and give new formulas so that the price doesn't go up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u27	Thank you. There's a draft decision that you've been offered. Unfortunately, he's got us in a voice right now. You can see we're not voting in the session room. Dear colleagues, have all those who desire to do so been motivated? Then I propose a vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am betting on the vote on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending the agenda for the day-to-day second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 2101-11). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:31:28]] For – 289 Decision taken. 286, I'm sorry. Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Show the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 235, "Response Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 15, "Voice" – 19, "non-factional" – 17. Thank you again. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have a draft registration order for your consideration. Dear colleagues, please be quiet in the hall! My colleagues, thank you very much. Registration number 2400: on a change in the composition of the National Bank Board of Ukraine According to part four of article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the matter is included in the agenda of the day’s session without a vote. According to article 85, paragraph 19, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 210 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and article 10 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act: the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall be appointed to serve as half of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine. In view of Timothy Milovanov’s transition to work in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and his release from office as a member of the National Bank of Ukraine, we need to appoint a new member of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. You guys don't care, do you? Guys, I understand you're having fun. But, Taras Ivanovich, if possible, is still so perceptive. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject. The procedure is defined by article 210 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The report is given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy for Gethmansev Danil Aleksandrovitch. It'll take up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, thank you for your word. I don't think I'll take five minutes. In fact, I'm going to report on the competition that we did within the committee. We of the 23 candidates for the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine have chosen Vitalia Shaprana, who, in our opinion, after a thorough examination of the documents, was the best candidate of all those who submitted. This is a person who has experience in financial analysis in a variety of respectable institutions who are currently working as an analyst, a financial analyst at the National Bank of Ukraine Secretariat. This is a person who is an associate of one of the higher education institutions, or scientific experience. And in fact, in communicating with him on the committee, it was clear that this is one of the few experts in the state in banking, in monetary policy. In view of this, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoint Vitali Shaprano as a member of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please support our recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, further under the Rules, speak from factions, MPs. Is this necessary? Please register with factions and groups. Kitzak Bogdan Viktorovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Alexia Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u31	Alexei Leonov. Is Leonov in the hall? Turn the microphone on from the spot, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u32	Good afternoon! This was supported by the committee, please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u33	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you that when we elect a member of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine and actually replace Timothy Milovanov as today's candidate, I would like to point out that, first, what are the results of the activities of the previous group or council and what is being proposed now? As for the results, we've seen them: 207 percent of the devaluation of the national monetary unit, the decrease in the number of banks, they call it recovery, from 180 to 77 banks, no one says for borrowers and investors anymore. We're talking about the serious, complex structural changes that have taken place over the last five years, we're talking about the fact that the account rate has decreased, it's increased from 6.5 percent to 15.5 percent, and this is an increase in the value of credit, including in the consumer lending market. So when we appoint a new member of the National Bank Board today, it would be important to hear the priorities of monetary policy, in general, that we will have the next five years, where we will move, what will be the accounting rate, what will be the official course of the national monetary unit, and other parameters that will be defined in the country's further economic architecture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u35	Thank you. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u37	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u38	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! You know that the activities of the National Bank depend very much on the stability of the financial system, on the stability of our monetary unit, and on the economic stability of our state in general. And the Council of Nutzbank has always played a role that allowed for a more strategic, more balanced approach to any issue of leadership of the National Bank. And especially was the presence in this Council of the National Bank of Critically Adjusted People, whose thoughts allowed much more balance to test those strategies and those tactical and strategic steps that were then implemented by the National Bank's leadership, and we've all seen them now. And I'd like to say that the activities of the National Bank over the last five years have really been positive, and those august stables that came to power in the 14th year have been cleared up, and many positive things have been done, including thanks to the activities of the NBA Council. And that's why when we talk about today's vote and the election of a member of the NBA Supervisory Board, we think that, with all due respect for Vitali Sergiyovich, there were several candidates who were far superior to both the volume of knowledge and the other indicators of the candidate who is being offered by the committee today. For example, among the candidates was, as I understand it, he also gained very high results, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. I think this figure and this figure, it doesn't need any representation. That's why today's faction of the European Solidarity political party will be held in the vote for this candidacy. But we believe that it is crucial that members of the Supervisory Board of the National Bank of Ukraine do not engage in the activities of the government, not in the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers or other representatives of the government, but in helping the National Bank to carry out its own independent policy, as it is intended and is the essence of the National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? I propose to proceed to the vote. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote and take your seats. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and for the whole of the draft Order on Change in the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine (Registration No. 2400). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:41:43]] For – 268 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Thank you. I welcome you, I wish you success in your new post. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You have been invited to consider the draft Act amending the Law on the Voluntary Integration of Territorial Communities (to simplify the procedure for the approval of forward-looking plans for the formation of the territories of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, districts) (registration No. 2189). I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[10:42:35]] For – 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the report is given to the deputy minister for the development of the communities and territories of Negoda Viacheslav Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u40	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! You have a very brief but very important bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on voluntary unification of territorial communities (to simplify the procedure for the approval of forward-looking plans for the formation of community territories). Among the top priorities of decentralization are the formation of capable territorial communities that are able to solve local problems and challenges from organizing their living space. It is very important that the process of forming the territories of future capable communities be completed, I would stress, until the next local elections. To this end, the government has introduced this bill, which is proposed. First, simplify the mechanism for approving the forward-looking plans for the formation of community areas by excluding from this process their mandatory approval by appropriate district councils. Second, to complete the list of conditions for voluntary unification with the requirement that this process be carried out in line with approved prospects rather than, at times, chaotic. The need for such changes is due to the complexity of the processes that have taken place over the course of five years of reforming the local self - government system, during which there have been a number of shortcomings that continue to hinder the creation of capable communities. Often, the district councils ignored the approved criteria for the formation of capable communities. As a result, many regions still lack promising plans to cover the area. For example, in the Odessa region, the outlook covers only 40 percent of the areas in Kyiv, 54 in Vinnitsky, 56 in Cherkaske, 75. Another important argument in favour of the bill is that more than 80 OTG, in which the CEVC announced the December elections this year, cannot be recognised.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u41	Give me 10 seconds to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u42	cannot be recognized as capable and unable to move on to an inter-budget relationship because they are not in the long run. Ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption of these changes, we will have new opportunities for reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u43	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of the city of Bezgin Vitali Juriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u44	Good afternoon, Presidium! Good afternoon, dear fellows! In fact, decentralization reform is a theme that has to be integrated, regardless of the political flags, because it is its success that determines the ability of our communities, its future. It wasn't our team that started this reform, and we're giving it to the previous government, but at the same time, we're convinced that the current Supreme Council and the new government are able to bring it to an end. It is this bill that is the first in the list to be completed for centralization prepared by the Ministry of Profiles. At its meeting on 9 October 2019, the Committee on State Authorities, Local Government, Regional Development and Urban Development considered draft Ukrainian Law No. 2189, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Act on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities and to establish that the unification of territorial communities is being carried out in accordance with the forward-looking plans for the formation of the territories of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea communities, the areas. The bill states that the forward-looking plans for the formation of the territories of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the districts are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the submission of the relevant district government. The All - Ukrainian Association of Local Self - Government Authorities, the Association of Cities of Ukraine as a whole, supports the proposed simplification of the process of approving promising plans. At the same time, the Association believes that to ensure the implementation of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, it is necessary to provide mechanisms for the involvement of local self-government authorities in consultations, and the appropriate initiative already has an answer from the committee and from the Ministry. Following a comprehensive discussion of the issue, the Committee adopted a conclusion: recommending to the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the First and Part Two of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Law on the Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities (to simplify the procedure for the approval of forward-looking plans) on the basis and overall of the first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u45	Thank you. It's all right, isn't Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Make a deal. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, and two in, against. Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Angelica Labunski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u47	Labunsky Angela Victorian.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u48	Good day, colleagues. Good day. Angelica Labunska, faction of Fatherland. I understand that today there is a majority in this Supreme Council, and the bill that the government has passed today is likely to be adopted. But let's remember the slogans that the President went to the elections with and that he promised our citizens. He promised, one of the slogans was Decentralization. What do we see today, not only in this bill, but in other laws that are being passed today? There is a complete centralization of power today, a disenfranchisement of authority in local communities, and a complete commitment to Kiev. Yes, I realize that the previous authorities have adopted such bills, and in the form of the creation of united territorial communities today, Ukrainian villages are being destroyed. Because there is not enough budget today to finance villages that are far away from the center of the united territorial community. I realize that the principle before is that if there is a candidate from the governing coalition who can win the election on the head of a united territorial community, this is the way forward. But if we say we're changing the country today, then let's, if you say, shorter way, then let's clean up the district administrations and the district councils even if we go. And let's get the documents directly to the Cabinet of Ministers. You can't remove district councils from this process today. Regrettably, today’s governors are not residents of those areas. And do you think that the MPs who were elected today in the district councils are worse aware of how to approve a forward-looking plan? That's right, no. Colleagues, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u49	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u50	Let's get this law back to work. And then, even if we just clean up the district administrations and directly approve the outlook.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u51	Thank you. Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u53	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u54	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! The Voice program made it clear that Voice supports decentralization reform. Why we support her. Because authority and resources should be as close as possible to people. Because the level of decision-making -- where to learn where to heal, where to build and where to create opportunities for business -- should be the community, not somewhere far downtown. That's why these things, and in general the reform and the decentralization process, the Voice faction absolutely supports. But what the Voice faction doesn't support. We do not support the turbines to complete the decentralization process. We don't support an accelerated and any other accelerated regime for reviewing changes to the Constitution, especially at a time when our country is fighting, and at a time when decentralization can be reversed by the federalization process. We also realize that this bill clearly sets out the importance of forward-looking plans. So there are many more suggestions that need to be taken into account. That's why the Voice faction will support this bill in the first reading. We are absolutely in favour of a gradual and logical completion of decentralization reform. But we stress the importance of having enough consultation, communication and dialogue with the communities to take into account all the constructive proposals for change into perspective plans, and so that we don't do stupid things in an accelerated mode, we don't turn this reform into a big risk and a threat to the country. We will support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u55	Thank you. Mikola Skorik, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u56	People's MP Skorik, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The Opposition Platform for Life faction has decided not to support the bill. This is due to the fact that a number of district councils were addressed to the Supreme Council with appropriate addresses adopted at the sessional sessions regarding the non - adoption of the bill. We find these references to be perfectly logical, given that cleaning up a series of district councils from this chain is absolutely wrong, it's a violation of their competence, it's a violation of the Local Self-Government Act. In general, what's going on with the so-called territorial reform is absolutely insane. I believe that the President should resume the work of the Constitutional Commission and really engage in constitutional reform, not repeat the mistakes of his predecessors who blocked this work, not take away certain points from the Constitution. And if we really are the new Supreme Council, we're going to adopt a new constitution, including with regard to the administration and the authority of the local government. Today, according to this law, we are actually removing the area from this process. In view of the fact that we now have areas that exist only on paper because there are already so - called united communities in their territory, you need to understand that if three or four or five poor communities are united, they will not become richer. And what's happening is going to happen on the basis of discussion. And the key question, the key word in this law must be voluntary. What you now offer to accept is a total involuntary union. It forces communities to take these steps and is not right, nor is it just. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u57	Thank you, Mikola Leonidovich. Wait. Friz. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u58	Thank you. Pottery, Clothing, European Solidarity. Dear friends, you know, the deliberate destruction of institutions in the state continues. We've already seen about the Central Election Commission. Parliament has been turned into a notary office that prints anything that comes from Bank and Gruszewski. We can see it, there's pressure on the media from morning to night. It's all clear. And one of the institutions that the Servants of the Nation destroy is local self-government. Look for ourselves, we are now introducing a bill that proposes to remove the district councils from the process of creating a new united territorial community by approving the development plan. How could it be, please tell me? The District Council is chosen by the people to represent the interests, common interests of the communities. I understand that there's probably no one in the "People's Servants" who worked as a district council member, and maybe there's a few, tops. And it's normal when a person was a member of the local council and then became a member of the Supreme Council, not from a wedding photographer. But we can see that it's all happening the other way around. And people don't even understand, they don't even understand why district councils are needed in the state. The district councils must create all the mechanisms and do so so that, indeed, these communities will be united, able, truly needed by the nations. And to whom do you propose to give it to the governors? We already see your governors. You've invented a new type of governor, the Governor of the Fast-Drived. In two months, the governors from Cherkaschina, Luhanskina, Kyiv region flew out. Who will appoint you? These governors who don't know the name of the cities you sent them to in those areas? So this is a project. Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u59	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u60	Thank you. This project is a project to destroy local self-government. Don't say anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u61	Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u62	Larissa Bilozer, 15th constituency, Winnitzkin, Future Group. Dear friends, I urge you to support this Law 2189. Because right now we've got some promising plans, really, a dead end. All the areas that were supposed to take them were accepted. Fifteen areas have adopted these promising plans, Volinska, Dnipropetrovska. Harkovsky. It's a hop. But look, there are areas where 80 communities today can't go into direct inter-budget relations. Because of the long-term procedure, communities are losing a lot of money because there are certain interests that need to be balanced at the level of district councils. I think the district councils should finally be excluded from this process. But of course, those groups that will be working groups formed at the ODA, there, I think, need to include people's deputies, who as no one know the problems of their communities and who will not engage in these urban interests. So I ask you very much to support this bill, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u63	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u64	which is actually blocking the creation of normal, capable communities today. In fact, voluntary unification has exhausted itself. Here we have to do it already.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u65	Thank you. Lucenjak Mikola Volodymyrovich, with motive, one minute. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u66	Mikola Lušnjak, 166th District, Ternopilska. Dear Mr. Chairman and Honorary Fellow People’s Deputies, today four years have passed since Ukraine took the decentralization course. For four years district councils, local councils, national deputies, heads of administrations had a chance to influence the process of decentralization. There are many mistakes today, many successes. But believe me, if we have to complete this process of decentralization today, because the country is changing today because decentralization, when we pass the maximum taxes, the maximum authority of local self-government, then the country will change, you won't have to drive to Kiev, you don't have to fight corruption, you don't have to fight corruption, you don't need such a great Supreme Council. I'm talking to the President, the Prime Minister, so that we can quickly complete the decentralization and move on to the second stage, because in this time of time, some countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u67	Thank you. Long Olese Stanislavovich, a minute of motive. All of it. Dear colleagues, wait a second! And then we move on to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I will now take advantage of my time by touching more on the issues of my district. I'm a major elected in 102 constituency in Kirovgrad. I want to say that today, in fact, throughout the country, a heated season has begun, with the exception of a few large and small cities. In my district, the largest city is Svetłovodsk, where 40,000 people live, and all 40,000 people are actually frozen today for the third week in a row. The city of Svetłovodsk may turn into the next Bold or the next Alcevsk. I turned to the Prime Minister, and I turned to the NAK Naftogazu leadership. Thank God, the governor was introduced yesterday, and I had a half - hour meeting with him this morning, and he promised to touch me on his side. What am I asking? I ask from the high court of Parliament to reach out and pay attention to the leadership of Naftogazu NAK, the head of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u69	Thank you, Olesia Stanislavovich. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u70	To keep the entire 40th city from freezing. I would like to thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities (Registration No. 2189). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:03:39]] For – 283 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The committee recommended the adoption of the bill as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then it is proposed to cut the lines by half. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Not in principle, well, two weeks -- we'd better get ready for the second reading. Dear colleagues. No, this is not contrary to the Rules. I understand. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, put to the vote the proposal to cut down half the time and submit proposals and rights and prepare for second reading (registration number 2189). Please support and vote. [[11:04:50]] For – 258 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to amend some of the laws of Ukraine (register No. 2260). We need to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session in order to consider it today. Please support this proposal. I am voting on the proposal to apply the ad hoc procedure in relation to the bill. to see at this plenary meeting. There's a committee proposal. Let's move on to the consideration, they'll explain. Dear colleagues, I would like to put this motion to the vote, please support and vote. [[11:05:58]] For – 273 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:06:23]] For – 257 Decision taken. Let us turn to this bill. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Shkrum Aloni Ivanovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u72	Good afternoon, dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! This bill amends many of Ukraine’s laws regarding matters of public service and the separation of political positions from those of public service. You won't believe it, but this bill had a very long way to go, it was registered back in July 2016, registered then and signed up, and supported by all members of the committee of all factions, the Committee of Local Self-Government and State Administration. Sadly, though, it has never been considered since 2016. Why? Because it was our chance and it was an opportunity to separate the public service, the professional, the political, the political, the political, the political influence and other business interests, including politicians. These are our European commitments, this is absolutely a European practice, when we try to make the public service in many bodies more professional and independent of changing governments. In fact, today we have a very weak public service according to the quality of our institutions and international ratings. We would very much like the public service in the organs to be results-oriented, not tons of paper and process for the sake of the process. That's why this bill also, in agreement with the government and colleagues of the "Services of the People" faction, amended Ukraine's legislation on the application of electronic forms of documents, and I think it would also be right. The bill amends the State Service Act on the Ukrainian Security Service, the Court of Auditors, the Central Electoral Commission, the National Security and Defence Council. And the actual changes all agreed with them. You know, colleagues, well-known economist Neil Ferguson was in Ukraine, and he said that our government authorities and government authorities, and institutions, they look like the valleys of Tanzania. But in what sense? In a sense, there are government institutions that are gran's antelopes, and they eat grass peacefully, they're attacked by government predator institutions, and there's government institutions -- hunters and parasites, and there's a lot of them in the country. We are now trying to make the public service more professional, because an economically developed country is only possible where there are professional, independent and effective public authorities and the people who work there. So I'm going to ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u73	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the subcommittee on matters of public authority, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u74	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, the Committee on the Organization of Government, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development and Urbanization at its meeting on October 30, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws (registration number 2260), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Skrum, Bezginim, Besugola, Kornienkom. As a result of the review, the committee approved: recommending to the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 114 of the First Rule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a bill on the basis of the first reading. Taking into account the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office on the need for the drafting of the bill, the Committee asked the Head of the Supreme Council to announce, in accordance with part one of the 116th Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, during the consideration of the matter at the plenary meeting, the need for proposals and amendments to amend, clarify, correct errors because of conflicts in the text of the bill, other structural parts of the bill and/or other legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading and correspond to the subject of legal regulation of the bill. My point is that this is a continuation of the reform of the State Service, which we started with Law 1066. Ms. Skrum recently quoted statistics: already, indeed, about 40 A officials have been released under this new procedure and some 20 have already been appointed. I'm a member of the High Corps Commission, and then I can tell everyone who's interested in telling them what's going on. In principle, the changes that are in the service, they go, we want to invite Mr. Dubilet to report on the layoffs, on the cuts that are happening, on the guarantees of those officials that we shorten. But it is precisely this process of reform of the state service that is essential and will continue to move. As for this law specifically, it organizes the service in a very large number of organs (about 40, it seems, we've touched the organs), and it doesn't even have a name, in this law, because it's a law that changes many laws. Therefore, a request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u75	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes! That's why I'm asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please invite the National Deputy of Ukraine Klimpush-Cincadze Ivana Orestovna. You will? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u76	Paulie Rostislav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u77	National MP Rostislav Pavlovenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u78	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished voters! You know, it looks like a robbery race becomes the national sport of this Parliament. Respectable previous speakers spoke of this law as following the so - called reform of the State Service (draft 1066). You know, this is the result of "crazy printer" from the first days of our work, when some holes are now trying to patch up, but unfortunately, they're only deepening the problem created by these changes to the laws. It is clear that a bill that has been drafted in the past in Parliament, but whether during preparation or pre-processing or whatnot, has been proposed standards that make this project unacceptable. First of all, it's about further weakening the rights of government officials and expanding the opportunities for them to be freed for a political moment in order to take the right people, replacing those who work and have experience, and then changing them over and over again, as we've seen for a long time. Secondly, the introduction of the rules of this law will create confusion, confusion and conflict. Especially with regard to the improvement of electronic forms of communication, when a whole series of standards conflict with existing laws. And with regard to the regulations concerning the Ministry of Defence and the Ukrainian Security Service, war in the country is highly questionable. Therefore, honourable colleagues, we will refrain from supporting this draft law and call, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 3, of the Rules, for this bill to be sent to the committee for further work and have the opinion of the Committee on Security, Defence and Intelligence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u79	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. Schrummy? Alona Ivanovna's starch. Out of place, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u80	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, Fatherland, will certainly support this bill. I've already mentioned that he's been through a long waiting period since 2016. But we have to be honest with ourselves, and with all the Ukrainians, that this only bill will not solve all the problems and all the issues of reform and government and government service in Ukraine. Unfortunately, and I've said this publicly on more than one occasion, the Government's Action Programme says very little about reform of government. Without reforming the public authorities, without being professional, independent, efficient and professional, Ukraine will not be able to raise its economic growth and ensure it. This is proven by all possible and impossible international ratings. We would also like to point out that the Public Administration Reform Strategy has been adopted, where one of the first points is that we should require the Government to conduct a comprehensive functional examination of each state body. We have so many old Soviet government functions today that these authorities no longer need. And we can shorten people in government, only by reducing unnecessary functions, not arbitrarily by political or non-political indicators and feelings. So, colleagues, we would very much like to hear from the government what will be the strategy for reforming state institutions and public service in the country? Whether and how a comprehensive functional survey will be carried out and the reduction of unnecessary functions that provide nothing for people and citizens of Ukraine today, will only create obstacles to the development of citizens, their services and the development of Ukrainian business and international business in the country. And I think it's right to have this discussion in the walls of the Supreme Council and to understand how, in a year from an old, bureaucratic, Soviet government, we want to move to a new, strong, efficient country. Without this, I regret to repeat, the economic development of Ukraine will be impossible. That's why we support this bill. We're working on it for the second reading. And then we need to talk comprehensively about reforming state bodies in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please be quiet! Because there's a lot of noise in the room. Colleagues. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speech is given by Osadchuk Andrija Pavlovich. Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u82	Petrovich. Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u83	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, every time we raise any questions concerning the public service, I would like us to remember the figure of 220,000 -- that's exactly how many government officials of all levels are in our country. And all the questions that we're looking at are about 220,000 people. In fact, the idea of this bill is based on what has been said to be a very healthy one since 2016. And the authors have set a lot of good standards there, but in the process of processing we see here a repetition of the same problems and the same weak places that we saw in Law 1066. One is the principle of weakening the protection of government officials. And to avoid being loud, I'm going to remind you of the number that has been the result of the Law 1066 -- 40 top-level officials have been released in the last two months -- that's about a quarter of all government officials in category A. Reason? This principle was laid down in Law 1066. At present, no cases have been opened for these government officials. I really want all of us not to abuse the protection of civil servants, so that we can remember that this applies to 220,000 people, and this applies to the great institution of public service, and that no initiative of ours is aimed at weakening, and vice versa only at strengthening. And we absolutely agree with this principle that the government should develop a strategy for state service, a strategy for promotion, including the conditions for the conduct of the service, including financial assets, and also organizational. And now, by making them government officials, really helpless and defenseless, we're not building that kind of government service.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u85	Thank you. Makarenko Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u86	Please pass the word to Mr Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u87	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u88	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Union, the citizens of Ukraine, I am particularly interested in civil servants. You know, this bill is a great example of how the bill is being drafted by people who don't really realize that it's a public service that they haven't worked on the public service for days, but they want to write some standards without even realizing what it's all about. We are told that this bill has been in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for several years. So you'd take, you'd turn to people who know what a government service is, and they'd write this bill to you, and you wouldn't look like you look on the Supreme Council stand right now -- unprepared and completely unaware of the substance of this matter. Dear colleagues, you can't write bills for the purposes of any authority. You've made state officials completely unprotected from the will of the chiefs, from the abolition of the political forces. Instead of writing laws today and making the main value in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine a person so that you can write out constitutional rights of civil servants and officials of local self - government bodies. You can't just trample on people like that. It is not possible to get people released without compensation without providing them with protection, social protection, and social protection for their families. Our faction of political "The Opposition Platform for Life" will vote against this bill. Because when we went to the elections, we made it clear that it is our priority to protect the rights and freedoms of citizens, including the protection of civil servants. I urge the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine to vote against this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u89	Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, motivated. And then we go to the vote. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote and take your seats. Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u90	Please pass the word to Mrs. Larissa Bilozer of the Future Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u91	Again, I'm sorry.? Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u92	Colleagues, the project is designed in connection with the need to introduce certain laws into the Ukrainian State Service Act, but according to the analysis of the bill, it is necessary to revise it to apply the electronic form of documents in the definition of automatic electronic document processing, the obligation to sign a citizen, the procedure for examining the appeals of communities by authorized persons. And here you have to be very careful not to discriminate against the rights of citizens. And there is also this point regarding the termination of the public service at the initiative of the target entity without the agreement of the elected body of the primary professional organization. Trade, of course, against. Therefore, our group will generally support the bill in its first reading, but it must be finalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the Committee for consideration in preparing for the second reading of the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office in accordance with article 166 of the Draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (registration No. 2260). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:23:18]] For – 273 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Show by factions. "People's Servant" – 234, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 20, "For the Future" – 12, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 7. Thank you again. Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving higher education (registration No. 2299). Ladies and gentlemen, I propose we consider this bill in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:24:19]] For – 248 Decision taken. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Babak Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u94	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today I am presenting a bill of Law 2299, which provides for substantial changes in the legislative regulation of the educational sector and aims to further develop higher education and ensure its quality. What's new about this bill? The licensing procedures in the field of higher education are greatly simplified, the licensing of about 100 specialties is cancelled, the licensing of educational activities remains at a certain level of higher education. There are changes in the entrance to higher education facilities. Thus, the bill provides for increased access to higher education for residents of the temporarily occupied territories, the introduction of a motivational letter, the increase in the value of creative competitions at competitive points, and the need for a single introductory examination from a foreign language. Conditions are being created for the development of interdisciplinary educational programs, joint educational programs, and double diplomas. Predicted refusal of a state model and determination at the legislative level of the student-oriented curriculum in higher education institutions. Changed approaches have been taken to providing higher education institutions with national status, but, at the same time, the requirements for the granting of research status, the identification of the features of its function and administration are being strengthened, but a substantial proportion of the responsibilities of national and research universities are being transferred to all higher education institutions. Separate structural units are being organized and conditions are being provided for the implementation of completely foreign programs. A dual form of education is introduced, which involves combining higher education and higher education in workplaces. The Committee supports this draft law and requests that a decision be taken to prepare for the second reading on a reduced basis because of the need for rapid changes to the conditions for admission to higher education facilities by the Ministry of Education and Science, in order to ensure that these innovations are operational as early as next year. Please support and accept as a basis in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u95	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head of the committee’s committee on education, science, innovations, and Grishiny Yulia Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u96	Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues! Today we are looking at a bill aimed at solving a set of problems that have accumulated in higher education and which are an obstacle to improving its quality and further development. By adopting this law, we are modernizing higher education and bringing it closer to European standards. Our goal is to integrate Ukraine into the only educational space with Western countries. This will help our students and teachers to work more closely with European universities. For Ukrainian universities, licensing is greatly simplified, on the one hand; on the other hand, it is significantly complicated when it comes to highly responsible professions. The admission procedure will become more modern: a motivational letter will be introduced and the results of the international Olympics will be taken into account. Higher education is undergoing significant transformations that will help it to be successful and competitive. Because right now, Ukrainian universities are facing a new, difficult task -- to compete for Western graduates. On October 30th, 19th, at its meeting, the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill 2299 on a basis and prepare it for second reading on a simplified procedure. The conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine were the basis for the session's consideration of the bill. Colleagues, I call on everyone who cares about the fate of higher education in Ukraine to support Bill 2299 and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two against factions. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u98	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! "Paternity" supports this bill in the first reading. Above all, it is designed to improve the quality of higher education, to increase the role and autonomy of universities, and in this regard, the authors can be thanked for their professional approach to resolving many of the issues in this field, for harmonizing the requirements of this law with other special educational laws. What should we work on in our second reading? What's "Paternity" going to focus on? First. Part two of article 6: The stated proposal of the authors is vague and can lead to abuse, and therefore a specific period of time should be drawn up, during which a higher education institution may cancel its decision on the award of a higher education degree. And this is actually the competence of the university or the National Higher Education Agency? The other one. There is a need for more clear regulation of the procedure of the licensee in the event that the licensing authority does not accept any decision on the licensing of educational activities. Third. The motivational letter of the intro to the university is a new and creative idea, but counting the points for such letters can inevitably lead to subjectivity and put candidates under unequal conditions. Four. A single introductory examination from a foreign language is offered on the way to a master’s degree. Do we not minimize the number of students we have and cause even more of them to flow abroad? And the fifth. Perhaps it is not appropriate to take the ball for the special success of the U.S. student Olympics and the members of the Small Academy of Sciences. Perhaps it was a good motivation, which today is to keep it. In general, "Paternity" in the first reading supports, secondly, I think we're going to work out and improve the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u99	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. Odarchenko Andriy Mikolaiovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Anatoly Drabowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u101	Again, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u102	Drabowski. Anatoly Drabowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u103	Drabov's Anatolia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u104	Thank you. Anatoly Drabowski, "Serve of the People." I'm a group of academics who are members of the People's Servants, and we support this progressive law, this progressive project, and we're counting on it to bring new quality to education, new pace, new development. But I would like to confirm that Babak Sergey Vitaliyovich discussed it widely, we argued, we discussed some issues. And I would like to warn you that there are some points that need to be discussed before the second reading. Yes, for technicians and college graduates, this project introduces a total amount of COD. We understand, educated people, especially those who worked in the education sector, that some of these graduates will not be able to continue to study at universities and institutes in a short period of time. This will create conditions for thousands more of our students to go to work or to study in Poland. And on the other hand, there's not going to be a number of hours for teachers, there's not going to be a job, and it's going to create social tension in the education field. So I emphasize that we support this law, it's progressive, but we ask you to work on these points for the second reading. We are ready to discuss them again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u105	Thank you. Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich, "Golos" faction. Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u106	Inna Sowsun, Voice faction. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider a bill amending the draft Higher Education Act, which was adopted in the summer of 2014. In 2014, the law that was passed on to Higher Education at the time was progressive. But it must be admitted that almost 10 years have passed since the beginning of the draft law. And obviously, there are a lot of standards for the Higher Education Act today that need to be changed and redesigned. It must also be admitted that the valid Higher Education Act partly contains the result of compromises in very difficult political conditions at that time. That's why it's time to review the bill today. The Higher Education Act, and that's what this bill does. It's because the previous composition of the Ministry has drafted this bill, which is being put into the hall today, and it's being prepared for removal to the hall. Bill 2299 contains some progressive norms, such as the simplification of the university licensing procedure, specific sanctions for violations of academic integrity, the possibility of creating bilingual programs, where part of the courses are taught in English. These are positive changes that certainly need to be maintained. But at the same time, I want everyone in the room to know that some of the norms are very dangerous. We've already heard about the motivational letter. Even though the bill foresees that a motivational letter can only make up 1 percent of the competition, but, at the same time, it creates very important corruption opportunities in universities, especially in very prestigious specialties, where the difference between entrants who enter or do not enter may be hundreds of points. I'm already talking about what extra stress this will create for university professors who will have to check hundreds and sometimes thousands of additional motivational letters during the introductory campaign. But perhaps the main problem with the bill is that it lacks systemic change that would change the underlying problems that are now in higher education. That is why I am grateful today for the parliamentary leadership that today was included in the agenda of the bill I have proposed with my colleagues on reforming the financing of universities. I look forward to his open-minded consideration in order to address systemic problems in higher education in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u107	Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u108	Please pass the word to Mrs. Irina Konstankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u109	Irina Miroslavna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u110	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Now I want to say that the Future Group supports this bill. And we think that it's really progressive, and that it's really going to turn into a better situation in Ukrainian universities in the future. What do we do as major MPs who support this bill? We know more than anyone the real situation in regional universities, we know the critical situation in many universities, which unfortunately cannot cope with the economic failure that the outflow of foreign students cannot cope with, unfortunately, with the job situation. And there are many real problems in regional universities. So we hope that this bill, it will open up the possibility of solving the issue of university autonomy, that's what's most important. This bill will open up opportunities to finance a powerful university. This bill will open up opportunities for the creative and scientific development of the curriculum. And what's important is that we're always repeating as mantras: universities are the locomotives of progress. I want our universities to become real locomotives for our social progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u111	Thank you, Irina Miroslavina. All the factions came out. Now there's going to be two more speeches with a motive. Then we go to the vote. Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, "European Solidarity". After that, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u112	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Rostislav Pavlovenko, "European Solidarity". Dear colleagues, this bill was developed, indeed, by the previous composition of the government, worked with all interested parties, and was ready for introduction this spring. And it's a good thing we're looking at it here in the hall. As has already been said, it contains a number of positive positions that simplify licensing, simplify the introduction mechanisms, and allow the process to be revived. But education is a question where there's no change. So I urge the second reading to pay great attention, first of all, to the question of introduction. It has already been said that there is no point in introducing a motivational letter. The second is the question of preserving and increasing the benefits for our veterans of entering the NPA and learning opportunities there. And the third is a very important question of so-called authorized universities to teach people from temporarily occupied territories. First of all, there's a possibility for students in Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u113	Let me finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u114	Thank you. Thus, to strengthen opportunities for students from temporarily occupied territories. We support the first reading. But we'll keep a close eye on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u115	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich is a motive. Then we go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u116	Dear Mr. Head, I ask you to give the word to Alexander Lukashev, Lukashev Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u117	Alexander Lukashev. Turn the microphone on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u118	Thank you. Lukashev Alexander, 113 district, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, on the calendar of November 12th. And finally, we waited for the hands to reach the Supreme Council on education issues. Although Prime Minister Alexei Honcharuk convinced Ukrainian society in August that education is the first thing we need to focus on. I'd like to say about the idea of university autonomy. If this bill prohibits the establishment of territorially separated divisions in the cities of Kiev, Kharkiv, Lviv, Odessa, Dniper, which autonomy is referred to as a direct intervention and restriction of the legal personality. I'm not talking about the student-oriented anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u119	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u120	If we are effectively nullifying the right of access to higher education, which is guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of higher education (registration No. 2299). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:41:32]] For – 311 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee asked to shorten the preparations for the second reading. I am voting on the proposal that, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for the submission of proposals and rights and to prepare for the second reading of the bill, registration number 2299. Please support and vote. [[11:42:19.]] For – 273 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. You are invited to consider the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Electricity Market (registration number 2233 and three alternatives: 2233-1, 2233-2, 2233-4). It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[11:43:05]] For – 269 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kamelchuk Yuri Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u122	Yuri Kamelchuk, 124th constituency, Red Town, north of Lviv. Respectable Ukrainians, respected colleagues, are now serious. To your attention, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Electricity Market. Bill 2233 addresses a number of critical issues. First. NCRECR has the right to set a TEC tariff, which is a prerequisite for the adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ordinance on Special Responsibilities. This will allow TEC to work during the heating season and not accumulate damage, otherwise damage, inability to pay for gas and the crisis during the heating season. The other one. Bill 2233 continues to operate the license of NEC "Krennergo" until its certification. That's a critical question. Because KK Krennergo lost his license by the end of October, and the possible consequences are the following: a crisis of accounts, i.e. a dispute of accounts, a fine, a creditor's right to demand repayments over time, which is $500 million, and unfortunately it's been possible since October 29. Third. n233h and is the author of the alternative law 2233-1, I propose today not to support any of these bills or such an act233h and is the author of the alternative law 2233-1, I propose today that neither of these bills nor such a act allow a guaranteed buyer to direct profits to perform special duties. Four. NCRECR has the right to establish primers to prevent price increases. The Pryskeps are failing in April of the following year. NCRECR has the right to oblige manufacturers to make market applications in advance so that they do not abuse the ability to create artificial deficits and thus increase market prices. Simply put, we are taking an important step to regulate tariffs and secure a calm autumn-winter period. Bill 2233 is critical now. Please support him and vote in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u123	Thank you. The report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Grib Victoria Alexandrovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I'd like a moment of your attention. I have great respect for my colleague Kamelchuk, Mr. Yuri. But I want to tell you that this law, it doesn't solve the problems he's talking about. On the other hand, he is causing a lot of problems to us, the country of Ukraine, directly with the European Union, because Ukraine has an obligation to agree with the European Union on all laws in the energy field. And what do we have today? There was already the first law on nuclear energy that disagreed with the European Union. What led to this? This has led us to have Russian electricity in the market today. It's the second law now, the same. And although I am the author of the alternative law 2233-1, I suggest you today not support any of these bills: neither 2233 nor 2233-1, 2, 3, 4. Why are we doing this? We are only doing this to direct these bills to the European Commission. Yesterday, by the way, we had a meeting of the Committee on European Integration that fully supported this approach, and they showed in their decision that Law 2233 did not meet the requirements of our interaction with the European Commission, with the European Union. 2233-1, he's more of a respondent, but he needs to be referred to the European Commission today. And that's why I also registered Decree 23.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u125	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u126	First, we really need to look at those decisions, go to the European Commission, and only after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u127	Thank you. The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u128	Good afternoon! Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. I would like to agree with my colleague that 2233 is actually canceling the electricity market reform mechanism, and I'm going to agree somewhere on the issue that all of these bills, 2233 and all the alternatives, are being sent just to agree with European society. But 2233-2, as I understand it, was supported by the Committee on European Integration as one that does not conflict exactly with the commitments of Ukraine that they made when entering the EU's single energy system. So, to the judgment of the hall. I'm going to ask you to support my bill 2233-2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u129	Thank you. The word for the report is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Volodymyr Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! Honorable Predestination! The electricity market rules are set to 01.04. 2020: The price limits for the sale of electricity in the market over the period considered are 164 per kilowatt/hour. This level of price today does not satisfy the heat generation, TEC or TES, congeners, installations to cover the market value of coal fuel at the level of 1900-1950 bracelets per tonne, gas at the level of 5,000 392 bracelets per cubic meter. The situation is also deepened by the availability of debt to the old model of the DP "Energy" market for electricity in the first half of 2019. It should also be noted that today there is a problem of supply of brand "A" coal through restrictions on exports of energy resources to Ukraine. Yes, Luhanské TES is already forced to work exclusively on natural gas, and other heat plants due to the lack of coal in this brand during the winter peak will also have to switch to gas. In such circumstances, there is a risk of heating - generation enterprises by April 2020, which may run out of coal and natural gas. As a result, they will not be able to provide heat and electricity to the populations of the surrounding regions. In this regard, in order to ensure the continuous period of the autumn-winter period 2019-2020 and the warning of possible crisis situations, it is proposed that a decision be made to rely on a guaranteed buyer of special obligations to compensate for the difference between the market price and the fixed price of electricity produced by TEC and TES, exclusively on natural gas, until the end of the heating season.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u131	Thank you. Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u132	In principle, I want to say that there are no such restrictions and in order for there to be no compensators, today we just need to unlock, lift the blockade from Donbas to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to the head of the Energy and Housing Committee, Gerus Andry Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u134	Good afternoon, Presidium! Good afternoon, dear fellows! On October 16, 2019, the Committee on Energy and Housing reviewed draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on the Electricity Market (registration No. 2233, 2233-1, 2233-2). The draft Law 2233 proposes to address the issue of special duties in the purchase of electricity at a green tariff, the non-admission of an uncontrollable increase in the price of electricity. It also gives us the right to oblige electricity producers to apply for the sale of electricity in the market in advance of prices that do not exceed the limits in order to prevent the creation of artificial deficits that we have had a place in September of this year. By July 1, 2023, the regulator was also given the right to set market prices in advance, stressing the limits, this would not be the price of regulation, because market pricing would take place, but limited the possibility of speculative price increases in certain periods of time. In addition, the draft law is to provide heating during the heating period 2019-2020 by regulating the work of TEC in the new electricity market. To this end, by April 1, 2020, the regulator has the right to set tariffs at the level of self - worth for the release of electricity to TEC-operated producers, according to a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to impose special duties. The committee's decision is to support Bill 2233 as a whole and to reject Bills 2233-1 and 2233-2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u135	Thank you, Andry Mikhailovich. Two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u136	I'd like to give the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u137	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we, as a country, have declared a course for European integration, more than that, both the government and the President, and the Parliament, have supported a number of key directions for Ukraine's sectoral integration into the European Union. One of these is energy. In order for this to be irreversible, we have approved in the Supreme Council Appendix XXVII to the Association Agreement that any change to Ukraine's energy legislation must be accepted in writing with the European Commission. If we don't, it means that you and I are simply, again, undermining our prospects for real integration into the European Union's energy markets. I would like to refer these bills to the European Commission and only after the conclusion has been reached do we decide whether or not to take them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u139	Thank you. Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u140	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! Well, thesis first. This bill cannot be called "amendments to the Power Market Act," it's about cancelling the electricity market, so to speak. Thesis two. When you get into a hole, you have to stop digging. This is the basic will for all reformers. Today there's an attempt to dig this hole further. Mr. Head, I looked closely at the observation board yesterday, and I was very surprised when the Prime Minister at this meeting said that he was informed by the European Commission and the Euro-Energy Society that supported this bill. It's a complete nonsense, it's a complete feedback, signed by Mr. Copac. First of all, they're fooling the top leaders of the state, that's all. Well, it's very disturbing. Now what do I have to say? Another suggestion I have to make is why none of these bills can be supported. Dear friends, there is such an organ, the National Energy and Utilities Commission. Four new members were appointed literally a week ago by the President of Ukraine, Zelenski. Please tell me the honourable drafters of the bill, and you have reconciled your bills with an organ that is 100 times more responsible for the real situation in the market. Not even the reverend minister, Orgel, answers today: His weights are minimal enough there, and it is the national commission that has the highest priority today. So I support the fact that we need to consult with the Europeans and to consult with the official opinion of the national commission. And the last. Dear friends, 20 years ago there was a series of violent power cuts in Ukraine. At the time, Mrs. Timoshenko was vice-premier, I had the honour of being governor, head of the Zaporzi ODA, and I know what it is -- annual debts on salary and pay-offs. We're very close now, believe me. So I strongly suggest you define yourself with a market model at all and conceptually understand: either we're developing this market, or we're doing it at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u141	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u142	Another model that worked before that was called the English Pul. This is a decision that you and I have to make with the experts and the professional community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u143	Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, I'm continuing this meeting for 15 minutes, pending consideration of this matter, or if it's quicker. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Then, with the Minister's motive, let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear national deputies, present! I would like to speak in support of my colleague Frost's draft Law – number 2233-4 – because it is this bill that will enable the proper energy supply of Luhansk TEZ, which provides energy for today, that is about one million Ukrainians in the controlled territory of Ukraine. Second: unlike the three previous, yes, three previous, this bill does not give preference to any market participants and to individual buyers, and it also imposes a regulated income standard in determining the price of electricity, which is a prerequisite for investing in the upgrading of capacity-generating. This is a very important question for today, and that is why I would like here from this rostrum also to ask the President of Ukraine to resolve the question of the economic blockade of Donbas. Because the issue of the country’s carbon independence and energy independence is directly linked to the issue of the blockade, the economic blockade of individual areas of Donetsk, Luhanské region. Therefore, the solution to Ukraine's energy independence is possible only after the economic blockade has been lifted. I thank and ask for the support of Law 22. Fourth draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u145	Thank you. Thank you. The reason for this is given to Minister Alexi Orgel.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, I also want to ask the government to support Bill 2233 in the first reading and in general. Indeed, the bill that is needed is a bill that allows tariffs to be set for heat power plants that are already burning and already suffering damage. A bill that allows us to eliminate the deficit in the electricity market that we witnessed. And you can actually blackmail this fact into an electricity market. What is important is that the bill also foresees additional important elements that are needed in the electricity market. So once again, on behalf of the government, I ask for your support in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u147	Thank you. A word to the head of the committee, Andrey Mikhailovich. And let's go to the vote. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u148	Thank you. Hear? Thank you for the word. Please also note that you would be asked to vote in the committee's drafting with the committee's corresponding additions. And this is the version that was supported by the committee in Bill 2233.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u149	They were from the Opposition Platform. From the procedure? Now. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, from the procedure. Heratchenko is from the procedure after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u150	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Once again, I call for compliance with the rules of the Rules. People’s deputies made it clear that there are suggestions and observations to this law. Therefore, even if the minister does not wish to do so, this law cannot be put to the vote on the basis and in general. Thank you. Please vote only on the first reading. And it's preferable not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u151	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, well, we. I haven't laid the groundwork or the whole thing. If I put it, if I do something wrong, you'll be able to correct me, okay? Thank you. Heroceno.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, I have to remind the session room and the Cabinet of Ministers that we have a parliamentary-presidential republic. And according to the Rules, the minister gets the word when he discusses the bill with the good will of the speaker, who gave the honourable minister a minute of time. And we expected that there would be a response to the question from our faction, how this bill is correlated with the directives of the European Union. We haven't heard a word of it. We heard about the heating season. We have not heard a single word about another question: how does the recent decisions of the UN Security Council and the Supreme Council of Ukraine link the previous call on the aggressor country? What today is "blood trade" with Russia is electricity. We heard political slogans. And then there's a Ham statement from our colleague, Mr. Klimpush-Cincadze. We have the right office. Are we asking the minister of profile to provide us with information on how this law is correlated with EU directives? And what happens to trade with Russia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u153	Thank you. But it's not for motive, Irina Volodymyrna. You may contact the minister without a microphone or a request or a request. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I'm betting on the voting proposal for acceptance as a basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] The year of questions to the government will be Friday. Likewise, I am sure that the Cabinet of Ministers is open to communication with the people's deputies, you will be able to talk to him. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand, but we've been briefed by the authors of the laws. [[B in m in s a l in]] The government is not the initiator of this bill. Let's go to the vote. Victoria Alexandrovno, I'm sorry, you've spoken, let's vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm afraid I can't hear. You're with the minister separately after the meeting. I'm betting on a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Electricity Market (Registration No. 2230). Please prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me, 2233. Once again, 2233. The bill's author is Kamelchuk Yuri, right? Yes. Ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[12:06:12]] For – 295 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. People's Party – 233, Opposition Platform – Life 30, European Solidarity – 0, Fatherhood – 0, Future – 15, Voice – 0, non-fractional – 17. Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee has made a proposal to adopt this bill as a whole. Is there a denial? There's a denial. That's why we don't put it to a vote. The break is announced by 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, take your seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's continue our work. Yuri Camelchuk Please turn on the microphone from a location with a motive of 2233. Dear colleagues, a moment of attention, please! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u155	Good afternoon. According to Bill 2233 - we have been asked to consider it as a reduced procedure for seven days in order to allow the TEC to enter a normal job in the heating season, Ukrenergo still has the opportunity to have a license, not to be threatened with borrowing. And of course, to settle situations where monopolies manipulate our market, creating artificial deficits, and thus increasing prices for electricity and heat. Thank you. I propose to consider Bill 2233 as a summary procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to consider Bill 2233 in short. preparation for second reading. That is, in line with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules, I am now voting on the proposal to cut back on half of the sentences and entitlements and prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 2233). Ready to vote? This is not discussed. That's the question. We either vote or we don't vote. There's no motive here. I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support and vote on the reduction in the preparation time for the second reading. [[12:50:48]] For – 259 Decision taken. Strictly halved. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. This is information that on November 11, 2019, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian National Deputies elected on the electoral side of Ukraine on July 21, 2019, in the one-man election district No. 198, Rudik Sergio Jaroslavovich. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a Ukrainian national deputy takes an oath before the Supreme Council before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Is there a Rudik?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u157	To whom I have not had my oath since August 29th, three registrations by two Central Electoral Commission warehouses, I take my oath again. So it's an oath. I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. National Deputy of Ukraine Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we not turn the Supreme Council into an incomprehensible what? I don't know what a national MP is if you have that kind of ID. I understand who it is, but colleagues. Can I take my mask off? Thank you. We're not afraid of rubber masks. Thank you. Excuse me, continue, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, you know, I've spent enough time recognizing me as a national deputy. But my personal concerns, the experiences of my family and the voters of the 198 constituency, are not such a big problem in the face of the problems faced by many Ukrainians who are fighting for their rights. Vitaly Markov is in Italian prison. Janina Sokolova is struggling with her illness and is an example of many who can fight. Ilmi Umerov, we almost forgot about him, it's a Crimean Tatar with Parkinson's disease, who's been sitting in a Russian mental institution for almost three years, and now it's due to our state here in Kiev. Literally, Igor Mazur, the pseudo "Topola" was arrested for days and is now in the Ukrainian Consulate in Poland, but this is not the final, this story could take a month. And unfortunately, there are a lot of such stories in our time. I simply ask to remember those who never give up and fight for their rights, for the rights of others, for the rights of others, for the rights of others, and for the proof that we Ukrainians are invincible. I believe in the return of Ukrainian lands, I believe in the unification of our lands, the only, the constituency, Ukraine itself. I promise to show all my friends and friends what is normal, good, quality work of the Ukrainian national deputy. Thank you all for supporting me on this journey. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u160	Thank you. No, there will be questions. What procedure, Nestor Ivanovich, do I apologize? I didn't take your rubber products, I didn't take it, I'm sorry. I get that sometimes I have to. Thank you. I can do that, and I can do that. Thank you. Let us now consider the next question of the order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Elimination of Corruption Schemes in the Field of Registration of Property Assessment Reports (registration numbers 2047, 2047-1, 2047-d). Did you find it? It's been a day. Thank you. Let's move on to the question. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[12:56:53]] For – 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Florov Paul Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u161	Good afternoon, dear fellows! At last, I am very pleased that the Supreme Council has come to consider this most important bill. Today we have to correct the error of the Supreme Council of the past call that introduced the so-called intermediaries -- the electronic sites that were used to register sales contracts for every citizen who sells an apartment, he has to pay -- now it's 1 thousand 800 dollars -- to the intermediaries for nothing, just for sending e-mail. It takes place in Ukraine every day about a thousand contracts for the sale of apartments, and out of each contract citizens pay up to 1,000,800 dollars for these corrupt plots. It turns out it's a day off. The day of the scheme costs Ukrainians about one million dollars or 600 million dollars a year. In order to abolish this scheme, it is necessary to adopt this bill, or the bill of parliament, 2047-d. When this happens, Ukrainians will stop paying $1,800 for nothing. A government module has also been created that allows us not to underestimate the cost of property or reduce tax revenues to the state budget. Nine billion dollars was involved in the government budget, and this module remains state-owned and cancelling these electronic sites will not allow the time to be restored for 49,000 dollars at the cost of the apartment and so on. So I propose to support 2047-d, as proposed by the committee, and to stop this shameful practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u162	Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kachuri Alexandre Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u163	Dear national MPs, my many-suffering Ukrainian people! Millions of Ukrainians who are watching us on TV right now have a logical question: What, where are the salaries, where are the pensions that each of you promised? I have the answer to that question, I'll give you the answer. Here they are, look, here's one and two, I have two reports in my hands with a lower value for a real estate valuation. And I went like this as a customer to two rating firms called: Society with limited responsibility, Astreya Consulting Group and TOV "Centre Expert Group". And what, you know, for 20,000 bucks, they gave me an unsuspecting estimate of Odessa's apartment, you know how much? For 42,000 dollars instead of $42,000. And this, I want to tell you, is the billions of dollars, not paid into the budget, which is the military service that's standing on the front desk, which is the retirement of the elementary class teacher of Love of John from the 12th school of the city of Konotap, who now has no money even for treatment. In Ukraine, there's a evaluative mafia that doesn't end with the 2047-d bill, which I'll definitely support in the first reading, but until the second reading as a national MP, I'll have a comment and an amendment. Please submit this information to the transcript. Please, Head of the Supreme Council: let's fight together this monopolistic assessment hydra so that all your parents, when they go out on the street, don't be ashamed to look the neighbors in the eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u164	The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u165	Thank you. Among the many bills passed through our committee, this has proved to be the most difficult. It wasn't because we had doubts as to whether to stop the disgraceful corruption scheme introduced by the previous authority in the Ukrainian Tax Code, which forced every Ukrainian to overpayment a thousand 800 dollars, that there was a dispute about whether to do this about one scheme, or whether to do it in a complex way, about this whole list of corruption mechanisms that unfortunately still exist in our legislation. And we've decided on a largely number of votes to deal with this practice first. In addition, we offered our society an editorial version. We have proposed to reduce the cost of the evaluation not only by the cost of the services of so - called playgrounds, which do not do any service to society, but only by raising money, but also by the cost of the services provided by the evaluators. Bill 2047-d, supported by the Supreme Council Committee for Recommendations to the Supreme Council for adoption as a whole, destroys both the first and the second. We suggest that we directly receive information about the cost of property directly in the module set up by the State Property Fund, thereby eliminating any risks, thereby eliminating corruption that exists today and, unfortunately, is forcing citizens to pay extra money. These are just the first steps called for an end to corruption, but we will not stop on this path. The MPs would like to support the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u166	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up: two for, two for, and two against, the factions. Kostuch Anatoly Viačeslavovich, "Slut of the People" faction
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u167	Please pass the word to Roxolani Podlasi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u168	Roxanne Podlas. Roxanne Andrienne Podlas.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! You know, I'm personally and the Economic Development Committee, but in fact, everyone in this room is in line for the development of competition and the demonization of key sectors of the economy. If that's the case, I'd like to tell you that the courses that report state property ratings to the state base. private property to the state base is a monopoly, an artificial monopoly created by the state and protected by a state, an artificial monopoly that is parasitic to Ukrainians. But this is not the only problem, of course, as the previous reporters said. In the process of evaluating Ukrainian private property, they rob twice. The first time that they require more than a thousand dollars for transferring data to a single holding fund rating base, and the second time that dishonest assessors lower the value of property to pay less taxes. And the budget really doesn't get the money that can be used to pay doctors, teachers, to build kindergartens and roads. But neither the beneficiaries of the courses nor the assessors want to lose their profits. That's why during the review of Bills 2047 and 2047-1, so much dirt was poured out on members of the People's Servants faction. We've found compromise within the faction, and inside the committee, and we're proposing the adoption of Bill 2047-d, from which the Ukrainian will first win. And there's no reason why a national MP working for the Ukrainian people might not support the 2047-D bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u170	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u171	The Fatherland faction didn't vote in favour of this year's budget, which is where they made this amendment at night. Our position was in principle, unlike many of our colleagues who made a deal with the previous authorities and actually supported this corrupt scheme. That's the first one. The other one. If we want to eliminate one corrupt scheme, I think we need to eliminate all corrupt feeds. And that's why what happened on the committee when the corruption feeder ProZorro was ordered to be eliminated -- someone doesn't know how the fundraiser is going on, does it have to be told from this rostrum? Why do you share again: One cannot engage in corruption and the other can engage in corruption? That's why there was such a heated discussion. Only, colleagues from the People's Service don't have to argue with each other, because then the men's pubs crack, then somehow our members of the Fatherland faction are called to questioning at the D.B.I. You're arguing with each other, and our parents are going to testify, so was it corruption or was there corruption on the committee? Now essentially. Why in any country of the world that didn't promise anything after dijitalization, and did it in fact, anyone, including notaries and any other person, can go into the register and see how much the property costs, how much you pay taxes on this property? And you can do that every year, and this is changing depending on inflation and other indicators. Why did we do it in business? I hope that this bill will stop this factor. And our faction will consistently advocate that all these corruption schemes be eliminated. We are voting in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u172	Thank you. Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u173	Fedina Sofia. I give the word to Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u174	Stephen Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u175	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! What I'm saying is that the faction "European Solidarity" will support Bill 2047-d. I mean, I know what it's like to build transparently, I know what it's like to answer, I understand what test or industrial mode is. And I want to thank the Starodoubts, who did a great job in this project. What we are looking at today is a number of violations. I would advise that the best way to bring any law into this room is to comply with the rules of the Supreme Council, especially the 93rd and 103rd articles. Bill 2047 itself is really generalized, "d," but it's not very transparent. After the real estate sale, you first go to the government's assessment module, we've already spoken here today, speaking on the only base of the holding fund. The second one pays 52 bracelets, gets help with the estimated cost. If he gets help and he disagrees, he thinks it's too big, he can change his position, and that's 99 percent about change. And she goes back to the evaluator for the evaluation report, and for 200 dollars, she's going to be registered in a single database. I mean, if you take, for example, a cave apartment, where 100,000 dollars were set by example, after the second estimate, 75,000 dollars is equivalent to the corresponding loss of a large amount of money. So we need to work on the module, we need to work on the risk system, we need to work on transparency. And in the 2047th Bill, there's an opaque scheme that allows you to significantly reduce the value of real estate, trade in electronic help, and we're talking about lowering the value of real estate. This bill should only be adopted in the first reading. To make a professional, independent, nonpolitical group, to propose a test regime, and to carry out absolutely the task of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u176	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u177	Thank you very much. We've been thinking in the Voice faction for a long time (we're really against) who in this room might be against the elimination of the assessment sites. And, long thought, we've come to the point where the best part of this is probably Anton Yatzenko. So please pass it on to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u178	Jaroslav Romanovich, we can't. [[B in m in s a l in]] Jacenko. Anton Yatzenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u179	Dear Mr. Head, my dear colleagues, two weeks ago, literally many MPs were smoldering me with dirt, more than anything else. I think it's a mucoton when a person is accused of something without any facts or evidence. On the other hand, I would like to say that, to my personal conviction, every public service should be held at the expense of the budget and be free to citizens and entrepreneurs. So by this famous law that we're looking at right now, of course, e-commerce is not an option. So as a national deputy for second reading, I will prepare the amendments to do everything free of charge and keep this at the expense of the budget. Just as we do with cars in 173 articles of the Tax Code. And that's why, I think, Mr. Jurczyn, humor here is inappropriate, as they say. It's not the Chapito circus. So let's work on this law for the second reading so that it's good for the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u180	Thank you, Anton Volodymyrovich. Bondar Viktor Vasilovich is a motive. And the motive is Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u181	Thank you, Your Honor. Of course, our group, like most people in the room, I think, will vote in favour of supporting this bill. But it was absolutely right to think that public services should be free. Today’s bill, which is proposed for consideration, essentially cleans up intermediaries, but creates a state-owned enterprise that will use 52 bracelets to provide help. If you do not agree with the assessment given by the state - owned enterprise, you may be able to review this help for 200 dollars, and you are essentially back in corruption, since for 200 dollars, you may be able to adjust the property of the apartment, for example, from $100,000 to the same $20,000. And in fact, it's another food that's being created, just under the guise of the state. If you're going to be a publicist, you have to make changes to the second reading, and you have to clean up this possibility when for 200 extra bracelets, you can look at the value and get a new reference after you disagreed with the first one. And that's the risk of corruption. Therefore, service should be free to humans. And the state can guarantee that the assessment will be real, not made up, and there will be no bribery.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u182	Ten seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u183	And there will be no bribery that will be triggered by the fact that the state-owned enterprise again is an intermediary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u184	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u185	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. For the sake of justice, there are no free public services for our citizens. Because if they don't pay a straight bill for them, they pay for it by paying taxes. But I want to say now about one phenomenon that I think is very humiliating for our Parliament. Consider the presentation by the President of Ukraine on the reasons for the disbandment of the previous Central Electoral Commission. There it was installed, and one of the main motivations was that the Central Election Commission misrepresented elections in 198 districts. Today, the MP who was then elected took an oath. And then I ask the question, why did we end the previous C.V.C.? This is once again to the turbine, to the responsibility. And we have a plus-one person in the hall with radical views, which I welcome all of you to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dubinsky's motive. And let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I was also involved in drafting a bill on the elimination of property valuation schemes. And I think we've done a very big job. I think the result of this work should be not only a solution to the issue of so-called scoreboards, but also to the ProZorro courses, which allow us to draw up up up to 800 million dollars a year from the budget. And such a bill should also be drafted. I just want to remind the hall that this bill was specifically prepared and proposed to the Council, but then cancelled. What do we have instead? A bill that results in the exclusion of 173 articles of the Tax Code from taxation of securities, monetary values and cars, and the possibility of producing income of up to $5 million in a subsidiary on valuation schemes because of a four-time re-application of this system. So please send this bill for second reading and do not accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Elimination of Corruption Schemes in the Field of Registration of Property Assessment Reports (Registration No. 2047-d). Ready to vote? Ready? Vote? Please support and vote. [[13:17:12]] For – 378 378 – a.k.a. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 239, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 32, "European Solidarity" – 23, "The Fatherhood" – 19, "For the Future" – 20, "The Voice" – 19, "the Non-Factional" – 28. Decision taken. Please tell me, is there an offer to be accepted as a whole? Are you ready to accept it as a whole? There are warnings from two factions, I see, at least, a group and a faction. Dear colleagues, no. Let's go to. We can cut it in half. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut down half of the sentences and entitlements, to make proposals and rights and to prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 2047-d). Please support and vote. [[13:18:48]] For – 314 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 233, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 15, "European Solidarity" – 1, "Fatherhood" -12, "For the Future" – 17, "Voice" – 18, "non-factional" – 18. Thank you. Decision taken. I suggest that the committee not put this question in a long drawer and prepare quickly for the second reading. Hopefully, in the second reading, we'll see just as much support, at almost 380 votes, in the hall. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to reduce the pressure on business by market surveillance authorities. It is proposed to be reviewed by a reduced procedure (registration number 2172). Please support and vote. [[13:19:54]] For – 270 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Economic Development Committee of Podlasy Roxolani Andriyevni. Four minutes because she is also the author of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, good day again. Bill 2172 is a bill to protect the Ukrainian producer and the Ukrainian consumer. Today, in the Ukrainian market, between 15 and 70 percent of non-food products, depending on their species, are counterfeit or smuggling. These products are not usually of quality, but are sometimes dangerous. In addition, let's face it: the Ukrainian industrial producer cannot compete with the Chinese imports imported into Ukraine illegally without paying any taxes and assemblies. Market surveillance authorities are very poor in protecting Ukrainians from dangerous products, and inspectors are punished instead of checking and preventing them. We finally need to organize a market surveillance system for non-food products. I want us to change philosophy, the state market inspector has to check, not business, but dangerous products. His task is not to pressure the entrepreneur, but to remove the danger, which is what Bill 2172 proposes. We propose to cancel all fines for formal offenses. The inspector will be obliged to make recommendations for the removal of the infringement and will be fined only for the repetitive violation. We set clear requirements that the inspector may or may not do. We are obliged by the inspector to provide advice and advice on how to remedy violations rather than immediately impose fines. We protect small businesses and establish by law that the responsibility for dangerous products is imported or manufactured, not small distributors. We're banning the removal of all documents from the company by inspectors, and now the inspector can only get to know the documents that are necessary for the installation of the supply chain. We cancel the notion of "infinite combined checks" when the inspector could keep the entrepreneur in suspended condition for months. We limit the maximum verification periods. The manufacturer’s verification will now be possible only after an expert examination and a documentary confirmation that a product poses a danger. At the same time, we are really increasing the responsibility for not being tested, because today the business that trades in counterfeits or smuggling is easier to pay 340 fines every day than to take responsibility for its wrong actions. This is lawlessness that poses a danger to Ukrainian citizens. Finally, we remove duplication of control of different organs by the same type of product. The Economic Development Committee, in turn, considered the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis, because we must protect an honest Ukrainian producer by such non-discriminatory methods. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u190	Thank you. Please sign up for factions: two for, two for, two for, one for, one for. Ustenova Alexander Yuriovna, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u191	Please pass on the word Klimenko Juli.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u192	Again, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u193	Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u194	Julia Leonidna Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u195	The Voice faction will certainly support this bill because, with all due respect to the authors of this bill, this bill was drafted by the Ministry of Economics in 2015-2016. Sadly, he lay there for a long time and walked on various organs. And we're glad he's finally in the hall. We will certainly support him for two reasons. The first is the protection of consumer rights, our citizens are really suffering from a contract. And the second is the protection of a small business, which unfortunately is responsible for the misbehaviors at the moment and for the ill-behavior importers. We also call on our colleagues from a large majority, as well as the government to continue working in this direction, and yet to review the Consumer Rights Act and move it to this Hall as quickly as possible, so that we can protect our consumers from all sides, not only in part with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u196	Thank you, Julia Leonidina. Alexander Sergiyovich Kornienko, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u197	Please pass the word to Mezentsa Maria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u198	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u199	Mesentz.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u200	Maria Mezentsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u201	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters, present and media! As co-author of this bill, I would like to thank the colleagues who have joined this important bill, including the Ministry of Economics and all the caregivers. In fact, the number 2172 is not simple, it is our gateway to Ukraine's future economic development and to the opening of the market of more than 500 million consumers in the subcontinent of Europe. In order to explain the business itself and the electorate to the very simple, very simple words of this bill, I want to highlight two important points. First: we, of course, increase safety right in the non-food market through European standards. And secondly, given the adoption of this bill, we are opening the way to the adoption of the Agreement on the Assessment of the Conformity and Acceptability of Industrial Production. That's why we can sign after some negotiations that will take place in five days, about the ASAA agreement, which will allow us to open up more possibilities. For the time being, we do not have these legal reasons, but they will. So what do we do for real for business? First. For the time being, a producer or distributor of non-food products can be fined for minor formal violations — for example, mislabelling. The bill proposes that these be changed and scanned. The manufacturer is now given some time to correct these errors, not a fine. Now that the subject has been exposed to dangerous products, the fine is imposed on each unit. Imagine, for example, if the production of such units is thousands. For example, a number of washing machines that do not meet the requirements were found at the supermarket.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u202	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u203	So the size of these fines we're proposing to make fixed. Guys, let's do this together and open up an industrial car for Ukraine. Thank you very much. We're going to support 2172.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u204	Thank you, Maria Sergey. Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u205	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to say that the bill is the first initiative to reduce the pressure on business: (a) this market surveillance is a good perspective; (b) it makes the state control system transparent. And the third is that we're also making sense, simplicity and uniformity. The other one. This bill is quite systematic, because it has been done for even three years, and I think it will be adopted today in the first reading, contributing to Ukraine's implementation of EU integration commitments. And here I would ask Mrs. Ivanna Klimpush what needs to be evaluated on the committee. In particular, it is suggested to remove individual duplicates, control issues, unify the types of checks, and better regulate the process of checks. The next important block, where I want to draw attention to the fact that the bill introduces the notion of a state college body as one of the forms of State oversight. Such an initiative is questionable, when there is no understanding what an organ, function, and how it should work. The Explanatory Note mentions NHRIs, but the commission’s extension of additional public oversight functions requires changes to a number of laws. And that brings about systemic changes for today. And third, there is a separate regulation for nuclear materials and radioactive waste installations, precious metals, stones. And the last. The bill proposes a substantial increase in fines, but there is no justification for the size of such fines. Our political force "European Solidarity" will support this bill only in the first reading. Mr. Head, please don't shorten the deadline, the more we don't work right now for two weeks, there's going to be a visit to the districts and the committees, and we're going to work on it systematically. This is a very important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u206	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Alona Ivanovna's starch. I can't see. Andrew Nikolayenko closed the door. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u207	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to touch the negative side of this bill. Will he reach his goal? First, the title of the bill does not correspond to its contents, because the standards proposed by the authors are aimed not at reducing the pressure on business by market control authorities, but rather at increasing the pressure through collegiate bodies. What I'm saying is that we're empowering the college authorities to do checks now. Next. Under the Law on Market Surveillance, the area of security of Ukrainians is extremely important, namely nuclear installations, nuclear facilities and the treatment of radioactive waste. Next up, colleagues. I think it's clear to everyone that this is not a reduction of the pressure when we add to article 2 of the Ukrainian National Police Act, we add to the main tasks of the National Police to ensuring that the authorities of the state control authorities and the central executive authority actually control compliance with legislation. Control of the control organs, and also the attraction to responsibility. So, colleagues, I propose that we systematically approach such bills. For the colleagues say: Let us vote in the first reading, then let us work together. And then it's clear that we don't have a system-wide bill that really will increase business opportunities. On our side, we see that there's going to be a reinforcement of the control organs. And I've told you about the aspects that our analysts are writing about. That's why "Paternity" will abstain from this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? Please prepare for the vote. People's deputies please take their seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to reduce the pressure on business by market surveillance authorities (registration number 2172). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:33:07]] For – 310 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 226, "Response Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 23, "Fatherhood" – 2, "For the Future" – 16, "Voice" – 18, "non-fractional" – 25. Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next issue in the agenda is the draft Act amending the Final and Transitional Regulations of the Code of Bankruptcy (Registrations 2131 and 2131-1). I'll give the floor to the committee. But the position of the committee was to reject. If you don’t mind, we can consider it as a reduced procedure. I'm betting on a motion for a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:34:11]] To – 256 Decision taken. The report is given by Podlasi Roxolani Andriyovni, deputy head of the Economic Development Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u209	Hello, again! Very short. Bill 2131 and the alternative bill 2131-1 were intended to postpone the entry into force of the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy. In September, the drafters of the bill and the Economic Development Committee received reports that public authorities, such as the State Court of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, were unable to prepare for bankruptcy under the new procedure. However, by the time the Code came into force, all the difficulties had been removed. The new Bankruptcy Code entered into force on October 21, 2019. Bankruptcies are already under new progressive rules. The Economic Development Committee is considering bills to improve the individual norms of the Code. The committee then approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that both bills be rejected due to the loss of relevance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u210	Thank you. I understand that the authors don't insist either. So if there is such a desire, I suggest that we not discuss the matter, but that we immediately vote in favour of rejecting it. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the rejection of the draft Act amending the Final and Transitional Regulations of the Code of Bankruptcy (2131). Please. I can't hear you. Please support and vote. Wait. Colleagues, take your seats, please. Please support and vote. This is the consolidated position of the committee, the authors, and hopefully the Supreme Council. Please be supportive. [[13:36:35]] For – 331 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm putting the second bill to the vote as an alternative. I am voting on the proposal to reject the draft amendment to the Final and Transitional Regulations of the Code of Bankruptcy (Registration No. 2131-1). Please support and vote. [[13:37:11]] For – 307 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been asked to amend some of the Ukrainian legislation on the issue of amber production (registration No. 2240). Dear colleagues, we need to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of this plenary session of the above-mentioned bill. Please prepare for the vote. It takes 226 votes in favour of the Ukrainian national deputies. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:38:14]] For – 342 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to apply the ad hoc procedure to the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session. Similarly, 226 votes are required. Please support and vote. [[13:38:42]] For – 295 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:39:05]] For – 270 Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection, Orgel Aleksija Anatoliyovich. On the rostrum, please come out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u211	Good afternoon, national deputies! The issue of illegal amber mining in Ukraine has grown to an extraordinary and critical extent. We've all seen and we all know how much damage illegal amber mining is causing. These lunar landscapes that we've all seen, places that can no longer be used by destination, forest damage, lack of income from rent payments, and the immediate situation that is created in places, does not add any optimism, and needs an immediate solution to the situation. In particular, these critical phenomena have become widespread in the last five years. Therefore, the issue of regulating amber production should become a priority. And the question of getting him out of the shadows and bringing him into a transparent legislative field is the task that the relevant bill is going to solve for you today. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has drafted a bill to regulate the production of amber in Ukraine, which includes, inter alia, the following situations, to implement the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Urgent Measures for Economic Growth, Regional Promotion and Prevention of Corruption. A single special permit for exploration is introduced for five years and no more than 10 hectares [10 ha]. The land issue of access to amber is also addressed through the establishment of land serviette rules. A strict responsibility is imposed for failure to comply with the requirements of recycling, which is vital that we do not remain in the same form after the harvest of amber. A number of duplicating and archaic harmonys are cleaned up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u212	Let me finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u213	which also made it difficult to obtain permits. Criminal responsibility for illegal mining and administrative responsibility for violations established by law is also imposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u214	Thank you, Minister. Alexei Anatolyevich, thank you. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Environment by Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u215	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Environmental Policy has considered a bill on amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of amber production (registration No. 2240), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, supports the need for an immediate legislative settlement of issues related to amber mining, and thanks the government for the quality and comprehensive approach to addressing amber production. In particular, this bill, unlike the previous bills that we have tried to resolve this issue, has amended a number of codes, including the Earth Code, the Nadra Code, the Ukrainian Mining Act and so on, has introduced additional criminal and administrative responsibility and so on. The committee created a working group with the participation of national deputies from different factions, from various committees, which worked very well and worked on several comments to the bill, particularly the working group did not support the introduction of a ban on exports of amber cheese per year, particularly the working group, and was proposed to reduce the rent to 15 per cent and to amend the Budget Code on the distribution of 50 by 50 rents to local budgets. The committee supported the proposal of Ukrainian national deputies Bondarenko and Kowalczuk on the need for an exception to the introduction of a bill of proposals and rights, which is not considered in the first reading. With regard to amendments to article 51 of the Code of Nards on the introduction of typical projects and technological schemes for the development of amber turds and article 206 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on increasing liability for resistance to legitimate economic activity, as well as.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u216	Thank you. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u217	And the changes to the 25 and 96 Customs tariffs in Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council proposes to return the draft to work, but the committee believes that the proposal proposed by the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate for the drafting of the bill, taking into account the comments made and proposals made, is possible during its preparation for the second reading. In view of the need for an urgent legislative settlement of issues related to amber mining, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of amber production issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u218	Thank you. But, Oleg Volodymyrovich, I ask you to follow the rules. Please register: two in, two in the opposite, from factions. Mustafa Jemiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u219	Please give Arthur Gerasimov the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u220	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u221	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Is there a problem in Ukraine with amber mining? Of course, there is, it is a very big and serious problem. Should we take steps to resolve this problem? Of course you do. But is this law perfect? No, unfortunately, there is not. So the faction of the political party "European Solidarity" will support this bill in the first reading. But we're paying attention to a lot of inaccuracies, underwork in this law, which should really be very careful, along with the public, along with the experts who are working on the second reading. And that's why we call on the leadership of the Supreme Council not to shorten the deadline for preparing for the second reading of this bill and to allow all those working on this bill to work carefully, to work carefully, to address all the inaccuracies carefully, so that, on the second reading, we really, not on paper, but in real life, are able to solve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u222	Venislav Feder Volodymyrovich, "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, the need for the adoption of this law has already matured, and it has to be approved 10 years ago when only this amber fever began in the Zitomirsk, Ravensk, Volinsk regions. Anyone who's seen the results of these, say, black amber diggers, understands what unwarranted, irreparable damage barbaric and unregulatory mining of these useful fossils of national importance is doing. So, of course, it is necessary to urgently adopt a law that will place amber mining activities within a civilized framework, which will provide for mechanisms to compensate for damage caused to the environment by barbaric mining, or, more faithfully, civilized mining will put just a reasonable recycling of those lands on which amber is mined. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill because it is urgently necessary and it has both social and economic and political significance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u224	Alona Ivanovna's starch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u225	Please give the word to Angelica Labunski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u226	Angelica Victorovna Labunska
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u227	Angelica Labunska, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I think it's no secret to anyone that this bill is owed to the Supreme Council to the entire Ukrainian society. As my colleague put it right, this bill had to be adopted 10 or 15 years ago. You know that thousands of hectares of land today, after illegal drilling, have simply become an ecological disaster. I agree, we had a productive working group, a fruitful committee. The Fatherland faction will support this bill in the first reading, but there are many things that need to be corrected. We don't know why there's a fork in a fine for administrative wrongdoing. Frankly, there are inaccuracies in the 66th regarding the transfer of land to ownership. I want to tell you that we have to work very carefully to make changes to the Ukrainian Law on Product Distribution Agreements. We don't know why, when we talk about auctions today, this is a violation by Ukraine in general of the Orgus Convention, which is currently under consideration, of what has been negotiated under the Yushua and Ole Agreement on the distribution of carbon. I don't know why the changes to this law are made, but I don't think it's about the amber settlement. But I think we're going to do it productively and we're going to do it with amendments to the second reading and we're going to prepare this bill. And it needs to be accepted, and I ask everyone to support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u228	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? Aresonkov, I see. No, "The Servant of the People" was already there. After that, I'll give you my word. Okay. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u229	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Of course, the issue of amber production in Ukraine is very relevant, and resolving this issue today is the first step towards solving this problem. And our faction certainly supports it in the first reading. However, there are rather serious environmental risks that are not taken into account. I think the people who live in the police area know that. My colleagues from two academic institutions -- this is the Institute of Agrarian Economics, the Institute of Economics -- have examined these draft laws, and we have a number of very important and serious observations. First, and most importantly, under article 15 of the Codex Code on Nadra, mining of beneficial fossils is proposed without an environmental impact assessment procedure. Think about it, even when we extract sand, it's all going on. It is now suggested not to set this standard. Second, a very important point: proposals for amendments to article 66 of the Ukrainian Land Code are too vaguely presented in the section on the transfer of land of all forms of property. Another very important moment. They emerged from the point of view of the land of the Forest Fund, which, according to practice, had just now become the main source of amber production in Ukraine. The proposed edition of article 168 of the Ukraine’s Land Code, which applies to protective soils, is quite unacceptable. And I want to make this point for everyone to hear that, given the significant ecologically destructive impact on soils resulting from amber mining, a legislative norm should be proposed which would oblige amber miners to recycle land. And that's exactly what the second reading needs to do. And, of course, it's precisely the ability of the technology base of amber miners to do the work. So our faction will support it, this bill, but we have to take into account the second reading of those environmental risks and the potential risks that may arise after the adoption of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u230	Thank you. For reasons like Aresonkov, Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u231	Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Zitomirstina. Does this bill solve the complex of enormous problems associated with amber production? Clearly, no, many questions are raised correctly. But I just want to pay attention for one moment. In fact, in the process of mining amber is involved in huge numbers of residents living in our rurals, villages. And this bill could help them, but it's mainly about settling large companies, large legal entities. Because private people will have to pay for money they don't have. So I would like to take into account the points involved in preparing for second reading, namely, the support of residents, caregivers, diggers, and those who are living.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u232	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u233	Therefore, I ask very carefully when preparing for the second reading to take into account the very characteristics of the diggers and the guardians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u234	Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u235	Dr. Alexanderovich, please give our group the floor to Mrs. Irina Konstanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u236	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u237	The Group "For the Future" thinks that this bill is very important, relevant and, in fact, we are like deputies representing Volin and Majority Districts of Volin, we are most interested in the issue of illegal amber production being settled. But at the same time, I want to point out that in this bill, which the Group "For the Future" will support in the first reading, there are no rules that would harmonize the production process with local self-government. And here we see some risks. In particular, we would like to suggest that communities be heard. For these issues to be settled and coordinated with decentralization issues. And for the second reading, the Group "For the Future" is going to have to make some adjustments. It's like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u238	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u239	So we support in the first reading and will make our suggestions to the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u240	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna And after that, from the committee, there's a question on the books. And let's go to the vote. Samantha Anatolyevna. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u241	Good afternoon! Thank you. And first of all, you're absolutely right that this is our obligation. Can I have two seconds? Our obligation is still to consider this bill. And for those who don't know, Ukraine shows every year between 120 and 300 tons of amber production, but at the official level we only see 5 percent of those that come legally. But we have a series of comments and no suggestions. So we're actually going to abstain in the vote in the first reading. And we think he's too raw. In particular, I would like to remind those who care about the environment and the environment that there is a full assessment of the impact on the environment, first that we have to do under the Association Agreement, and secondly that we have to do in order to maximize the recycling of land and care, and the best search for ways to extract amber that we will talk about in the next bill. I ask very much not to shorten the bill in view of what this clearly requires: (a) public hearings, and for the Plains, Zitomirsk, Volinsk district, they are too critical for fighting, fighting, beatings, and beatings.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u242	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u243	Once again, so we don't have to beat up the heads of the police, the Nazis and so on, because that's what we see regularly in our areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u244	Thank you. I give the floor to Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich on some of the suggestions he forgot to make during his speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, the committee has considered the comments and suggestions and the rulings of the two national deputies, this is Mr. Bondarenko and Mr. Kowalczuk. And according to the first part of article 116 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need for an exception to the text of the bill of proposals, the rights of correction, clarification, the removal of errors, namely: with regard to the addition of article 51 of the Ukrainian Code of Nardral to a new part three in the following edition: "The use of nadrama on the basis of a special permit for geological study of amber nadrs, including research and industrial production, takes place on the basis of typical projects or technological schemes in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." Second remark. This is the amendment to the 206th article of the Criminal Code on increased responsibility and observation and proposal for removal from the bill of names of proposed changes to the UCTZED in part of the qualification of amber, namely, regarding the change in the title of the chapter and the addition of them to the words "breaths and produce thereof". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u246	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u247	Please consider these suggestions and revisions in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m0.u248	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Committee's proposals for second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of amber production (registration No. 2240). Please prepare for the vote. I'm continuing our session for 15 minutes until we vote. Ready to vote, huh? Please support and vote. [[13:59:37]] For – 342 Decision taken. 2:00. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. The evening will begin at 4:00. Please don't be late.
