ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, let's register. [[16:12:54]] There are 369 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. A few announcements will now be read by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, while you are in your seats, I am delighted to announce that we are multiplying interfractional MPs. In this regard, I announce the creation of an interfractional "For the FOPs". Head. Excuse me, the co-chairs of this union have elected the national deputies of the Ukraine of the Podlas Roxolaan Andriyevna and Grishko Roman Pavlovich. Yes, everything: The FOPs are calm. Next. Creation of an interfractional MP compound called Drink Water. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Yuri Anatoliyevich Sapovalova, was elected head of this association. An interfractional MP unit, Platform for Coal Region Transformation, has been created. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Grib Victoria Alexandrovna, was elected head of this association. And until the latest announcement on the creation of the interfractional parliamentary association "Anthirider Coalition". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexandre Anatoliyovich Kachuru, was elected head of this association. I welcome our colleagues with their associations on such important issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for consideration. Dear colleagues, according to article 85, paragraph 11, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to consider and decide on the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action. On September 29, according to the requirements of current legislation, the Government introduced the Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 227 of the Rules, the following order is proposed for consideration of the Programme of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers: a report by the Prime Minister, up to 15 minutes; answers to questions, up to 10 minutes; statements from the deputy factions and groups, up to 18 minutes; statements by the national deputies from each committee, up to 45 minutes; statements from the national deputies, up to 6 minutes; and the closing word of the Prime Minister, up to 3 minutes; decisions taken. The real time to consider this question is 1 hour 40 minutes. If there's no objection, please. I suggest we move on to this issue. The prime minister of Ukraine, Alexei Valeriyovich, is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u4	Thank you, colleagues. This is a completely working moment, so I'm going to try to be as concise and specific as possible. First of all, I want to thank you for a month's work. I think we've done a lot of cool, cool things together. And I am very pleased to note that we have found, in my opinion, between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council, the necessary format of work that allows us to be effective. During this period of time, you passed bills -- we put them into practice. You've passed bills on the childization of the economy and the fight against smuggling, authorized economic operators -- it's all working, we're already implementing it. We're creating a new customs office and a new tax office. Just the other day at a government meeting, we set up a new customs division. For two, about three weeks we will fill them, these territorial units, the new people, and they will be quality, without corruption, professionally already providing services to our business. That's what we have in common. You've decided to remove the restrictions on privatization and create concession mechanisms, and you've passed a very important bill. Already this week, we have met in Odessa with thirty investors from over ten foreign countries who are willing to invest in Ukrainian ports. And that's just the beginning. This is also our common result, You have simplified, and we thank you very much for this by adopting Law 1066: the order of acceptance and release of civil servants. Thanks to you, we've reloaded the first 13 executive organs -- the ones with the most corruption issues -- the GASK, the State Commission, the State Agency, the State Department. All these bodies will have other leaders. We have now announced the contests, and therefore I call upon you, distinguished nationals, to also engage. Please tell people, give us decent professional people who will lead the work in these organs. At the first meeting of our government, we eliminated UBEP in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Yes, I know that the functions at the level of the law remain, but yesterday you approved the Law on State Fiscal Service in the first reading, and I very much hope that it will work soon. All of these are examples of our work together, for which I want to thank you. Every day I see this work getting more and more efficient. We work out personal contacts. But there is one circumstance that I think should go gradually into the past. It's this so-called "force mode," yes, you call it "turbage." It's not normal. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not normal. We should have passed laws very quickly and at the level of government, and at the level of parliament, and we thank you for that. But for the future we have to build work systematically to show an example of how the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian Parliament can be predictable, including for society and business. The foundation of this. And the basis of this work is that we propose to make the Government's Activity Program. This is the document I want to present to you today, you've seen it, you've read it, we've discussed it with many of you. It is the foundation for our future work and the basis for you to appreciate the government’s work in a year. These are our common goals, 78 of them. These 78 goals are broken down into three chapters. The first chapter on human capital development, we start with man. There are five ingredients: education, health care, social policy, protection of veterans, and culture, and the development of sports. With your permission, I'm going to take a very short walk on those key ideas that we put into work in these directions. First. Education. Of course, the extension of the New Ukrainian School. In our view, this is a good example when we can take that one. That job that ran towards us and, by perfecting it, went on. This is the right way, in our opinion. It is also important to liberalize the activities of private institutions, private schools, and private kindergartens. We need to create conditions under which businesses, including those services, can provide such services. Universities, science must also be reformed. We have to stop spending state funds on walls and premises and we have to implement this targeted approach, where when we get a scholarship, when we get other incentive payments, grants, we're going to give talented people who want to get educated and do science, we're going to be able to develop. We need to create the right incentives for our money, not for inefficiency. Protection of health. The "money goes to the patient" principle should be clearly preserved. This is a very good principle. This is the same approach: no financing of steel, walls, rooms, beds, yes, financing of services provided to patients. It's an entrenched principle. The "Available Drugs" program should continue. We looked at it, it worked really well, we had to develop it, we had to expand it, but it's normal. Autonomy of hospitals and individual medical licenses. Doctors need to be given more freedom and personal responsibility for what they do for their activities so that they can develop and shape their personal history. A good tool for this, which we offer, is a tool for individual licensing of doctors. This tool can in the future govern the self - control of doctors. The self-governance of doctors, like any other professional self-governance, needs to develop in Ukraine. Next, social policy. Our main challenge for the next five years is to overcome poverty. It's not just some high-tech offer. We know that we are counting now, we have in Ukraine, unfortunately, more than ten million of our fellow citizens live outside the poverty line. What does that mean? That means they get less than the cost of living. Given that the subsistence minimum that we have on paper is very controversial, we'll say, yes, we have no reason to question it officially until it's fixed, but we're looking exactly at how to review it. In our view, today the subsistence minimum, which is declared and guaranteed by the State, is unfortunately not enough for a person to feel worthy and live a decent life. Him. That's what we need to work on. Of course, it takes resources. According to our calculations, about 140-150 billion dollars would have to be spent in order to take and provide all our citizens with a decent level of income right now. This money cannot be found immediately in the budget, but we need to work hard so that for the next five years economic growth will give us the resources needed to do so. We're thinking that 1 percent of economic growth is about 15 billion dollars coming into the government budget. It's a calculation, of course, roughly, but it's about the orientation that we're getting out of when we're calculating our social programs. It's also very important that we use and provide these social services, social protection, because we have a lot of cool information in our registers. We have this year, we're looking for the opportunity to conduct this year's so-called electronic population census, which is to pool all the databases to see how much we actually have population, and what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what kind of people they get. We are already working on this important task with our Ministry of Social Policy. We're counting on the fact that we'll be able to handle the money more precisely, which means that more money will be given to the one who really needs it. We conclude that Ukrainian families, Ukrainian households whose income is not very high, should not spend more than 15 percent of their total income on utilities. Until we provide a different level of income for these people, the state must protect and help such families, support the grant program, which will certainly be extended. Culture and sports. It is difficult to overestimate these important areas. First of all, you have to remove corruption, these are all tools, historical and architectural justifications, and so on, and so on, and so on, all that stuff that's going on today, including the collection of bribes. Similarly, we need to look at the development of mass sports. A person will be healthy if he is constantly engaged in physical activity and we as a government think about how it is right to stimulate and create conditions for a Ukrainian to be able to do so. Veterans. It's not about social policy, it's not about social protection, it's about respect and dignity for those people who at the right time stood up for our Fatherland. So veteran politics is very important, and it will be implemented, not by the approach that needs to be protected, but by the approach that needs to be given, well, by showing respect and respect. We target, we aim to ensure that Ukrainian society respects man and gives him the respect he needs, the person who stood up for our country at the right time. All of this must be provided economically. So in order for the state to have the resources to provide for all of this, we need economic growth. We're making it our goal for the next five years to achieve 40 percent economic growth. It's realistic. This requires an increase of 5 percent in the next year and 7 percent in the next year. Such periods have already existed in our country’s history, in other lands too. It's a completely real story. This requires a higher level of economic freedom in the country, because a free person is more productive. The more restrictions, the more a person is trapped and unable to implement himself. So our ideological platform with which we approach economic development is, of course, economic freedom. In this block we start with finance. The state has to be predictable because business can develop in an environment that is projected to be able to plan, then resources are cheaper. To do that, we're going to start next year, we're going to have three years of budget planning. This means that we, as a state, are going to adopt a budget not for one year, but for three. This will give us a chance to be more predictable than ever. Similarly, we suggest less borrowing. Ukraine should borrow less, and this requires reducing the government budget deficit. For the next year it's still big, and every next year we're going to ask you to cut it down. Similarly, we intend to waste the service of government debt. For this general logic, there's a whole separate document called "The Debt Management Strategy," you can read it, you can see it. He explains in very detail what we propose to do to make the debt smaller. In two words, I can say that we will gradually replace more cheap and longer money. More expensive and shorter money is cheaper and longer. And by gradually replacing, we're reducing the burden on our budget, and by economic growth, we're reducing our share of GDP and in our budget. Similarly, we want to look closely at the tax system. Today it is not and does not seem very fair to us, and in our view it does not create the right incentives. Let's start with tax administration. A lot of things. We're already discussing this, the general principle is very simple: the state has to ensure a level playing field. For example, so that large businesses do not hide or try to use small businesses, relying on benefits. At the same time. At the same time, administration should become as cheap as possible so that the amount of hours spent by a Ukrainian businessman to pay taxes and to administer taxes is reduced. The answer to this question is very simple: digitization, that is, digitization of all processes as far as possible. The tax system consists of many different taxes. In our opinion, and what we're putting in our tax policy, the number of taxes to create -- the so-called extranalities -- that is, to create harmful consequences, for example, for emissions, for pollution, should increase. Such taxes can and should be increased. A person who ridicules may be more taxed by the polluter and the one who is causing damage to his activity. At the same time, those who invest, make profits, work, and gradually pay less. We need to use the tax system to change incentives. A fundamental reform of the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u5	Let me finish, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u6	30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u7	Alexei Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u8	Let's do it together, yeah, that's what they say?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u9	You're talking about the routes. See, you've got 15 minutes. No one has spoken in this room for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u10	Colleagues, colleagues, I have been and am a proponent of quick decision-making. Thank you so much for putting up with me at this pace. I'm just saying that we're being asked further away. Ending. I'm ready and my government, our government, is ready to answer all the questions you're going to have. This program is a working document that will measure our joint effectiveness. After you've done it, God forbid, we'll sit together for every purpose and we'll form politics together with the committees to make it clear to both you and us, and the main thing is society. Thank you very much. I am convinced that our collective activity will bring happiness to Ukraine. We will create a strong state for a free society that will make the Ukrainian happy. Thank you very much, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u11	Thank you. Colleagues, please sign up for a question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u12	Good afternoon! Mr. Prime Minister, we thank you for presenting your vision of the Government's Action Programme. At the same time, I find it painful to read that the government's priorities and tasks do not contain any questions about the reflection of Russia's ongoing aggression and the restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity. As I understand it, the Cabinet of Ministers Act and the Constitution say that the Kabin guarantees state sovereignty and the exercise of foreign policy. In this connection, I have a question: why is the Government's Action Programme so composed that we don't have to fight aggression or restore territorial integrity, or do we not have to ensure the preservation of international support for Ukraine and the continuation of sanctions and sanctions regime in relation to the Russian Federation? Please explain whether the government thinks these tasks have already been accomplished.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u13	Let me finish, please. Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u14	The question is whether the government believes these tasks are already done, implemented, or how it will ensure that these national security and development priorities are carried out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u15	I can answer that, can't I? Thank you very much. I'm reading section XV, Department of Defense. Target one: the state is ready to fight off military aggression in all realistic scenarios." Of course, of course, these tasks have not been accomplished and have not yet been accomplished. Of course, we need to keep building up the capabilities of the Armed Forces, and this is what the program says. Of course, we need to continue our cooperation with NATO, and we stand on it. The only question is that our focus is economic. We believe that in order for the Ukrainian Armed Forces to have resources, we need to achieve economic growth. Thus, economic growth remains our priority. That's what we're focusing on. At the same time, however, I want to remind you that the government is just one of the organs in the system of executive and general government. There is the President, the Commander-in-Chief, the Council of National Security and Defence, and with them in coordination. So as a government, we can't completely, completely monopolize ourselves, take on, well, the declaration of these important tasks. But if you look closely, the program contains all the necessary goals and goals, so that we, as a nation, have the opportunity to reflect any kind of aggression.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u16	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u17	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I see only a slogan for your purposes. I'm going to give you a specific example. You have a goal of 6.6 that says we're forcing the Bureau of Financial Investigations, an analytical centre for financial investigations of cell phones. I don't know what that is, really. Instead, Bill 1208-2, which we adopted in the first reading, creates a law enforcement authority with full powers of pretrial investigation with the possibility of carrying out operational investigations and police action. Questions. Do you understand the difference between an analytical center and a law enforcement agency? And what exactly is the cent, or the bureau, you're going to create? And the second part of the question. You write in Target 6.2: we will increase the transparency and efficiency of tax audits and implement an effective complaints mechanism. Does this not mean that the strategy comes again through the adoption of additional pressure on business, which comes directly out of the laws already adopted?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u18	Nina Petrovna, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u19	I'm talking about adopted laws 1053-1, 1210, which are suitable, and increasing the number of reasons for checking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u20	Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u21	Yes, please. I would now like to divide the issues of the program and the questions of individual bills for many reasons. First of all, every bill is a separate big debate. And if we go deep into the instruments, we need to remember the text now, including the text. I don't remember the text of all the bills. I'm convinced that we can discuss with you on separate, any individual instruments in the context of the consideration of individual bills. Our general ideology is that business needs to be stimulated to pay taxes. When you're forced to do something for business, you've already lost. If the state has to apply business, pay taxes, it has already lost. This means that you have not communicated, you have not created convenient tax payers, or you have created an unfair system, and someone feels that he should not pay taxes. For us, it's an absolute axiom that the law enforcement agency that has to work with business has to act not because of power, but because of analytics and dialogue and stimulation. It's a general principle that we're exactly like the government we're going to stand for. At the same time, we are aware that the State must also have strong instruments of influence. But this is a last resort that needs to be implemented. We're ready to discuss the design of individual tools within each individual bill. Personally, I'm ready, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u22	Thank you. Jaroslav Ivanovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u23	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u24	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u25	Mr. Prime Minister, in your speech, you mentioned our international fund, which is extremely important. Instead, in the Government Action Programme, we see three goals, none of them mention or indicate how diplomatic methods we will fight the aggressor and defeat him, how we will defeat Russia by diplomatic means. Will this be clarified in the Government’s Action Programme? You also mentioned the positive effect of the new law that was passed with regard to public service. Instead, over the past few weeks, we have seen what is happening in the Ministry of Health, in fact, the blocked work of several Directorates, and the old methods are trying to push out government officials who came into the public service after the revolutionary period. How can we solve this problem? And also say, please, about the educational question. Whether the second reading of the budget will change the figures for salaries and salaries.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u26	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u27	And the last question about education. Will pay calculations be changed to the second reading in the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u28	Answer. In one document, it is impossible, however it may be, to answer completely all questions. The issue of resistance, if we're serious, colleagues, the issue of resisting an aggressor is the question of scenario evaluation. And so if we're seriously talking about a document that says how to win someone or someone else, it should be a document with a minimum, I don't know, a few dozen different scenarios, variants and so on. The general approach is very simple. The Ukrainian diplomat has to understand exactly that Ukraine has become a victim of aggression, that Crimea is Ukraine, that Donbas is Ukraine. All these very clear political boards, they're already there and they're declared to us. Similarly, a Ukrainian diplomat must be well - equipped so that he does not think about where to make a penny. If he is properly provided, he may think about the country’s interests. It's about diplomatic things. The whole thing's declared. We can discuss in detail how each of these can be achieved. On the subject of education, on the subject of education. We offered you friends a budget before the first reading. In this budget, we were coming out of that macroeconomic forecast that we had at the time -- spring. We don't think spring macroprognosis is very relevant. So in just a few weeks, we're going to have a new macro-predict with a new growth forecast. There we'll see how much revenue we'll have with you as a state next year. As a result, we will determine the cost and security figures, including the educational community. That's the answer. A more open answer, unfortunately, does not allow me time, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u29	Thank you. Let me make a deal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u30	Yeah, thanks, sorry, I forgot. The situation in MOZ. I know a lot about dozens of colleagues who work in MOZ personally. There are very mixed estimates of what is happening. I have absolute confidence in the minister, I am absolutely convinced that he is a professional, intelligent person, and he will be building a team that will be able to achieve these goals in the near future. I am convinced that professional normal people will find common ground. And what's happening right now is just communication errors. I'm definitely getting out of this. I personally make every effort I can to make this story as constructive as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u31	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. No, zero. You, if you don't see zero, there are three zeros now written. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Thank you. Irina Miroslavovna, MP for the Future. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u32	Dear Prime Minister of Ukraine, Your Honor! Self - criticism and recognition of mistakes are always beneficial. I'm talking about the turbine. Turbourage is an abnormal norm. Systemic norm is good. We agree with this approach by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. But it is important that the position of the Prime Minister of Ukraine here coincide with that of the coalition present in this Parliament. So it's important for us to hear it as one position, because we know that the government programme should be based on a coalition programme that is formed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And coalitions. We haven't seen coalition programs. The coalition is formed, and we don't have coalition programs. But at the same time, my friends, we welcome the government's willingness to achieve a 40 percent increase in GDP in the next five years as a result of the stated ambition programme. Positive changes in the demographic situation, the creation of 1 million jobs, the well-being of all major roads (ambitious plan up to 24,000 km), the construction of 5 seaports and 15 airports. At the same time, we, the "For the Future" MP, met with the Prime Minister of Ukraine the day before, yet there is a warning that the document that we are discussing is no longer really on the agenda, but on the declaration of intent, set of goals and slogans. We are not left with the feeling that this document has been written in a hurry to formally comply with the requirements of Ukraine's "Pro Cabinet of Ministers" and "For the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine", which require the submission to the Supreme Council, as you know, of such a document within a month of the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I would also like to point out that from the government, on the one hand, the government declares the provision of social standards, including the increase in salaries for teachers, the development of science, what we have heard from the Prime Minister of Ukraine's mouth, the promotion of housing for Ukrainian defenders and internally displaced persons, and on the other hand we hear about the restrictions on the share of social security in the overall expenditure of the government to a modest 30 per cent. We're hearing in the government's programme of activities on creating conditions for Ukrainian citizens to accumulate on their own old age, and we're hearing from the mouths of the Ministry of Social Policy that the accumulation system will not be implemented in the near future; we're hearing about many contradictions that are in the mouths of individual ministries and that we're seeing now and we're reading in the program of the government of Ukraine. So is decentralization, administrative reform. We want to hear from the Prime Minister's mouth.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u33	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u34	We want to hear from the mouth of the Prime Minister of Ukraine when administrative reform and decentralization are completed, and that this will not affect economic and financial power.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u35	Thank you. In the corner of Marianne Volodymyr, the "Serial of the People" faction. Turn on the microphone. Turn on the microphone. Microphone from the spot. Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u36	It's a root.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u37	Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u38	Honorable colleagues, distinguished presidency, respected government! We want to say a few words from the faction of the "Serve of the People" Party. Well, really, the government program is first introduced in this new format. You could get acquainted, and I want to invite every Ukrainian to get acquainted with this program at the program.kmu.gov.ua. Unfortunately, we don't have the ability to show the site on our monitors, but I think we'll get to that soon. And it's really not just a beautiful picture, it's a reflection of a modern approach to development goals and directions. First of all, the government's agenda has a clear hierarchy of goals, where the economic growth rate is 5-7 per cent per year, which will allow us to go 40 per cent in five years. That's 50 (and that's the minimum that the government says) billion dollars of investment. It's a very ambitious amount, but it's critical to the development of the country. This is the introduction of a real subsistence minimum at the level of the law and, accordingly, the social guarantees associated with it. It's a change in demographic trends, that is to say, the transition to increasing birth rates and encouraging the return of our Ukrainians, who are now working in many places around the world. Creating one million additional jobs. Powerful infrastructure solutions on roads, airports, seaports. Reducing environmental pollution. The goals outlined in the program are understandable to every Ukrainian, and they give a comprehensive idea of what we want to see our country, which we want to see living standards in it, the level of prosperity. It's also important that the government program, like the President Zelensky program, with which he went to the elections and with which our party went to the elections, is a human-centred program. We're a human-centred force, we're going to repeat it and we're going to put it into our legislative initiatives, and the government is going to put it into practice. Programmes for every minister, every ministry. They're focused on achieving results for people. For the first time in Ukraine’s history, the government commits itself to a comprehensive improvement in people’s lives. It's about different aspects of life, from income to environmental conditions, from education to medicine, to the monopolization of the economy. In the government program for the first time, we have measured goals and personal responsibility, which is also very important. Targets are five years old, but control is predicted in the horizon is one year. We will constantly see progress or braking in achieving one or the other goals. For the first time in Ukraine’s history, indicators and targets are linked to the personal ministerial figures, that is, we will be able to determine the area of personal responsibility of everyone by which we will assess the impact, contribution, and contribution of a minister. And this is a new level of political responsibility, this is a new level of openness. The long - term goals presented in the program provide for a variety of ways to achieve them. That means, colleagues, we're also responsible for this program. And we're not just gonna vote for her right now, and we're gonna forget about her. Here's your bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u39	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Give me 10 seconds more.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u40	Each of us will take his own part in carrying out this program. And let's do it together.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u41	Natalia Igorovna Prijejsko. Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u42	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! We all understand that the government program is a road map for the next five years. Let's put it this way, a test of the skill of a given government to fulfill those pre-election promises to trusted voters. This is the main pain of this government, as is now all that monocolation has promised to accomplish and use. Bring people to life. Today, people ask us the main questions for everyone: what will happen to the peace that will be with tariffs, pensions, social protection, what will be the social standards, what will be the jobs, how will we now pay off the wages and what will be the wages in our country? And entrepreneurs are also asking why the government is destroying a small and medium-sized business operating on a simplified tax system. We all expected to see clear action plans, tasks, executions, key performance indicators for the government. What did we see? We've seen a treatise about what we're good at against everything that's bad. I want to believe, but unfortunately there is no reason. Because I'm sorry when I open the 26th page of the program and I read, "Future pensioners need to know what they need to do to ensure their own age, and the state needs to provide sufficient information." Are you kidding me? But you don't have to provide information, and you have to provide for the pension that people have earned today. You have to protect the Pension Fund from bankruptcy today, you have to mobilize all the resources today to make what you call a human-centred government program become really for the person in our country, for the person who worked his whole life, for the person who works today, for the person who needs social protection. It's not a promise program, it's a promise-making program. What are you telling us? 15 percent of the family's income is going to be GKG, okay, but you're in the budget reducing the subsidy payments. You're telling us about energy dependency, but at the same time, the abuse of miners continues. We have 33 government mines left, 8 doesn't work anymore, the next year we're going to have 5 government mines, 3 months of debt on coal miners' salaries, and so on and so forth. Dear, well, we really want to be constructive. We really want to be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u43	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u44	We are eager to support the program of effective government, but unfortunately we need a program to bring together professionals today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u45	Thank you. Please, next National Deputy Bobrovska Solomija Anatolyevna, Political Party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u46	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, we've studied the program carefully and we want to say the following, the Voice faction. Now you can see by the program who really understands what he's writing about and who doesn't. So if I thought it was more for the Prime Minister, but there are many chapters that are written as a creative child report. What would you like to mark? The first is that the program has good partitions, but all together it is not one complete program, because some chapters do not match others. I want to give you an example of how to get a child to a school in 30 minutes, as the government program says, first of all, to make roads and infrastructure, because it'll never get there and never get there. To fight for the extension of the lives of Ukrainians and to live longer, including, I remind you, Ukraine is the second country in Europe, where a large number of people die from alcoholism, we are offered to talk to you about preschoolers, how harmful it is. But this will not help, for there are many more opportunities and institutions in the country to do so, including the National Health Service, which has not been included in the program at all. I also want to say that to create 1 million jobs, I remind you, by world estimates, one job costs between $30 and $200,000 to create a new job. It takes a lot and a lot of money in the country, investment, and it takes a lot of time to change everything we talk about here: both judicial reform, and the prosecution, and everything else. It's a little bit unrealistic and populist. I also want to say that it would be, well, as I said before, it should be harmonised. Unfortunately, there are no important chapters such as the depopulation and reintegration of Donbas and the Crimea that we do there, what our policy is, how much money we invest there. It's not possible to make a decomposition and reintegration without investing there. Therefore, we would like to see this program more harmoniously, and some chapters should correspond to others, including whole - size measurements should match each other. The programme should correspond to the budget that has been given to Parliament and for which Parliament has spent a lot of time. Sadly, they do not answer very much. And we want them not to be individual puzzles, but one big picture of a successful Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u47	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine Alexeiyovich Honcharenko, faction of the political party "European Solidarity" is invited. Again. Alexeiyovich Honcharenko, European Solidarity Party, north of Odščina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u48	Thank you. It's a pleasure that Mr. First Vice Speaker already knows which district I'm representing. Alexei Hotcharenko, north of Clothing, European Solidarity. Dear friends, you know, I think we should start with the next one. The government is good. Dear Mr. Prime Minister. Dear Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm still addressing you. I think we should start with the next one. Today, the whole of Ukraine celebrates the upcoming Teacher’s Day. Today, all of you standing there applauded the newly elected composition of the Central Election Commission. I think 500,000 Ukrainian teachers deserve us to cheer together and thank everyone! Together, let us thank the Ukrainian teachers who are working today and who are really creating the future of our country! [[Applause]] Thank you, dear friends! Thank the Ukrainian teacher! So this would be the best gift for Ukrainian teachers if our government came today and said, "We want to increase the material provision of the teacher." Let's not make it up to $4,000, as Greens have promised in the election, but at least 4,000 dollars, what was done by the past government, the "crime power" that you're so critical of, and what you're not going to do right now, and what's not in the budget, anywhere. Actually, when, here, I'm holding this piece in my hands right now -- the Ukrainian Government Program -- it's the work of the 11th grader on "the Ukraine of my dream." Well, I have a right to say that because, listen to what it says, "The Ukrainians live longer, less sick, the Ukrainians are happy, the Ukrainians know about their country." That's great. How? Well, pearl, that's all. I, you know, I'm just the best thing I can see about you, that's all. And I'm going to quote this now: "We're going to pay attention to those citizens who live in dormitories on unintelligible legal grounds. Their rights must be protected. This will increase the level of birth rate and reduce the level of anxiety among the population that is not provided with housing and help to reduce the number of people who emigrate from Ukraine." I have one question, Mr. Hotcharuk, is, what happens first, will the birth rate rise or the anxiety decrease? How is it intertwined? It's an absolute piece, I'll repeat, on a free topic. And that's really surprising. Because if you don't know how to write, really, the government program, it's not that hard. You could turn around. There are, for example, books. I specifically bought you a book by Michael Barber, "How to manage the government," which the British government official wrote in English, there are examples here that should be goals, for example, over the years, by literacy, by percentage, for everything. I, Mr. Prime Minister, will present this book to you now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u49	Ten seconds and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u50	Thank you. Ten seconds. I'm done. I'm going to give you this book, and I'm going to ask you to study it and not to wear it anymore, but to wear a real program to the government of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u51	Thank you. Andrew Ivanovich Nikolayenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u52	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister, government officials and honourable colleagues! I'm not going to compete with Alexi Honcharenko in the epathesis about presenting anything, but in fact, we've carefully analyzed the document in the "Fatherland" faction, especially his field of work, and we can say that, in principle, I think, like most Ukrainians, we would be happy if Ukraine looked in five years as it was written in what's called the government's Action Program, and I emphasize the word "act." Moreover, we believe that Ukraine has the potential even to exceed those targets by 40 percent, 50 billion, and much more. But it's going to get a little sadder. The orientations are very good. But as far as action is concerned, what you have to do to achieve the 50 billion of external investment, 24,000 miles of roads and so on is a big problem. And that's the main thing that's bothering us. Because, in fact, if we look at other documents, namely the state budget, where we're supposed to give a third of them back to external debt, if we look at a number of other tasks that we're facing, we see that there's no way of doing that. Well, if you stop at 50 billion foreign investment, and I hope Ukrainian investment is a lot. At the same time, we have already adopted certain bills that are beating in small, medium-sized businesses, and in the approach, and today they are, for today (it's 1209 and 1210), which will hit the economy as a whole, in the main export-oriented sectors of the economy. So we're saying that the strengthening of administration, that a number of other changes can make Ukraine more attractive. With these changes, we remember that we are becoming less attractive than our first neighbors, even Poland or Romania’s next - door neighbor. Other norms that say, "Ukraine has to become energy independent." Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that you want to consider and approve in the first reading today is to kill the motivation of foreign investors to go to the Ukrainian gas industry. We can't afford it, because we're talking clearly about it and about Ukrainian peasants working and farmers working in Ukraine on the ground, on their own land, while supporting such a bill for land reform, which is now being published by this government. So given all these points, especially that we don't all like monopolies, and it says here that the monopoly will not be, I just remind you, this is the authority of the Supreme Council, not the government, and the Antimonopoly Committee is an independent body.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u53	10 seconds, not 10 minutes, Andrew Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u54	minutes, but 10 seconds. So the whole thing's nice. If help is needed in writing actions to achieve these goals, we are ready to help.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u55	Thank you, Andre Ivanovich. Presentations by the National Deputies from the Committees. I'm going to suggest that I give every committee head a two-minute performance. I'll start with the Committee on Economic Development, which has been discussing the issue. Rocksolana Andriyevna. It's better from the rostrum. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! The government's agenda reflects an honest position. If we want to increase social spending, we need to increase the budget. The only fair way to increase revenue is to stimulate economic growth. The theory tells us that the main deterrent to economic growth is usually weak competition in markets. So one of the fundamental principles of economic work is the demonopolization and development of economic competition. Ukraine now ranks 83th in terms of the development of competition in the world. One of the obvious reasons is the weak and politicized Antimonopoly Committee. But it's a big mistake to think that one relaunch of AMCA will solve the problem of developing competition. Equally, the problem is the reinforcement of state-owned enterprises that use state-owned benefits. And putting a system in the administration of state ownership is one of the tasks the government is tasking. And the Economic Development Committee is ready to help carry out this task. Another obstacle to competition development is economic regulation, licensing and licensing procedures, registration procedures and tax administration. Therefore, the government, together with Parliament, has already adopted initiatives to raise Ukraine's position in the Doing Business rating and simplify work for all entrepreneurs. We've heard that the government understands the importance of increasing productivity as a basis for economic growth. We see that the Mineconomy also understands that no growth points will save the Ukrainian economy, and it makes a bet on the development of all sectors. That is why the Economic Development Committee supports the Government's Action Programme and calls on all deputies to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u57	Okay. The report is given to Solski Mikola Tarasovich. For the show, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u58	Thank you, Mr. Head. Good day to all your colleagues! The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Agriculture of the Government of Ukraine has set up a series of agrosses that will contribute to economic recovery, including by stimulating and increasing economic activity in the agricultural field. To achieve it, it is suggested that the following series of steps be taken. Cancel the moratorium on agricultural land as a result of the efficiency and productivity of agricultural use. There will be a substantial increase every year due to increased levels of economic competition, as well as increased sectors and the development of agricultural sectors that hold back from the moratorium. To deregulation of land matters, to equalize taxes on land. This, in particular, applies to land taxes, as a minimum it should be aligned with taxes paid by companies registered in the fourth group. Enter anti-land surveyors and introduce modern spatial data infrastructure. In addition, among the government's tasks, which are fully understood and supported, I think, as far as possible by all MPs and society, it is to ensure that land is reported to the State Land Inventory by the end of 2020. In addition, it is planned to provide national financial support to farmers for the purchase of agricultural land and the development of their business, the development of a safety, control and quality system, the application of EU examples in Ukraine, the list of food additives, flavourers, enzymes, the introduction of a voluntary certification system for animal origin since 2020. The introduction of small, medium-sized businesses through the provision of cheap ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u59	Ten seconds. But, colleagues, let's invest in time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u60	In addition, I would like to report that the agrarian committee will meet next Wednesday to examine the government's programme in detail and discuss it separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u61	Committee on Budget Aristov Yuriovich. But the request to invest in 2 minutes, as provided by our deadline.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u62	Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, colleagues! Dear Prime Minister and members of the government! With regard to the Government's Programme of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers within the competence of the Committee on Budget and Time, I would like to draw attention to the support given by the Ministry of Finance for the purpose of ensuring macroeconomic stability and strengthening the public finances system. This is about reducing government debt to 40 percent of gross domestic product and budget deficit to one and a half percent of GDP by the end of the 24th year, and reducing the cost of public debt service. Today, large amounts of government debt for huge amounts of expenditure on its services, repayments do not allow the necessary budgetary resources to be channelled to the most important areas: social protection, education, medicine, regional development, and so on. An important task is the activity envisaged to achieve a minimum deviation of actual budget indicators from planned ones, which has not yet been achieved by any government. Such a task is to ensure that the new government directly improves the quality of budget planning, continuous monitoring and timely response to potential risks in the implementation of the budget. In addition, attention should be paid to the effectiveness of the distribution and use of public budget funds and the achievement of effective indicators, as well as to the strengthening of control over the coming-expenditure of budgetary resources. In particular, it is worth noting that the government should work constructively with Parliament to implement the key programming tasks of the President of Ukraine and the envisaged programmes of the Cabinet of Ministers in the State Budget Bill for the 20th year. To conclude, I would like to wish the government fruitful and productive work, effective interaction with Parliament, full implementation of the work programmes and the achievement of the goals set to improve the welfare of citizens and the development of the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u63	Thank you. Tkachenko Alexander Vladislavovich, Committee on Humanities and Information Policy
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u64	Good afternoon! What were the areas of culture, tourism, and youth? Usually these areas, which have always been homeless in our country, were mostly mentioned as holidays, were the last in line for funding. Although it is indeed a powerful engine for the economy and for the unification of the state. No country in the world has come out of crisis solely because of economic reforms and economic factors, primarily due to culture, nationalism, religion, and national interests. The new Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports has just been called upon to make an extremely important and major reform in our country. We call these industries creative. There should be some performance indicators in creative industries. This is primarily about providing normal information not only to our citizens without manipulation but also information in occupied areas. It's about criteria that allow you to have a choice and an opportunity to eat cultural services. This means increasing attendance at museums, theaters, and so forth. It belongs to the only cultural space where the identity of the feeling of the citizen and the vision, the place and the role of Ukraine comes first. The indicator of active participation in the social life of young Ukrainians and physical activities, and active travel by Ukraine, instead of continuing to export billions of dollars abroad. Five years from now, I'd like our ministry to report on how we've raised at least 5 percent of the country's budget revenue from tourism, so that Ukrainian films can raise more money for rent than Hollywood blockbusters, and mass sports is extremely large, at least 50 percent of Ukrainians. I therefore wish success to the new ministry and I am aspiring to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u65	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Environment by Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u66	Good afternoon, distinguished government, good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! Today we define the government's strategy for all directions of life of the country for a few years. It is an extremely responsible document, and as a result of its implementation, society must make sure that the State is doing its utmost to fulfil its functions and to respect the guarantees of the rights and freedoms set forth in the Constitution. The Committee on Environmental Policy and Use supports the fact that much of the programme is dedicated to improving the environment and is focused on a human-friendly environment, and this is extremely important in view of the environmental situation in our country: pressures on the environment are increasing, industrial pollution continues to threaten the health of the population, environmental security and economic stability of the state. There are virtually no natural resources left that can be described as at least satisfactory. The message of the unification of Nature and Minenergo was at first negatively accepted by the Ecosocial and Committee, but further constructive cooperation and full understanding of the priority of environmental problems on the part of the newly created ministry gave us confidence in the rationale behind such a merger. However, some of the declarative goals that have been declared without indicators of real performance are of concern. Individual performance indicators for natural resources are defined by income per resource rather than by reducing their usage and by increasing reproduction. The goal of saving natural ecosystems for offspring does not have any indicators of effectiveness. In spite of this, the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Management supports the objectives proposed in the programme and, in cooperation with the government, will contribute to their implementation, in particular by developing and improving legislation on environmental protection and management.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u67	Thank you. The word is given to Gerus Andrija Mikhailovich, Committee on Energy and Housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u68	Good day, fellow believers, a respected government! First of all, I would like to point out that there are, in fact, a lot of specific things in the government program that every Ukrainian can feel and can feel the Ukrainian people in real life. First of all, I'd like to point out two things that I've personally paid attention to, and which I want to make a positive note of. It's about energy efficiency. The government program states that in five years the loss of heat, the loss of hot water, and energy efficiency should be reduced to 20 percent. I want to say that 20 percent is basically about reducing or saving on utility tariffs, on utility bills for every Ukrainian family between 8 and 10,000 dollars a year. So it's really possible to say that this is a human-centred program because it actually feels like every Ukrainian. The second question that I would also like to point out is the issue of the antimonopoly environment and the creation of competition. The government programme states that the Gerfinder-Gurschman index in the five sectors, in the five largest industries, has to be halved, and this also has a direct impact on every Ukrainian, because, for example, today, in the framework of the Burst Island (this is the three Western Ukrainian regions), one company controls 95 percent of the generation of electricity and, as a result, in three areas -- Jono-Frankivska, Zakarpatska and Lvivska -- we have an electricity price of 20 percent higher than in all other areas. So that's also a very important question, and it's very good that the government put it in priority. And the third point that I want to pay attention to. Mrs. Oksana Markarov. There has already been a political promise that there is an additional one billion dollars to be put into the 2019 budget for the Ukrainian state coal sector. So I'd like us to solve this issue as quickly as possible in the budget changes, because Ukrainian miners are waiting for this extra billion dollars, it's very much needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u69	Thank you, Andry Mikhailovich. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance of Raducci Mikhail Borisovich. Follow the rules, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u70	Honorable colleagues, Honourable Head, Honorable Government, Honorable People of Ukraine! We have a common vision of the goal and priorities with the President of Ukraine and a close interaction with the government to implement them. Our goal is more accessible, quality and cost-effective medicine in Ukraine, because the lives of Ukrainians are the highest value. The priorities of the transformation of the Ukrainian health system, which our committee is focusing on, are to develop success and address health reform shortcomings, increase access to the health system, improve the quality of medical services and medicines, and ensure the rational use of health funds. Demonopolization, public private partnership and competition in the interests of patients. To implement these priorities, we will implement in the near future: insurance medicine with a wide-ranging package, a paid state; a fair formula and an increase in the pay of medical personnel; insurance for professional responsibility of doctors and effective medical self-government; strict control of the authenticity and quality of medicines through the GMP, QR-coding system; and the cost of medicines through the introduction of the service; procurement in bullk; and the development of home-based farm production. Maximizing the adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to the euro-redictive and direct fields of medicine and pharmaceuticals and education. Uncompromising anti-corruption, smart deregulation and eHealth, maximum reduction in artificial help and permissions and switching to electronic services. The committee is working with the ILO and with better experts to develop appropriate legislation. We are counting on their full support in Parliament and the Government of Ukraine, which will help us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u71	Thank you. Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation Yaremenko Bogdan Vasilovich, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u72	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! To our consideration, we have an innovative and interesting document. And I understand why colleagues sitting on a political gallery don't quite understand because they're used to the elaborate political stories that are presented in style when there's no responsible, when there's no way to check whether or not they're done. In the draft document presented by the government, it is clear and easy to understand what priorities the government is going to make and how we will verify whether the results have been achieved. I'm glad that aside from innovation, this document is human-centred. In the external political sphere, the centrality of the document is that, for the first time, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has defined citizens, its needs, the availability of services that should provide foreign political authority. An important priority is external economic activity, which I think completely reflects our understanding of the situation in the country when we need additional resources for development and for defence. You can agree with those colleagues who told the government that there were no foreign policy guidelines in the document. Here we need the Prime Minister to point out that not only the legislative activities of the Supreme Council should be predicted, but also the political activities of the government. And it is particularly important to highlight the exceptionally accurate pragmatic teaching of those issues that are under the responsibility of the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on issues of European and Euro-Atlantic integration. Without population, it is clear that our nation will do everything possible to integrate into the EU and NATO in order not to ask for membership, but to do everything possible to get closer to the moment that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u73	Thank you, Bogdan Vasilovich. The word is given to Jean Wensanovic Belenyuk, deputy head, first deputy head of the Committee on Youth and Sports. Prepare Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u74	Thank you for the word. Jean Belenjuk, Servant of the People. First, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for having mentioned sport in his speech, he mentioned mass sport. But what I want to add is that in addition to mass sports, we have a high-performing sport, there are Olympics, there are athletes who are celebrating our country in the international arena, and there is a positive image of our country in general. And in general, I think sport is strategic for our country. And this is a guarantee of the health of all Ukrainians, to be kept in mind. And the more we invest in sports, the less we have to put into medicine after. But now, unfortunately, sports have a lot of problems. And one of these urgent problems is the financing of children's school coaches who are now going abroad and training, unfortunately, other athletes who are choosing gold medals for those countries. An outdated material and technology base, here, and sports objects don't recover for decades, unfortunately. And the idea of sports medicine has ceased to exist. And I would very much like to ask the Prime Minister, as a state budget, the government will address these really urgent issues. Thank you for your attention. And I'm waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u75	Thank you, Jean-Vensanovic. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u76	Good afternoon, Your Honor, Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister, Your Honorable Colleagues! Well, this is the first head of a committee that doesn't belong to the "Serial of the People" political party. I would also like to point out that we are pleased that the Government's Action Programme reflects parts related to European and Euro-Atlantic integration. We are also grateful to the Ministry of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture for paying particular attention to the implementation of the Association Agreement and for detailing the specific measures they are planning to take. At the same time, we did not see in the Government's Action Programme the implementation of those priorities that were approved by both the 19th and the 20th summits of Ukraine – the EU – on Ukraine's integration into the energy, digital market of the European Union, and on integrated border management. I'd like to see, actually, actions in this direction. Regrettably, there is no mention of Ukraine’s intention to fulfil all its obligations under the Association Agreement. Although it looks like it's five years old. Well, and in fact, I would like to point out that there should be a wish and a desire to initiate the preparation of analytical reports, a screening of the status of compliance with the Association Agreement. Well, there's one more thing. I am extremely sorry, colleagues, that this government, such a progressive government, has refused to prioritize equality between men and women. Obviously, they don't know that more women's work can increase GDP even in economies like the United States by 5 percent, in economies like Japan by 9 percent. You are simply, colleagues, unfortunately, losing a serious resource, a serious resource to society. I'd like to adjust yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u77	Ten seconds, Ivanno Orestovno.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u78	And yet to prioritise the task of gender equality in Ukraine. 53 percent of the population is women, don't forget that this is part of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u79	The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development, and Construction of Kloczko Andriy Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u80	Good afternoon, dear fellows! As head of the Committee on Public Authority Organizations, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development, I would like to express my support for the priorities set out in the Government Programme of the Ministry of Social Development and Areas of Ukraine. The successful implementation of the seven chosen directions of work will increase the comfort of citizens’ lives in all regions of the country. It is important that the key direction of the ministry is the realization of the right of Ukrainians to comfortable and affordable housing. For the first time in a day’s time, the concept of state housing policy has emerged among the main national priorities, which is based on a systematic approach. This will enable the key problems in the housing market to be solved and will increase citizens’ satisfaction with their housing conditions. I also welcome the Government's intentions to start systematic work on the introduction of sustainable spatial development approaches, the need to have city documentation for building and overcoming corruption in the area of state architectural and building control. In this context, I would like to draw your attention to the need to solve the problem of long-term buildings and to create a more efficient, secure scheme for the involvement of investors in the construction of housing. I also stress the priority of another issue that hurts Ukrainian citizens to obtain quality and affordable housing services. The implementation of the strategic objective set out in the Government Programme, namely: increasing energy efficiency in civil buildings and the housing sector, which will be implemented through public support tools, such as the Energy Efficiency Fund, will help reduce consumer spending on municipal services. The program also plans to develop a single system for monitoring energy consumption of buildings and the construction of state and local authorities. This will be implemented by starting up an energy and operational database of buildings. Finally, I'm going to point out that the committee is ready to work closely with the Ministry and the Cabinet of Ministers to implement the government's priority activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u81	Thank you. The word is given to the Zavodnievich Alexander Mikhailovich, the Committee on National Security, Defence, and Intelligence.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u82	Good day, Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the government! First of all, I would like to thank the government for presenting the Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action, which sets priorities for the government. I would like to point out that ensuring Ukraine’s national security, restoring its territorial integrity and sovereign sovereignty, as well as increasing the state’s position to an international security level were and remain among the priority issues that stand in the order of the day and require special attention. Ukraine’s current threats to national security, which require the development of road maps for immediate response and their neutralization, remain. In particular, the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine in the Kerchen Strait and in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, the annexation of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and the violation of Ukrainian citizens. The rights of Ukrainian citizens in its territory. As head of the Parliamentary Committee, I ask the Government to focus its efforts on democratic civilian control over the national security and defence sector, particularly for targeted and efficient spending of public budget costs, the implementation of NATO values and standards, the improvement of legislation on the administration of state property in the defence and industrial complex and the regulation of procurement for defence purposes, the improvement of the social protection of military personnel and members of their families. Unfortunately, the program doesn't include the development of the Ucroborprom. I have great hope for a common success in overcoming all challenges and threats. So I want the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to succeed in achieving their high goal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the head of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Interimly Occupied Territories in Donetsk, Luhansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in Sevastopol, the National Minorities and the International Relations of Lubinets Dmitry Valeriyovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u84	Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to ask that, when the heads of the parliamentary committees and the Prime Minister speak, and all the members of the government hear what we're talking about here. That’s what it feels like to do it for ourselves. I wanted to say that it was our committee that initiated the first exit session in Donetsk and Luhansk region from October 20th to 25. And we invite members of the government or as substitutes to join us. Human Rights Committee. In fact, nice words, nice slogans are written in the program, but we would like real protection of human rights to be recorded in the government budget. It wasn't a reduction in social programs, it was a real protection when the program was backed up by financial resources. When we talk about veterans, temporary displaced persons, teachers, children, orphans, they're all social programs that are in the state budget, and they have to be protected and strengthened by financial resources. We ask you very much. Deoccupation and reintegration of temporarily occupied areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea This name affects virtually every ministry in the Ukrainian government. So we come out of the committee with this kind of initiative, if we can, and we look at the proposal to create a vice-premier to deal with these issues. And the main thing is national minorities and inter-national relations. Every third country in this country is a citizen of Ukraine, but it has some roots of national minorities. So I sincerely welcome yesterday’s open invitation to take up the vacant office of the Head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of ethics and freedom of conscience. Bo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u85	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u86	Because for the time being, Mr. Prime Minister, no government agency is dealing with matters of national minorities other than our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u87	Thank you. The word is given to the Head of the Freedom of Speech Committee, Schuffrich Nestor Ivanovich. You don't? Motovlover.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u88	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the honorable government! I want to remind you why you became Prime Minister and I became a National Deputy. Because people wanted the changes we all promised them. This week a deputy minister of infrastructure, Lavrenjuk Yuri, appeared in the cabinet’s bed in the Supreme Council. I want to remind you of his accomplishments. Three years ago, my quota principle went back to the People's Front. For three years we received a minister who wrote a post on Facebook, and his deputy built corruption schemes through enterprises controlled by the Ministry of Infrastructure. He's in office now. The entire maritime community has appealed to Parliament, to the government, to the President with a request to change and bring order to the Ministry through the liberation of the past, the past people who have led us to power by their actions. I'm asking you to make personnel changes, I'm asking you to listen to the sector that has made the most investment. How do you think our government plan has 50 billion investments, investors entering Ukraine will ask investors today how the Ministry treats them, and how do active members of the government feel about them? Thank you. Freedom of speech is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u89	Thank you. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure, Kisiel Yuri Grigorovich. Skipper Alexander Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u90	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Prime Minister, thank you, first of all, for the program of activity. In general, the Transport and Infrastructure Committee supports the project, but we also call attention to the need to improve its individual points. First of all, about the most painful questions for Ukrainians on the road. In addition to financing repair work, which is certainly important, we need to pay attention to road safety and reduce accidents. To understand the magnitude of this problem, I'm going to give you literally a few numbers. Last year there were more than 150,000 accidents in our country, more than 3,000 people died, listen to these figures, every day we lose 10 Ukrainians because of road accidents. Since 2018, the State Road Fund has been in operation, with 5 percent of which focuses on road safety measures defined in the relevant national programme. But in 2018 it was executed by only a third, by 34 percent. That's why I urge the government to ensure the implementation of the state's "Raising Road Safety in Ukraine" programme. What about rail transport? The first priority is to demonopolize the services of rail transport, introduce a competitive market and end the reform of Cruise. Even though UZ declares profitability today in the example of 2018, the enterprise needs changes. We also thank you for hearing us. We hope you will hear us today. And thank you for your fruitful cooperation. In general, the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure supports the project proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u91	Yes, colleagues, I understand that all the committees have spoken. If you don't mind, I suggest you give the closing statement two minutes to the head of the government and go to the vote. Okay? Thank you. Dear colleagues, heads of factions, please invite the people's deputies to the hall, and we will now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u92	Dear colleagues! Thank you so much for the feedback. Once again, the document we offered you may be. is a little out of the ordinary for Ukrainian politics. There aren't all these crazy concepts strategies, and so on and so forth. We really tried to write it in as simple a language as possible. If someone, like, seems to be living in a dormitory, and they actually live there, like at least four of these people I know personally, and their legal status is a matter that should not be taken care of by the government, we think we should take care of such problems. And the confidence of such people in tomorrow is really going to contribute to their productivity, their birth rate, and other factors that affect economic growth. We really tried to look at the situation around us because of prism, because of life stories, because of people, because of their real problems. In order not to target, but the quality of the abstract indicators, but in order to make every goal we set ourselves a reality to improve the living conditions of Ukrainians. There's, Ivanno Orestive, and integration into the energy system, and integration with digital single space, we've heard that there's a need to pay special attention to gender equality, and I think in our government it's already at a good level. In general, these are the goals that we ask you to establish for us, and after which you will determine our effectiveness over a period of time. Colleagues, for each of these purposes, we are with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u93	Let me finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u94	This is the basis for our work. For each of these purposes, we have to sit with you on committees, in ministries together, look at statistics, analyze what we actually have, and together find the best way for Ukrainians to live happier lives. I thank you very much for your support in advance. Let's do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u95	Thank you, Alexia Valeriovich. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole draft Decree (Registration No. 2186) on the Program of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please prepare for the vote. Ready? Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. Wait. Wait, don't turn it on. What, Michael Borisovich? Sit down, you guys. There's a lot of you in this sector. Colleagues, please sit down. Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:46:25]] For 236 Hello. [[Applause]] 236, 21 against, holding 36. The decision is taken, the decision is taken as a whole. Welcome to the government. I wish you success and strength. Show by factions. The People's Party – 225, "The Opposition Platform – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 0, "For the Future" – 6, "The Voice" – 0, non-fractional – 5. Decision taken. Thank you. Thank you, Government. Dear colleagues, look at the situation. We've got some left. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you, Prime Minister. I wish you success! Give me your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u96	Yeah, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u97	One minute. We just have to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u98	All right. I'm not gonna take up your time. Thank you very much, colleagues! We're off to work. Thank you again for your support. We're a great team! Hold on!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look at the situation. We have 15 minutes left. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, we've got 15 minutes. Next thing you know, we've got a day's work. Wait. There are tough bills. It's suggested to go like this. We have two bills, 1049, 1051, that don't have any law. I'd like to take a look at them now. And then put 1035-2 if we get to the end. Please vote in favour and support. Please support and vote. Wait, stop the vote. Once again, colleagues, please, we vote in favour of changing the agenda and now consider Bill 1049, 1051. In order to consider them now, so as not to go into the consideration of a bill that will, well, take a long time. Please support and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait. Please support and vote. [[17:49:10]] For 229 Against - 6, holding - 28. Decision taken. You will have before you the proposed draft Law amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of a single tax and congregation account, the only contribution to the general government social insurance. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, for your consideration we have. What's the first law we're considering? 1049. They relate to each other and, in fact, one to make changes to the Tax Code, the other to make changes to other legislation. This is the only account for our entrepreneurs. What will these laws decide? First, they're going to solve the problem of paying taxes when an entrepreneur has one account (they're now paying for different taxes), one account has an overpayment, the other one has an underpayment and it's still fined. We have introduced this law, according to which, if an entrepreneur counts a single account, his tax liability is deemed to be met. In addition, the only account is synchronized with the tax payer’s electronic office. We have taken a very important step when we can pay taxes not only to the state budget but also to the local tax system. But for the moment, the State Tax Office and Treasury are not ready to implement this mechanism immediately, so we're giving them until 2021 to prepare their systems. In addition, a very important norm in this bill, it's a ban on putting an arrest into accounts in the VAT electronic administration system, it's what the business asked us to do, it's what the Ministry of Finance asked us to do for a long time. The bill is supported by a committee. Please support him in his second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u101	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. All the amendments that were before this bill were taken into account. That's why I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of a single tax and congregation account, the only contribution to the mandatory public social insurance (registration number 1049). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:52:17]] For 255 Against - 1, hold on - 14. Thank you, the decision is made. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, you have been proposed a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the introduction of a single tax and congregation account, a single contribution to a mandatory state social insurance (registration number 1051). He's reporting to the Gethmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u102	I won't waste your time. This bill is related to the previous one. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, all the amendments in this bill have been taken into account. It's a motive, it's a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u104	Colleagues, you just passed a previous law and didn't read one amendment that should not be regulated by the law. But I wasn't given a word, so I'm responsible to you. Indeed, there are no harmful amendments to this law. Please vote, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m1.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the introduction of a single tax and assembly bill, the only contribution to the general government social insurance obligation (registration No. 1051). Please support and vote. [[17:53:58]] For 274 Against - 1, hold - 0. Thank you. Decision taken. I'm sorry, 274, against 0, hold on to 1. Thank you. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The last question that is proposed today is two revisions, if I'm not mistaken. Draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. No, no. Vote? Oh, no? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, what are you talking about? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, then I propose to close the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. I declare closed the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I wish everyone a good weekend and a good week's work. Don't forget the cards. Thank you.
