ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare to resume our work. Please prepare for registration. I'd like you to register with the National Deputies. [[16:04:15]] There were 346 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue to consider matters of the order of the day. And according to the agenda, we should be looking at a bill of 6275-d with you. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the conduct of economic activity from intermediation in employment abroad. This is rereading the second reading. But there is no committee representative, so we're going to postpone the consideration of this bill. And we're going to look at the issues of order in the first reading. The following bills are for registration number 6424-d and 6424-1. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian RSR Housing Code and other Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of owners (users) of housing. Please. I would like to invite the people's deputies to support the consideration of this bill by means of a reduced procedure. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[16:05:58]] For-49 The decision is not made. That's why we're going to consider these bills in full procedure. And I invite you to the author's report on the bill, the national MP of Ukraine, Arthur Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u2	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! The question of using apartments in a housing fund does not really go far beyond just numbers or just letters in some law. Because many times during the time that we have considered this law in Parliament, remember, we have also had failed to vote, we have had successful vote to put it into the agenda of the bill, and unfortunately sad events have happened. When the hostel in Zaporozhye was burned down, many people were killed. When the hostel was burning in Kiev, and luckily it was just the second floor, and people could just jump out the windows. But when it comes to multiple apartment buildings with more than 16 floors, you realize that when a fire, unfortunately, starts -- 30th, 37th, 40th floor, and unfortunately, the house isn't suited for a certain number of people, and it's equipped, according to DBN, for a much smaller number of people, it really leads to tragedy. Therefore, the honourable colleagues in relation to Bill 6424-d are the key innovations in the following things. First. With regard to apartment buildings of 16 floors, more than 16 floors, it is forbidden to use apartments as offices. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the registration of legal persons in these premises is not prohibited. That is, the bill does not touch on this subject. In addition, the bill does not fall under the 1st floor, the 2nd floor, the floor of the building, the basement, and the last floor of the building, even if there are 30, 35 or 40 floors, they don't fall under it. Besides, we're clearly protecting the fops. And I am grateful to the representatives of all the factions that have worked on this bill, along with the working group, and within the committee, the representatives of Fatherland, Alexander Volodymyrni Kugel, the representatives of Self-Help, because we have actually protected the Fopas, because now it is allowed for those who, for example, live in this room and use this apartment for farming, but without the use of employment, are allowed to use these premises. So the bill is balanced at the moment. And it was also very clear when the working group was working on the question of responsibility for committing crimes in this area, because unfortunately, you know, those who are living now, and I know that there are also a lot of people in this room who have personally faced problems that are being solved by this bill. Thus, there are so many problems at present, and because no one is responsible for controlling this situation, no one is responsible for the use of certain means of coercion to help people solve situations that arise in multi-family housing. That is why this issue has also been discussed in detail, over and over and over in the working group by representatives of all factions, all groups of parliament, non-fractional and it has also been spoken repeatedly in the committee. And, honourable colleagues, this bill now includes an article that amends the Ukrainian Tourism Act and defines the term "hostel." And I would like to refer to you and to the transcript to ask that, when voting for this bill in the committee's decision on the basis, (underlining – on the basis that we can also process it in detail and in the second reading) take into account the definition of the hostel, which is present in the alternative bill 6424-1, d-1, of the People's MP Levchenk. Because as part of the working group we've been looking at this issue and we've decided that this particular definition of a hostel is more balanced, it's more appropriate today to introduce a bill on. The Ukrainian Tourism Act. So, in summary, my fellow dignitaries, I would like to ask you to support unanimously, all factions and groups, this bill on the basis, but given that this bill will use the definition of "hospital" from the alternative bill 6424-1 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. If there's a need and if there's a need, I can read this definition under the stenogram. Thus, the hostel is a small tourist hostel, located in a separate residential (non-residential) house, part of a non-residential (non-residential) house (sectional), with no more than five rooms or separate rooms of different capacity, but with no more than six persons in one room (a separate room) and no less than two sanvus and a separate room (zone) to communicate with guests. The hostels should have a separate entrance and an exit directly to the instigation area of the house or the street. In the case of a hostel located on the first or basement floor of multiple apartment buildings, approaches and approaches to the hostel should not prevent access to every entrance of the building by fire trucks, ambulances, and mobile utilities. The accommodation of a hostel in a multi-family house is permitted by the decision of the owners of a multi-room house, which was adopted in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Real Estate in a Multi-Apartment House. And finally. Dear colleagues, the essence of this bill is not just about the comfort of the people living in apartment housing, it's not just about the fact that the housing fund is actually being used not for the purpose, it's really about the preservation of the lives of the people living in apartment buildings, because the situation is very simple. According to building standards, when housing is built, housing and exits and how stairs are built and how these buildings are generally designed are calculated for a certain number of persons. The placement of offices in these apartment - size buildings has significantly shifted the number of people in this house at the same time. And when it comes up, the defense of God, the critical situation, can really be a question of when this number of exits, this number of stairs, and the system of fire safety in general, is not enough to save lives. And I was already giving you examples when the hostel in Zaporozhye was burned and people died when the hostel was burned in Kiev and, glory be to you, Lord, that was the second floor and people were able to jump. But from the thirtieth floor or from the fortieth or the twenty - fifth floor, you will not jump. Therefore, honourable colleagues, ask for support on the basis of the definition of a hostel from an alternative bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u3	Thank you, colleagues. But before you record the question. Before I record the question, I want to make an announcement, colleagues. In Ukraine, with an official visit, the delegation of the National Council of the Republic of Austria is headed by Mr. Wolfgang Sobotka, Head of the National Council. [[Applause]] And I want to welcome both the Head of Parliament and the members of the delegation. We held a meeting and Mr. Head assured us that Austria's consistent firm position on the support of Ukrainian sovereignty would continue to be as firm. For five years Austria has joined sanctions against the Russian Federation. And we talked about both cultural and humanitarian cooperation between our countries. And I want a fruitful visit to our country and a vivid impression from the hospitable Ukrainian land. Have a good visit! Thank you. Now, please record the question to the reporter. Paul Kishkar. I'm not done.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u4	Kugel, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u5	Coosel, yeah. I can't see. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u6	Mr. Head, you're closed by the tree, the holidays are over, you can have them cleaned up, or I've missed you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u7	Right, I'm assigning the Supreme Council of Ukraine to clean up the Christmas tree during the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u8	And the question to the reporter is this. You know, frankly I want to tell you, in the first version of the bill that you introduced, it was more important to me, because I live in a large floor house where all the residents of this house suffer because half the house is rented by people, and it's not tax-controlled, it's not controlled by militia, there's some massage parlors that work nights, junkies and everything. And I preferred a very harsh position that there can't be offices in the apartment buildings, there can't be offices on the first floor, if it's taken out, yes, from the housing fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u9	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u10	And inside the housing fund, I'm against both clusters and against any offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u11	Dear Alexander Volodymyr, dear colleagues! With regard to this bill, there are really big debates, more precise discussions, there is now an almost agreed position. And I would like to invite everyone who is speaking today to make adjustments to their second reading so that the decision that will come out of the committee, it, as we discussed with many colleagues, protects the residents of many apartment buildings, it's state-owned and, on the other hand, it doesn't hurt business, you remember how we discussed it with you. And here, if there's a committee's will, if there's a room's will, at the level of second reading, to support a more rigid concept, there's no question. If the hall decides to support the softer, we will take this first step, and after that we will go out on more harsh things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u12	Thank you. Ivan Dmitrovich Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u13	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, the reporter made it very clear, and we all understand how to make changes to the Housing Code, which is, first of all, to ensure the rights of homeowners. But my question is, please tell us, you told us, well, of course, we'll take the first reading as a basis, there's no questions here, because it's necessary, not being used on the first, second and third floors, and on the last, what's the reason? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u14	Thank you, Ivan Dmitrovich. First. Regarding building standards. And it's in every house, first, second, cap and last floor, even in the housing fund, that's allowed to house non-residential rooms. And it's normal, it's a world practice, in terms of that. But I think it'll be interesting for my colleagues, because when I was drafting this bill, I was also collecting international experience on this issue. That's interesting. For example, in the United States, when studying experience, it looks something like this. Over the past 20 years, the system of residence permits has been considerably weakened. Now you can have offices if they don't have any more, if I'm right, two people without parking, without hanging out. No, no, no, no, No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So we're clearly going from the point of view of building standards and from the point of view of the practice of using real construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u15	Thank you. And the final question of Belkova Olga Valentinovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Reporter, you've already begun to answer a question that I wanted to ask, but what is the international practice today, especially in European countries, of using housing, where there are many apartments for different offices. It's very important to understand, well, that we don't invent something so new, and that we go within, let's say, rights and freedoms that are typical of our region, namely Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u17	Thank you for asking. I want to say right now that the situation of office space, production and anything at all in the housing fund and in Europe and in the United States and in Canada and in general in the developed countries, it's very strict, it's simply forbidden. I was giving you an example that in the United States, they say, there's been a significant decline, and now you can have an office, if there's two people working there, for example, right? It's a weakening. I mean, before that, it was forbidden at all. As far as European countries are concerned, the rules for the protection of human life, the rules for fire safety, are paramount. Unfortunately, we're in complete chaos right now. And what are we doing? We're, to be honest, taking the first step towards making European world rules in putting the non-residential fund right where people buy their own apartments and where they live, sorry, no accounting for production or office activities And what. Can I have 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u18	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u19	And also, interestingly, these things have already been counted. For example, if, well, let's think about the average family there, which is three people about to have an apartment, then the middle office, well, counted a lot of activists, it's not less than 12 people, it's four times as much as a minimum, it's without visitors. The stress on the house, and I'm already talking about the elevators, the stairs, the lighting, the energy. The key question is, what happens if the issue of evacuating people during time?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u20	We need to hear more about the evacuation. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u21	When it comes to evacuating people, defending God, when there is a dangerous situation, unfortunately our housing fund is not at all calculated, and it is only a matter of time before, unfortunately, it can come. And as I've been giving examples of both Zaporozhye and Kyiv, when this happened, unfortunately. And in a fire, the key is not fire, the key is smoke. And, excuse me, if you can sneak out of the second floor, from 39th, 40th, 25th, you won't jump in the windows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u22	Thank you. To the report. First the co-author, then the committee. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich, is invited to the report, and a committee report will follow. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u23	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I'm glad that, at last, we've come to this very important question for tens of thousands of Ukrainians, perhaps even hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians, especially in large cities. Unfortunately, we see that the session room has not yet returned from the Maldives, so, unfortunately, it is highly unlikely that this decision will be voted on today. And so I would immediately like to ask that while we still have time to discuss, all the deputies who are anywhere near the Supreme Council, that you should come and do your duty and vote for it. Why should we vote for this? And for this it is necessary to vote because today hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians are suffering, are really suffering, their living conditions are unbearable because their homes are completely uncontrollable, completely unregulated, there are hostels, hostels. The so-called hostels, by the way, because with Western European hostels, these hostels usually have very little in common. The hostels, ranging from 10 people to 100 people, now exist in residential homes and work in residential homes. The thing is, for those who may not know this problem, I'd like to take advantage of the possibility that we finally have a long procedure, a little bit more detail about it. As a senior, Kiev Mayor, 223rd District, the Shevchenkov district of Kiev for the last four years of my work as a national deputy, I have received dozens, dozens of appeals, dozens of calls from the Chinese about this problem -- a call when entire houses come to me and say: we have intolerable living conditions, because we have 2-3 floors seized this illegal hostel -- constant drunkenness, antisocial behavior, garbage, fighting, noise and nothing at all, I know it. Why? And because current legislation today, Ukrainian, has no definition of hostel as such, there is no concept of hostel in existing legislation. And if there is no idea of a hostel in existing legislation, there is no requirement for that concept, nothing can be done with these hostels. You call the police, the police come, they watch. And they say, "We rent this apartment, we rent it." The police say, "Well, yeah, private housing, there's nothing we can do about it." He turns around and goes. You call on the State Fiscal Service to pay their taxes. And the DFS also says, "And there's no hostel, there's nothing in the legislation, we can't check if they're paying or not paying, maybe it's friends who came to someone there to stay the night."and so on. I mean, there's no administration that's serious, there's no real legislation today. So, of course, you have to take at least the first step to settle this issue. Unfortunately, the first version of the bill that Mr. Herasimov first reported, I think, although he's taking a certain step forward, but he's very, very imperfect. First of all, he's imperfect in defining the concept of "host," just what I'm talking about. The definition they set out in their version will not allow law enforcement authorities, will not allow regulators to fight illegal hostels properly. Because it's so vague, it's a definition that we're essentially going to get the same problem that we have right now. It doesn't really allow this issue to be settled. In my alternative bill, we proposed, in fact, the definition that corresponds to, firstly, the practice of the developed host countries; and secondly, it has a clear legal definition and will allow the relevant regulators and law enforcement authorities to fight illegal hostels in the event of a violation of this law. And the law prescribes, in detail, because Mr. Gerasimov did not emphasize this, the law states that the use of apartments in apartment buildings, including hotels and other temporary homes (except hostels), is prohibited. Yeah? So what we're talking about is that the use of apartments in apartment buildings is not allowed at all, but in a certain situation, hostels can be used, but only if the hostel meets the definition laid down in this law. The definition of Arthur Gerasimov reads, the definition is very clear, actually. I hope the chairman will use this definition that I read from my bill. The point is that the hostels have to have specific requirements: how many people per square metre, how many rooms should there be, for example, sanvusol, which should be building standards, are prescribed that the hostel should have a separate entrance, really a separate entrance, not by accessing the general use, when the church essentially takes the approach, but only if it is a hostel in a residential building, only if it has a separate entrance, really a separate entrance, right? It is stipulated that the hostel can only exist if in the general meeting of the house the householders have allowed the hostel to open in their house, according to the relevant legislation regarding joint owners of apartment buildings. So this definition actually allows, actually returns control or not what returns, because it never existed, but gives control over its home to the residents of this house. This definition will allow them to stop any hostel fictitious if they don't want it in their house. And so it's very important to adopt this bill with this definition. Besides, I am now addressing the authors of the first law, and especially Mr. Gerasimov, the chairman. Well, the chairman, unfortunately, went somewhere, didn't he? Mr. Parobius. But I'm talking to Mrs. Oksana Siroid, if you put it to the vote now, there are other important points in this bill, which distinguishes my alternate from my primary. The point is that in the original state building standards are not mentioned, there is no mention of sanitary standards regarding the functioning of offices, not just hostels, but offices in multi-family housing. And I also suggest that there be a reference to DBN that any office in multiple apartment buildings even under this law can exist only if they are fully in line with state building standards. Actually, I personally think that the housing fund can't be on either the first or the second or the last floor, and it doesn't matter how many floors this apartment has, there can't be any offices in the housing fund, no hostels without the permission of most of the residents of this residential house. Because when someone in this room is talking about what we have to protect the economy, we have to protect the enterprise, so, of course, we have to do everything we can to make small and medium-sized businesses develop, but it doesn't have to go against, in fact, the quality of life of the people who bought their apartments, gathered these coins that barely people collect, bought their apartments, and just, sorry, want to live in them properly. They don't want crowds running past their houses every day, past their doors, 100 people up and down. They don't want the music to be played at 12 o'clock. They do not want drunkenness to happen. They do not want the crowds of office workers to stand on their eastern cells. People just want to have a decent quality of life in their personal apartments, in their private property, in their little corner, where they can hide for at least a few hours from the troubles in our country. And you can't deprive the Ukrainians, most Ukrainians of this right, because we have to allow ourselves to develop a small and medium-sized business. We need to find a balance here. And you have to understand, in fact, that it's the primary thing: whether the original right of a person to his private property in his private house, the apartment, in his private apartment, so that he can rest after a hard day's work, or whether someone will save a little bit of money on the rent of an office and create office space from the housing fund. So society, in understanding the flaws of the first bill, I certainly urge my support for my alternative bill. I've just explained why I'm convinced he's much better. But at the same time, I understand that the original bill is also a certain step forward, so if you consider even this basic, I think, even though the definition of this hostel, what is the definition of this hostel, the definition that we have set out in my bill, I would also be willing to support the first option, because it is a step, even if some step forward. What's more, it's only in the first reading that we're looking at, and anyone who has any comments can add them to the second reading. But I am now addressing all the MPs, especially the majors, before making a decision on this vote, ask yourself in your majority district and ask your voters whether any of them have suffered or are close to illegal hostels and offices. I can assure you that you will find someone in the immediate vicinity of your constituents who are constantly suffering from this. That's what's important right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u24	Thank you. And we're going to go to the questions and report on the alternative bill. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the recording. And please record for questions. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kaplan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u25	Next question. Please tell me if you want to assess the extent of the inconvenience that is possible for the elderly, our dear pensioners, our grandmothers, our grandparents, who are sometimes forced by this noise and the constant emigration of office workers and workers, to go to benches, to crash into corners and so on. They've been housed with these subsidies that can't be obtained, low just, well, low-level pensions, early wages, and here and there, the so-called office workers will come down on their heads. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u26	Thank you for asking. The question is absolutely right, the only thing I would point out is that we don't have to blame office workers, because they're also hired workers, but blame those who hire them, who create such conditions. Instead of creating normal conditions in normal office rooms, they stick their hired workers in a housing fund, which is what they're harassing, and they're mostly bullying the people who live in this housing fund. Of course, older people, I can now say from personal experience about those people who are addressing me, these are dozens of references, I stress again, my voters and collective references. This is the majority of which are really older people, because it's really this pressure of disorder in hostels, of disorderlyness to a lesser degree, but still the disorder in the office buildings that fit it really causes a colossal, not immediate discomfort, but a colossal deterioration in the quality of life for the elderly. Of course, if, please excuse me, 85 years old, 80 years old, my grandmother is forced to watch ten young people near her apartment every night, sorry, whine, yes, smoke and so forth, and she can't do anything about it, then gently speaking, it doesn't make her very easy to grow older. Yes. So no doubt.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u27	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u28	So, of course, this bill, it's directed, in particular, and to at least a little improvement in the quality of our lives with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u29	Thank you. And the next question from the People’s Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u30	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleague, first of all, I want to thank you for your initiative. We've worked hard on this. By the way, I also have a lot of harpsichords who come up with this question when in residential homes, on the first floor, there are usually barbershops, bakerys, cafes, restaurants, and so forth, where working businesses are not actually able to survive. We offered it in our proposal, in our bill, so that only with the consent of all the residents could it be accommodated. Sadly, I saw in one of the bills that they wanted to restrict only those buildings with 16 floors. I don't think it makes any sense. Because what's wrong with those citizens who live in five floors or nine floors? I want to know what you're thinking, is it appropriate to have a floor limit on what we're talking about right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u31	Thank you. Well, you have a few questions. First of all, I absolutely support, not that I support, that's my constant initiative, and I keep telling her that any activity that's appropriate in housing should happen with the permission of most of the residents of this house, it's a perfectly logical practice of the developed countries. Unfortunately, we don't use it. And that, in principle, if that were the case, all the other questions, they would fall away on their own. Because people wouldn't give permission to what they don't want, right? In this context, when you ask about the 16 floors, the bill that Mr. Gerasim and other deputies have submitted is referred to 16 floors when it comes to offices. When it comes to hostels, this applies to houses independent of their surfaces. I mean, as for hostels, it's pretty clear about all the houses. I agree that as for offices, too, the issue should apply to houses independent of their surfaces, of course. And that's also my proposition. It's just that, as I understand it, the question was in their bill to find some consensus in the room, because, as I understand it, there are a lot of MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u32	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u33	There are many deputies in the hall, perhaps because of some personal, such as entrepreneurial motives or some other related issues, who are very concerned that there will be a significant restriction on office workers in the houses, and so they put this limit on 16 floors, 16 floors, and above if. I'm going to try to change that before the second reading. But I would point out that if this is about hostels, then hostels -- it's about any house, regardless of the surface. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u34	Thank you. Thank you, co-reporter. And we invite you to report to the Vice-President of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing of People's Deputy Andrija Šinkovic with the position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u35	Thank you very much. Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Construction, Construction and Housing, at its meeting on 18 December 2018, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian RSR Housing Code and other legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the protection of the rights of owners (users) of housing (registration number 6424-d), introduced by the People's Deputies of Andriyevsky, Gerasimov, Levchenk, Shinkovič, Babak, Kodola and others, and the alternative draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian RSR Housing Code, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Levchenk. I'll tell you, obviously, this case can be marked as a definite one, because when the author introduces an alternative bill into his own project, it's already, let's say, it's of some interest. But a constructive, completely constructive committee meeting was defined in the bill as an alternative to the definition of "hospital," which unfortunately does not exist in our legislation today. And here Mr. Yuri Lewchenko is adding to the general picture. So, paying attention to each bill separately, because the authors reported very carefully and had the opportunity to report on the question, the committee decided to recommend to you, your peers, that, as a result of the first reading, a bill should be adopted on the basis of number 6424-d and, in addition to the second reading, take into account the individual positions of the alternative bill 6424-d. Mr. Yuri, we've just identified certain positions because, apart from hostels, you have a lot of rationalities. We're going to work out a bill with you and then we're going to put it out as a second reading. Please, colleagues, support in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u36	Thank you. Stay. Also, please remain in a place for questions. I would like you to sign up for a question to the co-conspirator. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Kiskar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u37	Eutushka Sergio, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u38	Please, the national deputy of Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u39	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland. Thank you, Mr. Paul. But I have a question for the reporter. Since we have already understood from the first draft, which Mr. Gerasimov reported that there is no concept of building standards, there is no definition of what a hostel is, but it appears in the law of Lechchenka that you will introduce these concepts into the first bill. This is one moment. And the second moment. Please tell me, will such definitions and such a bill allow us to remove the work of so - called hostels from the shadow sector, since we understand that they do not have tourists today, but other people? And this is where Yuri Lewchenko said a lot about the fact that there's actually a lot of references when residents of the residential multi-family pay attention to anti-sanitary and other things. Can you get the bill out of the shadow sector for hostels? Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u40	Thank you. Well, about the first part of your question about DBNN. Yeah, there's a norm, maybe there's different BBWes, so let's say, the size of the hostel. But objectively, if there are 50 people living on the 9th floor of a multi-story building in a nearby apartment 60 square meters, it doesn't matter what the building was built with, yes, what the standards and standards are. This is really a total disqualification for the residents of the house. But as for the operation of this law after its adoption. We're giving you a tool. There are appropriate services that, with a tool, have a clear record of what a hostel is and on which floors it can be maintained. I mean, we as the Supreme Council give a tool, and the appropriate services will be. We have the opportunity, an honourable colleague, as a control function, of course to control the execution of the act, the execution of this bill. But for this there are appropriate services, it's not exactly our function. It will be self-sufficient and even today in the first reading with the addition of the hostel to really clearly distinguish the hostel from the hostel.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u41	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u42	Thank you. Once again, it's a very topical subject. I want to warn you right now, we're going to make our proposals. The first is to clean up the issue of superficiality. We feel that despite being superficial, we need to look at all the residents of housing in the same way. Everyone has the right to be comfortable and calm in their homes. And I also want to point out that there are some observations from the science department. We're gonna have to work on that. And unfortunately, if we compare with other problems that citizens face in housing, we need to work with the National Police, so I understand that it will form administrative protocols, in order for them to take seriously the complaints that residents will make. And yet, what we're going to insist on is that, in any case, a second-reading bill will be made mandatory to get the consent of the residents to have them in housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u43	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u44	To make sure that they have catering facilities, offices, hostels, and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u45	Thank you, Your Honor. We'll all have the opportunity to work on the second reading. I absolutely agree with you that the opinion of the inhabitants should be present, but a legislative instrument should be given. You've already talked to the previous reporter, really, there's a barbershop on the first floor and all the other commercial facilities that are, by the way, useful, including for residents, so you have to find a gold middle actually. But if we accept it today and, God willing, that we accept it by looking in the audience, there really is an object that can be worked out and made perfect, that we give this tool, not only on the side of the residents, we are on the side and entrepreneurs, but there should be sound rules for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u46	Thank you. And final question, please, National Deputy Kugel. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u47	Thank you. Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. First of all, what's in this law is that for the first time we're paying attention to what we're already doing, making money, not paying taxes, and we can't get in line with the fact that our apartment buildings have become practically mixed offices: horses, people and everything. The only goal, in my view, that will help us to carry out this task is to continue and understand the owners. If we actually own our own house, for example, if we open a psychologist's office or everyone realizes that there are no hundreds of thousands of people there, that it's a peaceful business, they calmly give consent, because this person pays taxes and conveniently they share the burden with them. We have a problem when we gave restaurants the right to open only when they agree with the tenants, I can say that everyone who opened the restaurants put all the new windows in these houses. I mean, people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u48	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u49	People have found a way to make a deal. And that's why I think we should give people the right to open up, and if business wants to open up, they'll find conditions that they can support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u50	Thank you. All I can do is agree with Mrs. Alexander, which is really the priority of the owner's right, which has priority, and we'll take that into account when we work on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u51	Thank you. And thank you, Your Honor. And we're moving on to the discussion. I invite you to speak now to the head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, there will be factions from the factions, then from the deputies. But I'm going to propose a minimum amount of time from the deputies, because look at the agenda. Colleagues, after that, we have an important question about the vacation of theatre workers, and the important law of Silantiev, 6487. And we, when we're in full procedure, and we're considering one law after lunch, it's too little to answer those questions that come from the national deputies, from the committees, from the factions. So, fellows, I'm going to ask everyone, to speak as briefly as possible from factions and from deputies, for six minutes, so that we can get there and have a chance to consider at least one or two more laws that stand after that. And one more thing is very important. Colleagues, this law has already been seen in questions, everyone supports factions, it's important just full concentration in the hall. Therefore, I ask all the heads of the factions of finesse, and we hope that we will be able to unite and adopt this law. Please record the factions for the performance. Opposition Block, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u53	"The Opposition Platform for Life," "The Opposition Block." Dear colleagues, what has now been brought to the attention of the Supreme Council really deserves attention. At the same time, I would like us to watch through the prism the holy saints' right to own citizens. Because we're talking about rights and we're saying that they end up there, absolute rights, where the rights of others, of others, are being violated. And that's why you have to go to the interval that allows you to limit the owner's right to what's stated in this law, it doesn't give any mechanisms, no one can, just look: they're already talking about hotels, they're already talking about offices. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll tell you, as of today, multi-story buildings are already planned with offices on the first and second floors, they're already planned with food, restaurants and slot machines. You can imagine that the adoption of this law is going to follow it. To this day, we must always come out of what is dictated. What dictates this problem is the problem of living with people, order of employment. That's the demand. It's a demand, and it's a market. In the market, every owner comes out with a desire to give up better, to give up more. And the demand comes from the citizens. And imagine, take today the Kiev: up to 10 million people live. One out of four Ukrainians lives in Kiev, and he wants a roof over his head. So we're going to introduce this to the poor people if there's a rule that there's at least 8 meters for every hire or hire. It's going to be a dead-born norm. Why are we here to disrupt the nervous system and why is this one? To have a chat. It won't do any good. And we will be witnesses that the law will not work in this part. And second, dear colleagues, when we talk about how we can set up housing for rent, let's get out of what is property for housing, regardless of whether it's furniture, floors, multi-story and so on. A unified standard is needed to control all owners who give up their apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u54	Please, Kodola Alexander Mikhailovich of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u55	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Dear colleagues, it's really a very serious problem, and we're looking at some very important bills right now. As a substitute for the head of the profile committee, I want to point out that I get a lot of references from the Chinese, from the people of the big cities, that along with their apartments, they, of course, have to live next door to offices, hostels, massage parlors and other facilities that have actually been illegally furnished from simple apartments, and this creates an extra burden on communication, on the issue of fire safety, on the issue of physical safety -- all of this needs to be regulated. Unfortunately, today we are living with you under the Civil Code of the Soviet Union of 83, and today these laws are clearly not going to solve all the problems that people in multi-story buildings face, but these are the first steps that need to be adopted today. So I urge the session room to vote and support our main Act No.6424-d is the bill of our committee of profile, which will allow us to take the first steps to solve this important problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u56	From the Self-Help faction, Wojcietsky Victoria Mikhailovna. Babak Alona, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u57	Alona Babak, Self Help Union. "The Self-Help Union" clearly supports the proposals made by National Deputy Arthur Gerasimov, who were also prepared in conjunction with the people. With the Supreme Council Committee profiled, the LHK, according to the order in multi-family residential buildings on rent, not by profile, i.e. renting the apartment itself, but renting housing for commercial activities, according to the order in which hostels are located in multi-family homes. And today, the Self-Help Union will certainly support this bill in the first reading in order for all the national MPs to prepare proposals for this paper, we had the opportunity on the committee to discuss them and get to second reading with a harmonized, balanced position from all regions of Ukraine, and to take into account the thoughts of both small business and people living in multi-family homes. For a standard of 8 square meters. This is an active standard for dormitories. Why did it appear in this bill? Because, dear colleagues, there is no idea of hostels in Ukrainian legislation today, but hostels are. In what way do they function in apartment buildings? It's just renting a place. And we see a situation, so take the street of the city of Kiev. The hostel on the top floor of a multi-room historic building, 200 square meters. Do you know how many people are loaded into this room? 60, 60 people who run up stairs together using an elevator and ride on the last floor. If we don't point out that there might be a rent limit, this place won't be refurnished into a hostel, it'll still be "rental rental," and they'll continue to rent this place an apartment for 60 people in that room. Dear colleagues, if we don't settle the issue of renting housing, and we don't set any parameters, but I totally agree with a colleague who just said that we don't have any controls, let's think about what we can do civilized to make sure that those who want to bypass legislation who want to continue creating hostels called "rent (or hire)" continue to abuse their neighbors. Let's find civilized norms, prepare them for second reading and make a balanced law. But the order in the apartment buildings should be directed. And we will certainly take this first step and support the draft law in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u58	Thank you. From Rebirth, Valery Pisarenko. Please, Mr. Valérie.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u59	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. This question is no longer the first day under discussion and is being developed. I would like to say that I was concerned with this issue after I received the reception of the harkovians Moisienko Love Ivanovna, who lives on the prospect of Ludwig Liberty, and Polosuhin Oleg Vladislavovich, who lives on the prospect of Independence. It is as if people live in various cities in our city, but with one problem. On the first floor there are cafes, cafes, barber shops, bakery. And you know, don't let God see how people have to live when they're making bread on the 1st floor, they're burning fish, they're dancing, they're yelling, and people can't live a normal life at all. Of course we're going to support this bill, it's part of the initiatives we've registered. Regrettably, there are certain limitations against which we will take our stand. This is, of course, superficiality. We don't understand why people who live in five-story buildings should be different from people who live in houses where there are more than 16 floors. And if you look around the country, we have houses that have more than 16 floors, probably have tens, hundreds, here, and those that have 5-9 floors, are going to have tens of thousands. So we should think of all the Ukrainians who have faced this problem today. In fact, the problem is deeper, because we don't respect the law. I think today we could look at what's going on, and the National Police, the courts could react. But in doing so, this law will be a tool that will help. But after that, the daily work with the National Police, the daily work of the people involved, and the local authorities, should normalize the problems that exist. You and I shouldn't be populists. Indeed, tens of thousands and perhaps hundreds of thousands of small - size entrepreneurs have already placed their businesses in residential homes. And we really need to set up a mechanism that will allow first of all to protect citizens who have apartments in multiple apartments and second of all to think about how not to destroy small and medium-sized businesses. In doing so, of course, it is overwhelming to understand that businesses should be and can be housed only if there is the consent of all the occupants of the house. And only in this case will they understand whether they need offices, hostels or what you're talking about in this lobby. Therefore, the first reading should support the bill. After that, we need to work hard on it to find the gold inside and protect the rights of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u60	Thank you. And from Peter Dustenka's Block, Ishchenko is handing over Pinzenic. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, the draft law that we are looking at is no longer in the first place, provides for a ban on the placement of offices in apartment buildings. Does such a position have the right to exist? Of course he does. I'm not going to say right now whether she's right or wrong. But if we're proposing certain rules of regulation, they should apply to all citizens, all of them. In this case, we have an example of the selectivity of the approach. It's forbidden by one, but if you're renting your own apartment, or if you're renting a person's office, you can not only have an office, you can do a complex, because there's not even a ban on farming. What is the difference between the office, the nine - story building, and the sixteen - story building? In a nine - story building, please do so. On the 16th floor, you can't do that. What difference does it make? We're talking about the same legal relationship. You have no right to be placed under an office in a 15-story building, and on the 16th floor is possible. Why is it possible on the 16th and impossible on the 15th? And maybe most importantly, this market is in the shade. The small segment of this market is legal. The result of this law will be that the entire lease market will go dark. So tell me, please, how do you imagine that tomorrow someone put a room in the office, you're going to check it out, in order to get into the apartment, you need a court order. And the only consequence of that, the adoption of this law is that this whole market is going to go dark. I urge my colleagues to abstain from voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u62	Thank you. So the factions of the factions are finished. Now, speak to the national MPs. Nine minutes. I ask you to hold a record of the people's deputies who intend to take part in the discussion. Please. The first performance is Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u63	This problem is actually deeper than it is deeper. I'd like to touch one of those, well, not noticeable at first sight, but a very important subject and aspect. In the context of this question, we're going to talk about supporting small and medium-sized businesses. Small and medium-sized businesses, dear friends, don't need permission to place offices on the 1st, 2nd, 15th or 16th floor or prohibit such a location. Rather, support small and medium - sized businesses with cheap loans. Make up the money that you finance the political parties that have factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, factions, only a sixth of the deputies who are now present and will vote in favour of this important law, which is about 600 to 700 million dollars per year. I think this money would build up in every big city, small towns and districts a lot of startups, private clothing companies, selling stuff and so on, and new jobs would be created. Do better to support small and medium-sized businesses than the money you have been dispossessed by manipulations and falsifications of the government budget for the funk fools, senseless, meaningless, inefficient development programs that just happened. You'll only think about it last year, and in this you've continued funding so-called leadership programs for almost 200 million dollars for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. What kind of leadership? Give this money to small, small businesses. Third. Finally, give small and medium-sized businesses the tax vacations that you promise from election to election, and then you pick up three skins from small businesses and translate all the tax burden plus you administer it by breaking through the knee of ordinary Ukrainian start-ups, destroying the middle class and even the mid-class seedlings. In the end, leave small business in peace with administrative resources, engaging in all kinds of electoral campaigns and all kinds of pressure to continue putting your ass in the seat of the deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the city's head and so on. There is another very important aspect: the peace and comfort of the citizens who have bought or received it in the Soviet Union, and 80 percent of it, the housing they live in and pass it on to their families. We have to take care of both property rights and the harmonious conditions for the lives of both the elderly and the young. And that's the whole global problem. You can continue to develop it to the state in which it is. In which is transport, especially utilities in our cities, these graves and barks, where ordinary people travel. And you will do the same with the driveways and the houses. So my position is as follows: either we vote in full contrast to this bill, or look for another model that saves ordinary people the constitutional rights of ordinary people, and that allows them to live more human lives, not to endure constant pressure and decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u64	Thank you. Stashuk Vitaly Filimonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u65	Vitaly Stasuk, Darnica, city of Kiev Honorable colleagues, an extremely important issue in these bills, is especially important for the inhabitants of large cities and for the inhabitants of multistory buildings. The Chinese especially experience a lot of problems from the fact that they often have rooms that are sometimes called hostels, and in fact there are some unorganized and unregulated processes. So these projects are clearly to be considered and approved by us. The only thing I want to ask everyone here. In fact, I think we had an interesting and correct discussion on the committee when we had a team of authors who were preparing this project together with the committee, and we were talking to the author of an alternative bill, colleague Lewchenk, and we were planning that we would be able to bring these projects together. Because each one of them has both important, right things, and could complement each other substantially, could be complemented substantially. The same thing, for example, refers to the question of what a hostel is, what an office is. These are extremely important things without which these bills will not be perfect. But it's going to be a lot worse if we just talk and fail these bills. So I urge everyone to support both bills, to vote first, of course, for the committee, but we can also support Yuri Lewchenk's project. At the same time, we have to come up with a coherent joint project that will address this issue and allow people in multi-family homes to finally get order in their homes, while leaving an opportunity for entrepreneurs who develop hotel businesses to use such a form of entrepreneurial activity, of course, as a hostel, but for the benefit of people, not to the detriment of them. Thank you. Please support the decision. It's important that we don't fail this project today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u66	Thank you. Melnik Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out how the former city head, that these issues were previously clearly settled and any such changes, in accordance with the applicable rules, were made to the decision-making process, were necessarily agreed by the adjacent users, and at least more than 50 percent, if this is OSB or some other local government body. What is proposed today? I don’t mind that the first reading needs to be accepted because there is a problem. But the whole point of the bill today is not to use it. Today, thousands of small private businesses are registered at the location, indicating the address of an apartment, the so - called office. This also needs to be settled. So today, tools and mechanisms need to be clearly written out, not simply that tomorrow the police come in and make a protocol for administrative responsibility. Who will determine whether it is for appointment or not? If we think that decision-making is a lot, let's do other mechanisms, according to the standards that will regulate and open it. Because earlier, for example, if it's a shop or a coffee shop or some cafeteria in the Mesquikoncom, they set up a work regime, because many complaints today about keeping quiet after 22 hours. So I think that the changes that were adopted, they canceled the old mechanisms, they didn't create new ones, we created a problem, and today we're talking about how heroically we're going to solve it. But I am. Yes, it has to be decided, but not that way. We need to create their execution mechanism, not their control tools. We will not put a policeman at every door to control whether he is assigned or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u68	Thank you. There's still a minute. And I'm giving you a minute to perform. Wife of Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I urge everyone to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u70	Thank you. So, colleagues, now I'm going to give the closing statement, but in three or four minutes we're going to move on to making a decision, colleague. So I'm addressing the factions' heads to invite all the people's deputies into the hall, and in three or four minutes, we're going to move on to the decision-making process. During the closing session, I ask the authors to give us a model that would unite the entire hall. Here, Arthur pointed out that voting with the amendment of part of the law of Lechchenk to make this clear in the speeches. That's why I'm asking for the first before the final word of Lehchenko. Is that enough for a minute? A minute? That's enough. Yuri Lewchenko is a minute. Please. To prepare is Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u71	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I'd like to use this moment to try to reach out to those adequate MPs who made some remarks and explain to them that their comments just don't fit the bill. This bill is not going to bring down the whole rent in the shadows or anything, there's not going to be some huge inkling of the market, it's not going to happen. Moreover, this standard of 8 square meters, if you want it to be removed for second reading at all, because by large it will be possible to stop the illegal activity of hostels without it, yes. This bill does not apply to the total destruction of the offices of real workers and so forth. There's nothing in this bill. The bill proposes, first of all, to regulate the use of the housing fund in such a way that most of the residents of the apartment in question live in good quality do not suffer daily in their own home from their illegal neighbors. That's what this bill is about. So please, at least in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u72	Thank you. I'll give it to Arthur. Colleagues, now will be the final word of the co-author of the bill, which was supported by the committee, and then by the vote. Once again, I urge everyone to come to the hall. I ask both the heads of the factions and the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that we are moving on to a decision-making process. Please, everyone, please come into the hall. Please, Arthur Gerasimov. I'll turn it on in two minutes, but you'll be all right. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u73	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The discussion showed that the problem is really serious, that there is a problem and that it needs to be solved. The discussion also showed that many national MPs actually have comments about the bill, but they are no longer strategic and can actually be counted as second reading. Therefore, respectable colleagues, the request to unite and support this bill, based on the identification of the hostel that I read under the transcript of the alternative bill 6424-1. And also taking into account the issue of DBNI, which was broadcast under the transcript by Yuri Lewchenk. Dear colleagues, please support the bill. Indeed, so many people in many apartment buildings are waiting for us to do so. And I would also like to say that I support co-authors and alternatives, and this bill is that there's no way that business is going to touch this. And I also invite everyone who cares about this question to take these things into account in the second reading. And we will really discuss them and, if necessary, incorporate them into the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u74	Thank you. From the committee is there a need in the closing word? It doesn't, does it? So, colleagues, we're done here, and we can move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. And, colleagues, I ask of the bed and the government and the guests to return to the hall. Colleagues! Colleagues, I'm asking you from bed to return to the hall. I don't want to speak by name. Both of you, go back to the hall, go back to your family. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. And I want to emphasize: the first point: we only vote as a basis; we can include all of the suggestions that were made in the second reading. The second point is that I will put to the vote the bill proposed by the committee, but with the amendment that Arthur Gerasimov gave us to include Lechchenk's proposal on the first reading. We have a chance and a chance to unite around this bill and take all the proposals into account. So please, everyone, prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Housing Code of the Ukrainian RSR and other Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of owners (users) of houses of residence (No.6424-d) with an amendment that Arthur Gerasimov has written under the transcript. That is, with the inclusion of part of the law of Lehchenka in the body of this law, particularly with regard to churches, on the basis, as recommended by the committee, on the basis. Colleagues, please support everyone, please vote on an important social bill and, I'm sure, we'll be able to work on it by the second reading. Please vote and please support everyone. Vote, colleagues, support, vote. [[17:18:00]] For 177 Let me put it back once, if it doesn't, the law will be repealed. According to factions: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 79, "National Front" – 52, "Block of Opposition" – 5, "Help" – 7, Radical Party – 6, "Fathership" – 3, "Will of the People" – 2, "Party of Rebirth" – 5. Colleagues, that's just the basis. I don't understand why this is happening. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I see there's a lot more people. Some factions vote in half and half, some factions don't vote in half. Colleagues, that's just the basis. Let me put it back once. Maybe we can rethink the position. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 6424-d. Please vote for the return. Please vote, please support. We're voting for the return. [[17:19:09]] For 181 Not enough voices. I have to make an alternative, and then I have to make all the suggestions. I'm voting on draft Law 6424-1 is an alternative. Whoever supports it, please vote. Let's maybe support him in the hall. Please support 6424-1. Vote. [[17:19:46]] For-151 The decision is not taken. The next suggestion is to send both bills to the committee for further elaboration. Let us work together on this: both bills are sent to the committee for further work. This may be a proposal that unites all. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm asked by one of the drafters to put the bill to a vote without offices, that's a little bit of a, uh, offer, let's say. I mean, colleagues, I'm making another suggestion before we go to the vote, to the committee. To support this bill and to remove all mentions of offices so that it only applies to hostels. So I'm betting on a 6424-d vote to remove all office references, with only the hostels left. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, vote. [[17:21:52]] For 180. It's the same painting. Colleagues, let's get back to the committee, it's supposed to bring the whole room together. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to vote and I'm putting a motion to put both of these bills back on the committee for re-reading, for re-reading. Please vote, please support, vote, please support. [[17:22:28]] For 177 Not supported. So both of these bills are 6424-d and 6424-1 are rejected. Now we have a statement from two factions to announce the break -- the factions of the People's Front and the Peter Poroshenko Block. They're ready to switch to a break from the rostrum. And I'd like to invite you to the address of Sergey the High. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u75	Thank you, Mr. Head. My colleagues, we have a rather strange situation. As you know, before New Year's, there was a regulation on the interim commission of inquiry on Russia's influence on the President's election. The decree was registered, and according to the Rules it was given time for the factions to submit their personal proposals to the committee. At the moment, the desire to explore the influences, including Mr. Medvedchuk, yes, such godfather Putin, for the run of the Ukrainian elections, has volunteered for Ukrainian politics, except for the faction of the People's Front, another faction called Self-Help. I thank them so much for that. Other factions have shown passivity. You know, we can pass a lot of laws under the word that it's very patriotic, it's very necessary at the moment, but when the Ukrainian Parliament and factions, even coalitions, don't want to consider the issue of Russian influence on Ukrainian elections and Ukrainian politics when we silence Medvedchuk's issue and its impact on future elections and maybe on future power configuration, because we all understand that in the next Parliament there might even be a faction at the hands of this gentleman, yes. When we are. It's been the third month since we voted in favour of the motions for sanctions against NewsOne and 112 channels, and somehow the MPO is not gathering and somehow the President still does not approve this decision, yes. We've got a bunch of questions. You know, I'm watching TV and, for example, I see Maxim Burbak speaking this morning, and on 112 he starts talking about Medvedchuk, he starts talking about TSK, and on 112 he gets interrupted. What if it's not censorship? We can see that if. And on NewsOne, I'm told, on NewsOne. We see that back on the air of NewsOne Mr. Pichovsek, who, when I was a young student, a young man in 2004, went to the Orange Course, and his name was already synonymous with lies and manipulations. So I have a question: is it really the Ukrainian politician, is it really the coalition, does the President's Administration really want to fight the influence of the Russians on our policies? Is there some kind of warming going on there? So, colleagues, I call on all factions without exception: the opposition of the democratic or coalition to submit their proposals to the TSC to investigate the influence of Russia and Mr. Medvedchuk on our policy. Let's get together and let's have Parliament set up a agenda for Russia's involvement in the elections. Come on, the question is out of date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u76	Thank you. So, colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I would like to inform you that the next draft of the Law on Moratorium is to change the purpose of the assignment of land for the purpose of preserving physical and sports objects. But the author of the bill asked him to move it. Let me put it to a rating vote, or it has support, because I know all the factions support it. If there are no votes, we will listen to the author and move him. So I'd like everyone to get ready. I am voting on the draft Moratorium Act to change the target destination of land for the purpose of preserving physical and sports objects (6487). Please vote and please support. Vote. This is a rating vote, we're not in the question yet. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:26:53]] For-143 142. We'll listen to the author's position and pass on the bill. And we're moving on, colleagues, the next one is the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award Decision of the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and scientific and technical development for 2018. I'm sure the whole room supports this decision. Come on, colleagues, we've got half an hour left, let's keep the procedure short, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to support draft Decree 9410, and I'm asking you to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, keep the band together, otherwise we won't be able to look at it. [[17:27:43]] For 132 Why don't you support it? Colleagues, everybody's ready, right? Everybody backing up? Self-help, Fatherland, everyone backs up. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it again. And please come into the hall and support the proposal to review the draft decree for a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. We're voting for a reduced procedure. [[17:28:23]] For-142 Colleagues, 142, we're just not going to be able to look at it. Please return to your coworkers who are in your beds, but we simply will not be able to consider this determination. It's a simple organization of work. Half an hour. Full procedure takes an hour. Please take all your jobs and support them. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support the proposal for a proposal for a draft Decision on the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the most talented young scientists (9410), a review of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please support me. Vote. [[17:29:19]] For-149 One. One voice. Colleagues, one vote, failed to vote, and the card didn't work. Colleagues, take up positions during the vote. Colleagues, carefully, one voice. I'm asking you to vote and I'm asking you to support me. Vote for summary procedure 9410. Please vote, please support. Vote. We're backing it up. Colleagues, we vote carefully. [[17:30:06]] For-153 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected young scientists, we usually have very weak voices when we consider such questions. I told the Conciliation Council today that these bills should be regarded as urgent, especially in the context of the total migration of our young people. The Committee on Science and Education conducted an appropriate study, 56 papers were submitted, 77 scientists from 16 areas of Ukraine and Kiev. All necessary procedures were in place to ensure transparency. And as a result of the work of the expert group, and after that, the vote of the committee, the appropriate decision was made to award 20 prizes for the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and scientific and technical development in size, listen, 20,000 bracelets per year. 20 grand premiums are 400,000 dollars that you and I have put in the state budget of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we should not just support this decision at all, but support the decision to increase such bonuses because, unfortunately, it is so complex that the grants given by our foreign colleagues at 3, at 4, at 5, are 10 times higher than those awarded by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking and asking all of you to consolidate, to invite those who are now outside the dome of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to come and vote and show our young people who are still here in Ukraine and who are expecting us to vote in favour of adequate funding and fight for Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u78	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm going to make a recording. Now I see some of the deputies coming out of the hall. I am now personally addressing all the heads of factions -- it is my duty to provide Ukrainian national deputies in the workplace. And so I ask everyone to return to the hall, not to go outside, to invite everyone into the hall, and to participate in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All national deputies should be in the workplace. And I ask the heads of factions until the moment of the vote to ensure the presence of all the deputies in the hall. Now I'm asking you to do a two-in-a-row, two-in-the-face. Babak Olena Valerievna, from the Self-Help faction. Romantic, isn't it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u79	Colleagues, really, we're going to support Self-Help will support this award decision. And we see that the increase in premiums to 20,000 dollars, that's something. And we're very sorry that not all the deputies are in the Supreme Council Hall right now. And most of those who say very loudly right now that education and science are above all, they're not there right now. So once again, we say that every national MP is responsible for his own speeches if he so claims to be present in the hall when, for our real gifted children, for gifted young people, such financial, well, motivations are voted on. I also wanted to emphasize, perhaps you do not know this, but the World Health Organization has published a report in the last year, where Ukraine takes precedence over the causes of death from drug abuse. I mean, first place in the world. What does that say? That we sometimes have a problem of mortality, not even in the medical field, but in the education and training levels, including stimulating young people to learn. So I'm asking a lot of questions, and the Self-Help Unit is calling for support for young people, science, education not by words, not by slogans, not by slogans, but by really proposing strategies for the output of Ukrainian science from the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u80	Thank you. From the People's Front, the Teras Cremen. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u81	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a traditional decision that we should honor, though modestly at the expense of our young scientists. Look, please look very carefully at the list of our young talents -- five doctors of science -- these are over half a hundred candidates of science, part of the defenseless. And I really want to believe that our collective parliamentary support will encourage them to defend their scientific research as early as this new year 2019. And despite the creation of the National Agency for Quality Education, I believe that by the simplified procedure proposed by Minister Lilia Greenevich, you will be able to support our young talents by continuing their scientific fundamental studies. This year can also become a breakthrough for the development of education and science in Ukraine as a whole. These are billions of funds allocated to the acquisition of equipment in our higher education institutions. It's a shared access to material and technical security. This is, thirdly, an increase in wages that we should definitely vote with you. This year can also become a priority for the development of Ukrainian Antarctic research. So the fact that you and I have made changes to the State Budget for 2019 tells us that we also support young science. And the fifth, which is very important. We need to systematically address the issue of the collective support of our young people. Because it's not just nominal scholarships, it's housing for young scientists, it's also creating new jobs, it's supporting the development of technological and industrial parks, it's social assistance, it's the rehabilitation of military personnel, it's medical education -- it's all that gives us the opportunity to advance the development of our Ukrainian state. Please support this document as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u82	Thank you. From "The Rebirth Party" Kisse Anton Ivanovich is handing over Pisarenko Valeria. Please, Mr. Valérie.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u83	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. It is really good that Parliament is concerned about such matters. The only thing I would want our budget for such awards to be more, yes, to be more concerned with young and young scientists. We also need to take this problem seriously. Because if we look at what is happening today in science and education, we have a big problem. The big problem is that the professions that will be needed tomorrow to make our country stronger and the economy stronger, we're not actually preparing specialists for them today. The continuation of higher education and the transition to postgraduate, and the continuation of scientific careers in the country today, is not prestigious at all. Although our Westerns, for example, partners and all the countries in the world today are putting the most money into science to make innovation and innovation today a breakthrough in our economy. So it's very important for us to finance and channel funds today, not as we do -- to the police, to the prosecutor's office, where billions of budgets are being increased and support funds are being channelled, in fact, sometimes very unnecessary things, and then we're actually funding a raid against business, but we're funding scientific inventions that would ensure economic development, where breakthrough development where the extra cost of Ukrainian product could become greater. And we wouldn't hear stories about hyperloops from individual cabinet officials, and we would really have our own work and work. I hope everyone supports today's Grants of Fellowships to talented people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u84	Thank you. And, colleagues, noting the importance of this law, I would like to stress that in five minutes there will be a vote. Look who's not around, call from the towers in the hall so we can go to a successful vote. And Mr. Valeria, both to you, and to everyone else: to concentrate and assemble as many people as possible in the hall. From "Peter Prashenko's Block" spores John, then from "The Fatherland" Yvchenko, a colleague. And these will be the closing remarks. Then there's the vote. Please, Spores Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u85	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, maybe 20,000 -- maybe 20,000 -- is just a small amount of money, but at the same time, there's some kind of desire for young scientists. We have to do everything today so that these young scientists will stay in Ukraine and yearn for it. And that's not the only question. Questions Young People Ask — Answers That Work, for example, in the development of parliamentaryism. We also have to install these prizes and we have to get to that question, because we are also putting off and it's unclear why. So I would very much like us to unite the entire room right now, so that everyone can vote, we see that all the factions are in favour. And so let's not take the time, because we all have to support our young scientists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u86	Thank you very much. Colleagues, this is a closing statement from the faction from Fatherland. In two or three minutes, we move on to the decision-making process. And I'm asking you, it's a signal for everyone to go into the hall that's either in the towers or in the dining room, go into the hall, get ready to vote. Two minutes Ivchenko, Fatherland. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u87	Thank you. Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, "The Fatherland" clearly supports the draft Decision on the award of the Supreme Council Award to the most talented young scientists. But what I'm trying to say is that it's not enough. This is not enough, since there should be systemic programs that operate in many countries of the European Union. For example, in Poland there was a program called Stay With Us, where there were two financial institutions under the Minosvets, one of which was directly funded by fundamental research, another institution financed applied research. And 50 percent went to finance young scientists under the age of 35. In the United States, for example, scientists were given leave when. A paid vacation, when they were able to travel to other countries, see how science developed there, what technology was just to be competitive. Timoshenko offered special programs for young people in her new course so that they would not leave our country. Directly, it's encouraging entrepreneurs to take young people to work. The other one. This is, of course, microcredit, of course, scholarship reform, microcredit, and, of course, it's affordable housing for young people, for those people, including those who will return to rural areas, cheap loans are almost non-percentile or with a minimum interest rate. So of course we support it, it's in our program and in our program, it's in the new course of Julia Timoshenko. And today, once again, small steps are taken by the Supreme Council, but enough is needed today by our young scientists, who now exist and survive in modern realities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m1.u88	Thank you. I agree with you. These are obviously insufficient steps, obviously needing more, but these are concrete and real steps. In the program of every political force, every presidential candidate has a big chapter on support for young people. But it is better to be here in the hall when making those decisions and concrete actions to support them, colleagues. So I'm very convincingly asking everyone to come into the hall. I'm asking you all to come to the hall. We have concluded our discussion, and we are moving on to making a decision. I, colleagues, would you look who's gone? I'm asking the secretariat to invite the deputies into the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. And I'm asking you to come back from the government beds, too, because if you don't make it, you have to vote, it doesn't add any respect to Parliament either. Please enter the hall, prepare the cards in place, at battle stations. And I'm sure we'll all be united around this decision and around the next one, which is actually a sequel. And if we unite, we can take one and then the next. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Everyone please be in the workplace. And I'm putting to the vote the draft Decision on the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Supreme Award to the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and scientific and technological development for 2018. The committee also offers a foundation. We support young scientists, we support Ukrainian science, we vote for it, and we vote for it. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. It's settled, it's responsible, it's a vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[17:45:19]] For-195 All the factions are backing up. Not all of them have made it. I can see we didn't make it. Colleagues, I'll put you on the way back. Don't leave the hall. It's not fair. It's unfair. Colleagues, please call whoever you can, national MPs. I'll read the factions and put them on return. So, according to the factions of the Peter Prashenko Block, 66, the People's Front, 53, the Opposition Block, 9, Self-Help, 16, Oleg Ljashka Radical Party 9, Parenthood 7, Will of the People, 2, Rebirth Party 8, non-fractional, 25. Colleagues, take your jobs. I'll be back in a minute. Look who's not around, call the hall. Please be in the workplace during the vote. So please prepare for the vote. And I'm proposing to go back to the draft Decision on the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the most talented young scientists (9410). Please vote and please support. Colleagues, each voice, carefully and responsibly, vote for the return. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Don't leave the hall, colleague. Why? Okay, okay. Please vote, please support, please support the return. [[17:47:13]] For 203 Dynamics positive, colleagues. I'm going to put 203 again. But a national MP has just left the hall. So, colleagues, please mobilize. Please, let's go in, take jobs. Please mobilize. Yes, everyone in the workplace. I once again propose to vote that we go back to the draft Order on the Award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and scientific and technical development for 2018 (No. 9410). Please vote and please support. Vote! Vote, fellows! Take part in the vote. Please vote and support. [[17:48:26]] For 210 But, colleagues, now I'm going to put a closing act in place. If there are no votes, the decision will be rejected. I'm saying, colleagues, I'm going to publicly announce who didn't support it, given the determination, because everyone is in favour of young scientists and young people, and when it comes to being just in the workplace, it turns out to be very difficult. Please, 30 seconds. Come into the hall. Please take up jobs. Please prepare for the vote. Take up jobs. All factions in favor, all factions in favor. You just have to be in the workplace. So, colleagues, please prepare. The support of young scientists is the support and future Ukrainian science. I saw those young people with the zeal and inspiration that were important to them in the Supreme Council and in the Supreme Council. But it is up to each of us. So, colleagues, please unite, take part in the vote. People's deputies are here, and I hope we can get back now. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Decision on the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award to the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and technological development for 2018 (No. 9410). Please vote, please support the return to the ruling. Vote, fellows! Done, voted responsibly. Everyone please take part in the vote. Please be supportive. Vote! Arthur! Please arrive. [[17:50:28]] For 216 Ten votes. Colleagues, colleagues, tell me, is there any more point in betting? Come on, MPs are coming in. I report specifically to those in the dining room. Please report to the workplace, please return to the hall. There are six national deputies in the dining room right now of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please go to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Hall. So my colleagues, the two deputies said they didn't make it, I'll put it again. I'm giving you 30 more seconds to get the deputies into the hall, look who's gone, call me back. I emphasize once again, I make special announcements for those who are now in the Supreme Council, but not in the Hall. Please come into the hall and take part in the vote. So, colleagues, please prepare to take up jobs. I'll put it back on the vote at the request of the people's deputies, hopefully it'll be effective. So I'm proposing to go back to the draft Order for the Award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and technological development for 2018 (No.9410). I ask, colleagues, everyone to be in the workplace, please vote and support the proposal to return to the draft decision. Please vote, please support, colleagues, carefully. Be at work, vote, please support, vote. Colleagues, every voice, we count every voice. Vladya! [[17:52:58]] For 219 Seven votes, missed. Okay, I'll do it again. But, colleagues, during the vote, I don't know how to ask anymore. Well, during the vote, you just have to be in the workplace. Colleagues, let's unite, not all have arrived, not all have been to work. Come on in, Maxim, sit down. So, colleagues, be careful when voting, be on the job. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Decision on the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the most talented young scientists (9410). Please vote, please support for your return, colleagues. Each voice has a weight, be in the workplace, please support, please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. We vote, colleagues, we support both Ukrainian science and Ukrainian young scientists. [[5:54:03]] For 228 228, colleagues. So if you'll all be seated right now, please don't leave. They're suggesting that I bet that I vote. I don't think we are. Vote! All right, colleagues, take your seats. Draft Decree 9410 is the basis and overall. Please vote colleagues, every vote! It was 228. Voting, supporting. 9410 is based on the whole. We support young scientists. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice. [[17:54:48]] For 237 237, decree adopted. My colleagues, thank you for the mobilization. Thank you all for your active work. We had the next draft of the Supreme Council Fellowships Ordinance, but we just don't have time to look at it anymore. Sadly, time limits us. We could consider many other laws and regulations that matter to Ukraine, to the Ukrainian Parliament, but unfortunately, time limits us, colleagues. Thank you all for your fruitful work. I remind you, tomorrow at 10 a.m., we're going to continue our work. At 10 a.m., I'm expecting everyone in the hall. And now for the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Successful factions, meetings today. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock we'll continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye.
