ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u1	Good morning! Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please take up jobs. So please turn on the registration system and register. [[10:05:21]] 232 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague, Ruslan Evgeniovich Demczak. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] And also today is the birthday of the Deputy Prime Minister on European and Euro-Atlantic integration of the Ukraine of Ivana Orestovna Klimpus-Cincadze. Welcome! [[Applause]] Colleagues, friends, today we have the anniversary of Ukraine's new victory. Five years ago the Ukrainian cities of Slavyansk, Kramatorsk, Dryztkowka, Kostinenivka, and Bahmut were freed from Russian occupation. And it was a great feat of Ukrainian soldiers. I remember those days as the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence when the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, ordered a counterattack, and the Ukrainian troops went against the attack. And today, Ukrainian soldiers, I'm sure, all over Ukraine are celebrating this day of our victory. There are a lot of people in our Chamber of Deputies, and there are people in the government who have been involved in counterattacks. Our colleague Mikhailo Bondar was seriously injured during his liberation. And I want to welcome today all those who on this great heroic day have liberated Ukrainian cities. [[Applause]] The Ukrainians, with tears in their eyes, met their deliverers. As we banished the invader five years ago, we will free Ukraine -- and Donbas, and the Ukrainian Crimea. To do this, we need to grow stronger every day. We remember the days of our victories. Glory to Ukraine! And also, colleagues, I would like to inform you that I am sending an official letter today to President Zelensky of Ukraine requesting the immediate signature of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigation Commissions, a special interim commission of inquiry and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to article 94 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President has 15 days after receiving the law to sign it or return the law with its motivated and formulated proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for reconsideration. I want to inform you that on June 27, this term was exhausted. The law under the Constitution of Ukraine is then considered to be approved by the President of Ukraine and must be signed and officially made public. Mr. Zelensky, I inform you that you no longer have the right to promise the TSC Act, now you can only sign it. If he's promised, it'll be a violation of the law. This law has been passed on the basis of the Constitution of Ukraine. It creates real parliamentary control in Ukraine, and above all, it clearly sets up and describes the procedures and parliamentary control of the interim commissions of inquiry, as well as the President's impeachment. This, I recall, was one of the promises of the election campaign. I'm officially sending this letter today. And I am convinced that the President of Ukraine will not only violate the law, but the Constitution of Ukraine, and in the coming days will sign the Law on Temporary Investigation Commissions. And I'm sure that my position is shared by all the Ukrainian national MPs, because almost 300 deputies voted in favour of this law. So, colleagues, I want to let you know that today we have an hour of questions to the government. And please welcome the Cabinet ministers who are with us today in the hall. Greetings, colleagues, them. And I want to report that today's Cabinet of Ministers will be Minister of Youth and Sports Igor Alexanderovich Zhdanov. Please, Mr. Igor. And then questions from factions and national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u2	Dear national MPs, dear Ukrainian people! Today, I have a very pleasant occasion to speak from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. During the days in Minsk, the 2nd European Games were completed – prestigious multi-sport competitions, which for many sports are a rehearsal for the Tokyo-2020 Olympic Games. More than 4,000 athletes from 50 countries participated in the European Games, representing 198 athletes in 15 sports and 22 disciplines. The national assembly team of Ukraine triumphantly took part in this tournament. Our athletes won 51 medals — phenomenal 16 gold prizes, 17 silver medals, and 18 bronze medals. The champions of the competition were Darius Billodyd and George Zantara, Anastasia Sapsai, the samba. The boxers took the lead, and the gold prizes were won by Victor Vichrist and Alexander the Hižnjak. We have powerful traditions in the fight, as evidenced by the victories of Yulia Tkac and Jean Belenyuk. Our gymnast, Oleg Vernyev, who only recently recovered after the trauma and surgery, was pleased to recapture the highest step of the pedestal of honor. The 15-year-old Ukraine of Anastasia Bachinska was a real sensation of sports gymnastics competitions. This is her first prize in the Euroigres and a gold medal immediately. It was triumphantly performed by light athletes who won command gold in the new discipline of "dynamic new athletics". Our Olympic hope is Anita Seryogina and Stanislaw Goruna were invincible in karate. In very difficult weather conditions, he himself witnessed this storm in the stands, in a two-bedroom, defeated Mary Powch and Ludmila Kuklinovska. The competition was successful for cyclist Anna Solovay, who won the gold in the race for the points. Ukraine has ranked third in the media advance of the 2nd European Games among 50 participating countries. Along with millions of sports fans, we will witness the best ever in the history of our collective European Games. Let's welcome the main heroes of Minsk, all the winners and winners, all the athletes, all the coaches, the doctors, the masseuses, the headquarters of this remarkable achievement. Please, let's give our athletes a round of applause. [[Applause]] Compared to the First Eurogram in Baku, our team has managed to double the score for gold prizes and exceed the total number of medals won. In 2015 our athletes won 46 awards: 8 gold, 14 silver, 24 bronze. We were only eight places behind the highest-class medals. In general, some 60 million dollars of taxpayers’ money was invested in preparation and participation of athletes for the first European Games in Minsk. In preparation for the needs of the assembly teams, modern equipment, form, and inventory total 23 million bracelets have been added. In particular, 7 drums and canoes, a set of gymnastics equipment, high jump equipment, arch shooting inventory, an Ascor electronic device for ball shooting, form and other professional equipment. As we can see, our athletes on their way to a triumph in Minsk have experienced some serious support from the Ukrainian state. I think that the phenomenal result in Euroigras-2019 is also the best estimate of the fine long-term work of the entire sports family. With the support of the governments of Arsenius Yatsenuk and Vladimir Groysman, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Professional Committee, together with the National Federations, the Budget Committee, the National Olympic Committee, the Sports Committee, the National Committee on Disabled People's Sport of Ukraine, we have not only kept the Ukrainian sport from falling; we continue to develop it. We have worked hard to create better conditions for its development than in previous times. And all of this in the face of Russian invasion, war, occupation, economic challenges, constant general criticism, that's all wrong, everything's gone wrong, we're going the wrong way. I am also convinced that success in the first European Games is countering myths and myths that the Ukrainian sports of higher achievements are failing, and our state is reportedly leaving hundreds of athletes. Dear colleagues, that's just not true. Ukraine doesn't lose, Ukraine wins. This is also evidenced by the achievements of the Olympic and neolympic sports, our Paralympics, and the Deflimpics in the international sports arena. Yes, since the beginning of 2019 the National Assembly team of Ukraine’s Olympic sports team has participated in nearly 500 international top-level tournaments, the world and Europe championships, the cup competitions. The Olympics chose 218 prizes: 66 gold, 72 silver, and 80 bronze. The process of winning licences for the Summer Olympic Games in Tokyo-2020 began. We already have the first seven Olympic licences: 2 in the swim and 5 in the ball. With the passing of our hearts, we all watched the U-20 World Cup finals, where young footballers from Ukraine won. In our eyes, the history of Ukrainian football was rewritten. Thanks to players, coaches, the leadership of the Ukrainian Football Association, administrators, and congregation doctors. Thank you so much for bringing up these boys. We want to stay out of trouble and work hard, to build a successful career in adult football. Sportsmen from neolympic sports in July 2019 took part in 118 official international competitions. They chose a thousand 200 prizes, 427 gold, 396 silver, 377 bronze medals. Ukraine’s National Assembly and Team of Disabled Persons Sports participated in 75 international competitions. The total number of prizes awarded in the first half of the year was 372 medals: 133 gold, 121 silver, and 118 bronze. Noting that Europe’s first football champions returned to their homeland as the National Deflimpic Team of Ukraine. The championship was held from 2 to 15 June of the current year in Greece. 16 of the continent’s top football team have won the competition. In addition, in order to provide sports clothes and inventory for Ukrainian team members from sports groups in 2019, people with disabilities have purchased more than 35 million dollars. At the same time, a draft presidential decree has been developed to provide for the appointment of Head of State scholarships for trainers who systematically work with children with disabilities, i.e. to provide quality training for these children with high sporting results in the country-wide competitions, ensuring their full life and sports and physical rehabilitation. At its meeting on June 26, the government supported a legal and regulatory act. The document is currently on the signature of the President of Ukraine. The development of sport infrastructure remains one of the priorities of the government and the M & D medium-term and long-term transport. We've developed a series of state investment projects that have received government support. In 2019 the first steps were taken to implement them at the expense of the state budget. The first 5 million dollars are allocated for the investment in the construction of the Ice Arena in Kiev. 25 million dollars is provided for the implementation of the State Investment Project "Reconstruction of the Atlantic Core of the Atlet Sports Complex". The new project for the construction of the specialized floating complex of the state-owned enterprise, "Olympic" is also supported by the Koncha-Sasp training centre. The Minmolodysport budget, which you people’s deputies have approved for this year, separately provides 600 million dollars of subsidies in areas for the repair, reconstruction, and construction of sports objects. In particular, 200 million dollars is for the construction and creation of new sports palaces, 200 million dollars for the construction of multi-functional sports playgrounds and 200 million dollars for the construction of a state budget for construction, reconstruction, capital repair of swimming pools. During this time, the Minmolodysport held a meeting of the competition commission on sports palaces and swimming pools, developed legislation on the distribution of targeted subsidies, expected to be ordered by the Cabinet of Ministers and then agreed with the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We also maintain our proposed quota of 10 percent of the State Regional Development Fund’s funds for the construction and reconstruction of sports objects on site. The Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine initially agreed on 50 projects in the early 19th year that could be implemented at the expense of the DFRD. I would like to remind you that these programmes and the reform of decentralization have led to the first but important steps in the last three years towards restoring the country's sporting infrastructure. The number of sports buildings in Ukraine has increased by more than 2,000, 650. These are restored and built sports facilities, playgrounds, football fields, halls, and so forth. This is definitely a positive dynamic. I am deeply grateful to the Government, the Supreme Council, the National Deputies and the entire sports community for the support we feel about the restoration of the sport infrastructure in Ukraine. This direction depends on the further improvement of the athletic performance of athletes in the international arena, as well as the involvement of more citizens and young people in active lifestyles and regular sports activities. Together with national sports federations, the ministry continues to strengthen the reputation of Ukraine as countries of international tournaments. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I invite all those present and cowards to follow the European Commanding Championships from the Atlantic Multiverse. The competition will take place at an updated stadium in Lutsk. Preparations continue for the European Water Jump Championship from 5 to 11 August this year in Kiev and the European Water Sports Championship among young people until 21 years old in Dnipro. Also this year, there will be championships in the world of water-ski sports, Wakeboarding in Kiev, dancing sports, rowing on dragon boats, military-sporting battles. I'm convinced that by working together we'll be conducting all these competitions at a high organizational level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u3	Thank you. So, colleagues, now we're moving on to questions. I would like to remind you that today, the government that is present in Parliament, headed by Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Paul Valeriyovich Rosenk, will coordinate the responses from the National Deputies. And now I'm asking you to record a question from factions and groups. Please. From the "Peter Prashenko Block" to the word "spores Ivan Dmitrovich."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u4	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block. And of course, once again, like my agrarian district, I always think and worry about my farmers, my agricultural enterprises that are in our district, Winnitzkin. And, of course, once again, I have a question for the Ministry of Agricultural Development, well, of course, to the Cabinet of Ministers. Why? Because we want if after the elections, God will give, someone will stay, someone will not stay, so that, after all, this financing for agriculture will stay, so that everything will be done in the budget to get the agricultural producers, especially the simple agricultural producers, the farmers. Because I still think it's a very big help that's been before these years and so on. And in the 19th year, we have to leave everything unannounced, otherwise we shouldn't worry about the oligarchs, but we should worry about the common Ukrainian people. I'm asking if that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u5	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u6	Yes, turn on the microphone. Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! The government is present today, all the ministries are fully stocked. This question will therefore be answered by an alternate minister of agricultural policy, Olga Trofimtsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u7	Yes. Thank you very much, thank you for asking. With regard to the current year of funding, the treasury plan goes to small farmers. Yesterday we literally conducted a video selector, a video selector with our regions, with all the areas, I was communicating, there are dot problems where maybe there are, for example, loans for partial compensatory techniques for cooperation with banks, but they're also solving them. I fully support you in planning this funding for the coming years, not only for the next 20 years, but in the medium term, as we have moved on to three-year budget funding. The Ministry of Agar Politics has been developed. developed a project, once again, to amend the Tax Code so that we can fix one percent of aggro GDP in the next five years to support an agrarian producer in Ukraine, first of all a small and family farmer. I very much hope that the new Supreme Council will now support this initiative, and accordingly we will be able to set up these funds to compensate both for credit rates and to spend technology and, for example, help with primary processing, storage, logistics chains and agrarian exports. So thank you, we'll work in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u8	Thank you. By "self-help" Olena Babak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u9	Dear members of the government! Recently, the Cabinet of Ministers made a very sensitive decision for people on the issue of heat tariffs. But there was a very serious accusation from the Cabinet of Ministers against the mayors of cities of district importance that they were rogues who were taking money offshore through heat tariffs. This is a very serious accusation, very serious, especially when it sounds from the mouth of the minister of justice. Please tell me, what is the reason why the mayor of Kiev, who set the tariff at 1,611 bracelets instead of 1,400, would consider a charlatan? And what were the economic reasons for this? This is a very serious and sensitive question for people. Explain what the government was up to when making that decision, and what the cost of the budget for heat-energy damage would go according to the government's estimates, because the Prices and Prices Act requires the government to regulate the price of determining the source of damages. The government didn't do it, the money didn't go off.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u10	Thank you for asking. Well, let's start with the fact that no charges or accusations can be judged today only by the courts. We gave concrete examples and concrete facts of prices that were not economically justified. At the government meeting today, there will be a presentation of evidence from the Single State Register of Legal Persons regarding specific beneficiaries of a municipal enterprise, including from foreign jurisdictions and offshore jurisdictions. That's what happens to owners. As for compensation or non-compensation from the budget, I can tell you that under the Housing Services Act, the Local Self-Government Act has the right of local self-government authorities to make local budgets. No compensation from the state budget is provided for in the Cabinet of Ministers’ decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u11	Thank you. From the Rebirth Party, Shipko Andry Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u12	Since July 1, new rules on the electricity market have been adopted. It's a good name for the market, and there's no market in the part of the market. The tariffs for small, medium and large businesses grew by 30 percent. It's going to grow produce, and it's going to put all the pressure on our people. And they canceled the day-to-night counters that people put on their own account. So if it's a market, make a market for businesses, and protect our people who invested money. Make some kind of average tariff for them. This is, I think, my MP's request. And I think it's urgent to hold a government meeting on this issue so that we don't raise these tariffs for the whole country.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u13	Dear National Deputies! Deputy Minister Korzun. It's a little bit of ours, not exactly our jurisdiction, it's not the National Commission for Tariff Policy Regulation, it's the NCRECR. And for today, there's a market function that's powerful in Ukriinterenergo. But I want to report that there may be some price distortions somewhere, but we don't have that kind of information. So there are certain limitations in this respect. And what I'm trying to tell you is that today the government is also going to consider making some changes to regulation and to the relationship that is made up of the electricity market. And in more detail, we will give you the answer to your request in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u14	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u15	Yes, thank you. I'm sorry, thank you for asking. Indeed, we will form appropriate assignments, and you will be given the answer to all the questions you have asked, including cancellations or cancellations of night tariffs. And in general, with regard to the last actions of the government, and in particular the recent decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which, in implementing the Law on the Energy Market, which you rightly said entered into, from 1 July 2019, have taken the appropriate decisions of our government to ensure that the introduction and entry into force of this law does not lead to an increase in electricity prices in the first place for consumers. So we're going to form an appropriate order, and you're going to get an answer from the NCRE and from the Ministry of Law to the set terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u16	Thank you. From the Radical Party to the word, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u17	I have a question for the government. Naftogazu's head, Kobolev, of the state company, registered income for almost 400 million dollars last year. That's 2 million dollars a day dripped into his offshore accounts. Why don't you just shut up? That's normal for you to think, in a country where five million pensioners get 1.5 thousand dollars of pension? You've just added two bracelets to your pension, and they tell me when they meet. And Koboljevo, 2 million dollars a day, drips into an account. Whose pocket does that money come from? From the pockets of people who pay space tariffs more than their income. You take subsidies from people to save the budget, people have to write off their children in order to pay off the grant. The debt of 200 dollars for the utility – the subsidy is taken away, Koboljevo – millions. They've counted the bonus they've drawn, 1.5 billion dollars, they're the locks with the trailer. When are you going to return this coin to Ukraine, back to pay off citizens' debts for the utility?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u18	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, thank you for your, as always, constructive and emotional performance. You know the government's position on this issue. That really NAC leader Naftagazu Ukraine was paid the corresponding awards under the terms of the contract that he had when he signed it, which were made yet, let's say, before our government did. Today, a new contract has been signed with NAK Naftogazu, a new contract that does not have such high premiums as the previous contract. So the government put in, took into account the shortcomings that were in signing a contract with NAC leader Naftogazu, which were allowed in the previous period. We reviewed the terms of the contract. And today, relations with NAC leader Naftogaz Ukraine are under very different conditions. About the terms of the new contract, I think we'll let you know on your parliamentary appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u19	Thank you. From the People's Front, Katzer Buchkowska. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u20	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon to the members of the government! I want to raise the issue of energy security because there is always such a danger in the electoral period that it is a strategically important issue. It is important to communicate and ensure, however, that the Ukrainians have the winter, are provided with gas, and that gas transit has been provided in the first place since 2020. It's also effective in resisting the North Stream. But in addition to these strategic things, it is very important to provide internal gas production. And last week, the Interministerial Commission, which is involved in investing in gas production, took nine investors for nine large deposits in Ukraine. And signing these contracts will bring about a million and a half dollars to Ukraine in the first five years. And these contracts can involve up to $4 and a half billion in the implementation of these agreements. That's why I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u21	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u22	So I have a very big request for government members to meet with the government to support the approval of these agreements and to sign the corresponding contracts. And we will continue to make sure that investors come to Ukraine, extract natural gas, and Ukraine has begun to extract gas in the next two or three years. And over the course of five or seven years, it's become energy-dependent, and there's no need to buy this expensive gas, and Ukrainians would have had Ukrainian gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u23	I thank you very much for the very principled question which, in general, is not only before the individual government or the individual Supreme Council of Ukraine, but the issue of Ukraine's energy independence is in fact at the time of the declaration of our State's independence. And we are well aware that Ukraine's full independence is only possible if Ukraine's real energy independence is also properly secured. And that's possible from two main factors: the first factor is that we need to talk about reducing consumption of all kinds of enterprises, institutions, natural gas organizations as the main energy. On the other hand, you rightly say that Ukraine should grow its own gas. Only by combining these two basic factors will we be able, in principle, to give up the purchase of foreign gas. And it was for the implementation of these decisions by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that in December 2016, the concept of the development of the Ukrainian gas sector was adopted by 2020. And according to this concept, it has to be provided with a resource of its own production of approximately 27.5 billion cubic metres of gas, of which the Crushing has to provide more than 20 billion cubic metres of gas, other enterprises, including private enterprises, about what we're talking about, about 7.5 billion cubic meters of gas to be provided. Yes, on the one hand, we see that during 2018 the volume of production.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u24	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u25	The volume of shale gas has increased by about 250 million cubic metres of gas. But at the same time, we feel that the growth in own gas is unsatisfactory, which puts the concept at risk. So we really have to, on the one hand, improve efficiency.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u26	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u27	Ten seconds. I mean, on the one hand, we need to improve the efficiency of the Crushing activity, on the other hand, to open up opportunities for foreign investors to develop our gas sector and to get an alternative to gas to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u28	Thank you. From the Opposition Block. Germany's handing over the Shufrench. Shurmi, my God, I'm sorry, please. Excuse me, Igor Shurmi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u29	In view of your apology, I will not call you Heratschenko. Okay. It's a deal. I have a question like that. The head of the Ukrainian Embassy’s consular office in Poland, Svetlana Chrisa, reported that 794 Ukrainian citizens had died in Poland after a year and a half. Questions. Do you have any data on how many Ukrainian citizens have gone abroad since they were 15 years old, and how many have died? I'm speaking out calmly today, unlike Mr. Lášk, because speaking emotionally to Mr. Rosenk makes no sense, he promised to put Todurovo to work on a contract, not yet done today. Prime Minister Groissman instructed us to arrange a contract, not executed. The decision to reinstate Mr. Todurov at work has not been executed. So you've been taking medicine, you can't answer it, but I'm asking for an answer from the dead and the gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u30	Deputy Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u31	Thank you so much for asking. Unfortunately, today I am not ready to give you the exact numbers to answer your question. But I promise you that we will respond in writing with all the details that you have broken today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u32	Thank you. Now. Two groups and factions were not recorded. This is "The Fatherland" – John Krulko and "The Will of the People" – Shahov. First Ivan Krulko, then Shahov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u33	Ivan Krulko faction of Fatherland. I have a question. And I ask you to comment on the relevant ministers in which this issue is addressed, is the Minister of Education, the Minister of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Finance. In this composition of Parliament, we have voted on an extremely important bill on State support for Plastic. It's not just a social organization, it's a system of raising Ukrainian youth in the spirit of patriotism, of love for their country. And actually, on this basis, on the basis of the methods that are in plastic, it would be good to start the educational process of Ukrainian youth in our state. This bill is now being signed by the President of Ukraine. And I'd like to go to the minister of profile, especially the Ministry of Finance, so you don't get any negative conclusions about this bill. This bill needs to be signed, and the law has to work. And thousands and thousands of Ukrainian youths look forward to it, which will make the law grow in the spirit of patriotism. I'd like to comment. And what were the positions on that question?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u34	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u35	First of all, I want to say that I would like to thank the people's deputies of Ukraine for adopting this law. This is indeed a bill that is meant to support one of the most powerful patriotic organizations that exists in Ukraine, and it continues to exist, not just to exist, but to carry out its national mission in our country. So what I'm saying is that the government supports the bill. And for my part, I want to ask President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine to sign this bill as soon as possible so that he can enter into force. And a powerful, all-Ukrainian, world-famous, public organization has received the proper support of the state. I think that other ministries have no sense of answering, and we have expressed our support for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u36	Thank you. I'm going to remind you that the Plastics Act is the time to sign. And I spoke to him yesterday, and I am also addressing him today, just as I am convinced that the canvasses, our scouts, cannot be hostages of political intrigues. And I am convinced that the President of Ukraine will sign this law, and in a second he will become the law when we publish in the Voice of Ukraine and in the Government courier. Hopefully, it'll be the next few days, literally the next few days. And the final question from the faction of the groups is Shahov. And then a recording from the National Deputies, after a question from Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u37	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. I'm talking to the Minister of Ecology, the Minister of Infrastructure, the Minister of Energy, Fuel and Coal, again and again, Lugansk. In Luhansk, environmental disaster. In Luhansk, a technological disaster. For example, in this winter in Rubizny, as Sergey the Great told me, 6,000 apartments were unheated, and today schools, kindergartens, could remain. That's why it's a requirement to give Reuben 45 million dollars to rebuild the infrastructure. And the great one also reported: after cleaning up the buildings that pollute the Silver Donner today, again in Reuben City, just about 36 million dollars to improve the environmental situation in the Luhansk region. To the Minister of Energy and Coal. The celery water, however, pours into the North Donz and does not dislodge. So right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u38	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u39	Also from the city of Lysicánsk, a message from Alexander Sukhova, a garbage dump that burns, no one pays attention, just playing with the election. Please pay attention to the city of Lysichansk and please get the Ministry of Public Health involved in the situation immediately and resolve the matter. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u40	Good afternoon! Minecology, Deputy Minister Victor Wakarash. Dear People's Deputy, we are indeed dealing with the issue of bringing order to the environmental issues of Luhansk. There's an appropriate program, and on the questions you've asked, we'll prepare and give you a concrete answer to what's going on in the direction. And in the waters of the Silver Don and in other objects, where we think there are environmental problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u41	Thank you. And, colleagues, I'd like you to record a statement from the National Deputies for a question from the National Deputies. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u42	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. I'll speak for all of Lugansk, for my district of 114. This is the Continental Lugansk Region, the Milovsk Region, the Bilovodsk Region, the Novopskovsky District, the Markowsk Region. Tell me, in Luhansk, a dairy mafia is being built today, as far as I know, farms that have no cows, they record these peasant cows, and they don't pay grants at all to those who hold them today, even if there's only one cow left. Please tell me who's going to pay attention to this and investigate today's looting of farm farms, looting peasants for not paying social benefits, both in the CRD, and for the cattle that are holding hands today. Next. It's about grain. Monopolists today buy grain at a price. Notice, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u43	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u44	Note the monopolies who today, using their money and so forth, are now being bought for grain and then sold to the big market. And also about the roads in Luhansk. There's no tender, no pit, no graves, no camels hiding in these rugs, and no one's paying attention to it. Thank you. Sergei Shahov's political power "Our End".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u45	Yes, thank you for asking, Mr. Shahov. As for the first question. There have been no official specific references to this issue. So I'm asking you very much, if you can, to form this as also a parliamentary query and specific facts to give these, because we're going to deal with it later. Clearly, the law enforcement authorities need to look at this situation, and we will communicate with the district management to see more closely what is going on with these, as you say, fictitious farms and subsidies. And as for the second part of your question of agrarian and grain. This is probably one of those, for example, key issues for today in the agricultural field in Lugansk, Donetsk, areas that are near an armed conflict zone. Because it's clear that there's not enough logistic capacity for today, infrastructure, especially for small farmers, so that they can export their own crops or keep them, and then sell their crops to traders, international traders, yes, and so on. So I think we should also focus on how we can help medium-sized, small-scale producers to strengthen their infrastructure and logistics capabilities for primary grain storage, stockpiling, so that they don't sell it from wheels, as you say, yes, they didn't sell it for no price immediately after harvest, but they could store it, and so at a normal cost to sell it later or international traders, or even directly to export markets. On the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u46	Thank you. Teen Leo Theophilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u47	The word Opanasenko Alexandre.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u48	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Paul Valeriyovich! There's a little question. I would like to remind you that in early January 2018 there was President No. 5's order, in which it was actually the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to raise social assistance for orphans who actually live in families in foster families. I'd like to remind you that in a year and a half this hasn't been done, in fact, how it's remained, so in a year and a half, there's no increase in these payments. As far as I'm aware, last week there was a Kabminu decision that was about to raise some questions about the payment of state social assistance to orphans and children deprived of parental care, support for small group homes there, and so forth. The draft decree contained an article that increased aid from 2 to 3 minimum of living for each child. But there was no final decision on that sentence. Tell me at last.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u49	30 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u50	Please answer, when will the government finally comply with the President's decree of one and a half years ago and increase the payment for orphans who are in foster homes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u51	Deputy Minister of Social Policy Shambor Mikola Ivanovich Ladies and gentlemen, the question of raising social assistance for children, including children with disabilities and orphans, has been dealt with more than once, and the minimum of living has been increased since July and this assistance has also been raised. But we're working on further increases now, and so on. In this case, the mechanism of promotion is still being developed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u52	Thank you. Kuprienko gives the floor to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u53	I just got off the phone with Ivan Klimpush-Cincadze. I want her to be as beautiful as anyone in Ukraine. In the past, unfortunately, I have allowed myself to make wrong statements at the address of Ivanna Klimpush-Cincadze. I'm sorry about that. And I urge all Ukrainian men to always love, respect, appreciate the best Ukrainian women. Yes, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u54	Thank you. The next question is Sauka Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u55	Good day, great government, colleagues, deputies, people of Ukraine! As I learned, there are illegal, presumptuous events in the judiciary of our country of Ukraine in the city of Turka. There is a judge such as Krill Luka Mihajlovich, who was detained in the Turkish district in 18.12.2018 by the prosecutors and the SAP and in conjunction with the Ukrainian Security Service of the Lviv Region when he received the wrong benefit. By 19.03 this year, the Supreme Council of Justice, Judge Cril, had been removed from office. However, SAP’s subsequent prosecutors failed to submit to the Supreme Council of Justice for the removal of Judge Cril. Thus the said judge returned to his duties. I ask the Attorney General, the minister of the Ministry of Justice, to pay attention and provide a legal explanation. My request is to be considered as a question of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u56	Thank you. Well, actually, this question is a little bit outside the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, there are relevant bodies, including those created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that have to exercise proper supervision, control and process on such cases, but in any case we will consider your appeal as the National Deputy of Ukraine and within our jurisdiction we will give an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u57	Thank you. Buglak Yuri Aleksandrovich gives the floor to the question of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u58	Ivan Sporish, Winnitzkin, 15th district. Of course, last time I asked Mr. Vladimir Omelian's Infrastructure Minister on the road to Winniechka the High-Crižopil, on the road T 0233. I'll say what's usually nice is that the process has gone, and that's where the pit repairs started. Well, these are pit repairs. But I'd love to. There's agricultural enterprises, all of them. Who work there would set their shoulders, if, indeed, as I asked that time, Mr. Volodymyr Omelyan, to actually capitalize on this road to make one so as not to spend any extra money. Nobody says roads are built, and we see it. Every time you don't go through, they build, they build, they build, they build. That's a lot. Thank you for that. But the limestone needs to be repaired there today. I'm asking you very much to pay attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. Your request will certainly be taken into account by the high-ranking national MPs. But it's all against the money. The cost of an emergency repair, or, say, a pit and the current one, is a few million dollars a mile. The cost of capital is between 15 million and 20 million dollars per kilometre. So the difference is actually 10 times. If, once again, I hope very much that the new Parliament, and you will be in it, will vote on the new budget, will have a road fund, at least 75 billion dollars, then the whole country will be easier, and roads will be built faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u60	Thank you. Rooster Vladimir Kostinovich, please. Yeah, sorry, he's passing. And he gives it to you, doesn't he? The pervs. So he's giving it to you? Yes. Kurenny is the Curvature of Vadim Viktorovich. Please, Vadim Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u61	Yes. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, on June 7, 2017, you were given Decree 413 which effectively blocked the possibility of Ukrainian citizens exercising their right to land, 2 hectares of OSH. ATOs were severely affected because only 25 percent of the auctions were auctioned. They had the right to receive land auctions. People's deputies made constitutional submissions, and on June 25, 19th, this decision was declared unconstitutional. Please tell me, how do you think you're gonna fix this right now? Because in the Zaporozhye region of 10,000 ATO participants, only more than 1,000 realized this right to receive this land and through this corrupt decision. The following day it is declared unconstitutional. Someone will be responsible for the fact that for almost two years, the possibility of getting ATO 2 hectares was blocked? Please tell me I want an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u62	Yes, indeed they are appropriate, there are appropriate decisions today by the appropriate courts regarding the operation of this decree. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is now working on the implementation of the decisions of the relevant courts. And today we will make appropriate changes to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. In particular, we're going to form parliamentary appeals and we're going to give you the answer to every question, what you said -- how, how do we, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, plan to settle this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u63	Thank you. Next Chizmar Yury.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u64	Kocheyeva, Kocheyeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u65	Koschaevi, please give me a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u66	I have a question for Vice Prime Minister Paul Rosenk of Ukraine. Paul Valeriyovich, please tell us, right now, about two thousand families of internally displaced ATO participants are under the Cabinet of Ministers. And they have an unresolved housing issue. Unfortunately, I did not get a clear answer from the government, which was used to ensure that internally displaced ATO participants were provided with this residence. Please let the citizens of Ukraine and the national MPs know when this question will be resolved in what way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u67	Thank you so much for asking, a very important question. And I want to say that I had a personal meeting with ATO participants yesterday, internally displaced, meeting on these issues. And the question, again, is about ensuring proper funding, because the budget funding provided by the Ministry of Social Policy is clearly not enough for today to provide all the participants in the fighting, the participants in the anti-terrorist operation, from the number of internally displaced persons, with adequate housing. What's more, we have information, unfortunately, that there's a distinction between information from different central executives, primarily the power authorities, about the total number of people who need to improve housing. We have different data: out of 2.5 thousand, these guys who are now taking care of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine call the figures 4.5 thousand people who need the registered housing. So we have a joint commission today that I signed a corresponding commission yesterday that the Ministry of Social Policy, along with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, will form an appropriate working group with the Ministry of Defence. On Monday there will be a meeting with the working group, where the question will be solved, first of all, it will actually form an appropriate number and number of people who claim to be living there, and together with representatives, the participants in the ATO will work out new criteria and new changes to 280 of the Cabinet of Ministers, which regulate this issue. Along with not waiting for a change in Ukraine’s state budget, the government recently adopted a decision on the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u68	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u69	30 seconds. With regard to the additional targeting of 70 million dollars for this programme, 40 million will be sent to the Ministry of Social Policy for confiscated funds, and 30 million dollars are taken separately by the Ministry of Internal Affairs to provide their representatives, members of the ATO from the number of displaced persons. So we're trying to find a question, but a complex solution, I hope it's coming up soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u70	Thank you. Ribechin gives the word for the question of Bezbakh to Jacob. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u71	Thank you, Alexia, for the word. I have a question for Paul Valeriovich Rosenka. Please tell me why the funding of the only Institute in Ukraine for Labour and Disability Expertise, in the DINETIN people, in Dnipro? And yet the second question with Toduro is not a treaty? Courts won, that's all. Someone's ghost or something? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u72	On the first question. Please give me the name of the relevant institution. We've got it. Well, it means the situation on this issue. We have today, we do. All scientific institutions are being funded on a planned basis. We don't have any delays in funding. But in this research institute, we're going to give you separate information. On this issue, there were earlier questions about the conclusion of a treaty with Mr. Toddurov. The Ministry of Health will now answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u73	Paul Covtonjak, deputy minister. The situation with Mr. Toddurov's contract is very simple. The contract from the Ministry of Health has long been signed. Mr. Todurov's contract is not signed. We're waiting for his signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u74	Thank you. Next. Korczynska gives Demczak a word for questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u75	To the government, directly to Prime Minister of Ukraine, who is the head of the State Commission on Technological and Environmental Safety and Emergencies, Groisman Vladimir Borisovich, Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Construction of Zubko Hennady Grigorovovich. On June 23, about 300 homes were injured in Kovalów, a united district community in the Winnitsk region. And this community, it needs help. Therefore, I ask that immediate steps be taken to determine the extent of the damage caused by the natural disaster and to take the necessary steps to eliminate the consequences of a natural emergency. And to allocate funding to the unified community of Kovaliv to deal with the consequences of this disaster, which is, in fact, such that they cannot by their own means overcome it, including the budget they put into such situations, is apparently insufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u76	Deputy Minister Yuri Brovchenko. Thank you for asking. We are in charge of this issue. Appropriate measures have been taken, but the quality of preparation of documents, unfortunately, remains extremely low by the district government today. It's just that the documents are going to be prepared, and we know about 300 million per. This is Lvivska, Czernovetska, Ivano-Frankiv region. The Mingeon can support me in this matter completely, that we are ready to provide such assistance. We're prepared for them by the Ministry of Economic Development with regard to the allocation of funds from the State Budget Reserve Fund. We cannot, we have no legal basis on the part of the district government, their meetings, their justifications, their acts. If you'll excuse me, please, it's more than that. This is what we ask you to do to help us prepare such quality documents, and we will make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u77	Thank you. And the final question of Gulak Alexander Mikolayovich. Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u78	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. And again, Naftogaz. When Oleg Valeriyovich asked questions, he asked: When will they return the lock with the trailer? In part, I remind all the audiences and audiences in this room: Naftogaz Ukraine is a society created by the Cabinet of Ministers; he is the founder, the host, the owner and the manager. And to tell you that someone did something wrong there, some supervisory board, you can do it, but not to people who understand what a founder and a business owner is. Questions. When will Kobolev return to the people of Ukraine the money - laden locks that he illegally obtained, to my deep conviction, as a bonus?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u79	Dear friends, well, since there is no Naftogazu leader here, Andrija Kobolev, I will not take the liberty of answering this question whether or not he will come back when he returns. So I think maybe we can make appropriate parliamentary appeals directly to the NAC leader of Naftogaz Ukraine and ask him a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u80	Thank you. In turn, I would like to thank all the members of the government for the discussion in the Hall for the appropriate question. Thank you, Cabinet of Ministers. And once again, Joanna, with your birthday and your successful and fruitful work, your success. And now we are moving on to the next equally important part of our work -- reading parliamentary requests and voting on parliamentary questions. And I invite you to speak to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oksana Siroid. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u81	Respectful colleagues, respected Ukrainians, came up with the following questions from Ukrainian national deputies: Oxana Korczynski to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the review of the listing and selection of the integrated military property nomenclature of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for the Ukrainian Armed Forces project of the Cabinet of Ministers 'For the approval of a list of mobile military assets of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which may be alienated' in 2019, according to the Order on the Order of Derogation and Implementation of Military Property of the Armed Forces, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 28 December 2000 No 1919 (with amendments) and paragraph 5.1.2. of the Supplement to the Drafting Plan for Legislative and Other Legislative and Legal Acts. Oksana Korczynski to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, on the amendment of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence Order No. 90 from 4 March 2019 with the aim of maintaining the regularity of medical personnel of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence. Sergia Shahova to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the competitive procedure for the selection of a private partner for a state-private partnership under the Energy City: Ukraine-European Union project. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the deliberate and long-term failure to execute a court decision. Michael Bondar, temporarily acting as Head of the Lviv District State Administration, temporarily acting as Director of the Department of Roads, Transport and Communications of the Lviv Regional Administration, Head of the Lviv Road Service in the Lviv Region, for the repair of the road in the village of Wuzło Radehov district of Lviv. Michael Bondar to the temporary duty of head of the Lviv District State Administration, temporarily acting as Director of the Department of Roads, Transport and Communications of the Lviv Regional Administration, Head of the Lviv Road Service in the Lviv Region, to complete the repairs of the road C140206 Red-Chemerinci through the village of Marmuzovich of the Bou region of Lviv. Groups of National Deputies (Davidenka, Melnickenka, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase the annual amount of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the financial security of construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of roads of general use of local value, streets and roads of municipal property in the localities. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for a report on information that may indicate that a criminal offence has been committed against children and their sexual exploitation. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Slovenian Rural Council of the Žitomir Region, the City of Žitomir, the Head of the Orutsky District State Administration, the Head of the Žitomir District Council, temporarily acting as head of the Zitomir District Authority on the immediate provision of information on the reasons and the measures taken as a result of Dashi Makarčuk's tragic death. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, is temporarily acting as head of the Provincial District Administration for the provision of practical, including material, assistance to a multi-child family who has lost a breadwinner. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to simplify the process of obtaining a fuel-storage license for agrarians. Andrija Nemirowski to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on criminal matters concerning officials of the rural council, constructionists and civil servants of the Kyiv-Svetoshin region. Irina Lucenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, for clarification on the appointment of the head of the Luhansk district government. Irina Lucenko to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service to provide information on the identity of the person in charge of the Luhansk district administration. Jurya Boyka to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Director of the State Bureau of Investigations on the need for urgent action to prevent restrictions on the supply and distribution of electricity to state-owned industrial enterprises. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the inadmissibility of reducing public education schools in the rural area of Biloczerkovsky, Voddarski, Stavishtenski, Tarostian, Tetiyev, Skuri district of Kyiv region. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the Central Nuclear Fuel Repository in the Chernobyl AES zone. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take action to release detained Ukrainian citizens, members of the crew of the vessel "Tcne" Alexander Kasherny and Alexander Nazarene. Igor Shurma to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for establishing the non-target use of state funds when implementing the Rural Medicine program by officials. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for bringing responsibility to the leadership of the State Health Centre of the Ministry of Public Health of Ukraine for criminal inaction in the organization of the state health and epidemiology system. Sergia Rudika to the Kamyan City Head of the Cherka region on the status of implementation of the Regional Development Project "Development and Placement of the Tsamin Canyon Tourist Site" in Kamyanka, Cherkas region, which is implemented on the basis of funds received from the European Union in the implementation of the Agreement on the Financing of the Sectoral Policy Support Programme - Support for Ukraine's Regional Policy. Vladimir Katsuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the fields of energy and municipal services for the protection of the rights and interests of the local community of the township of Pisocin of the Kharkiv district of Kharkiv region, which is unlawfully listed by the shareholders of the "Harkigaz gas distribution system" with significant volumes of gas consumed by calculating the volume of gas consumed according to the standard conditions, using the ratio of bringing to standard conditions rather than the working conditions that are indicated by the counter. Gregory Times to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution of problems related to the construction of international car crossings of Krasnoilsk and Dzhakowci in the Cherniewsky region. Savchenko's hopes for the Ukrainian Defence Minister to take effective action to return the defence land to a total area of 286,79 ha in the Hmelnicki district, which has been lost to the Ministry of Defence in 2006, making it impossible to properly prepare the Hmelnicki garrison military forces, as well as 8 separate regiments of the Special Forces Special Operations Force of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Savchenko’s hopes for the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, for preventing the planned destruction of historic stone on Popovic Street, 6 in Lviv, in the UNESCO buffer zone. Sergey Ljowczyna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the negative social consequences of the increase in debt from salary payments. Jacob Besbach to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget, Cabinet of Ministers Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't hear well in the hall, you have headphones. If you use them, it's a very good sound. Jacob Besbach to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the provision of funding for a medical facility. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the social tension caused by the decommissioning of gas due to the debt of a boiler that provided central heating and hot water services to residents of the 109th Microregion in the city of Poltava, and the lack of action by the city authorities to implement the planned routes to prepare for the heating season. Oksana Biloz to the Minister for Temporaryly Occupied Areas and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian External Intelligence Service on the use of appropriate measures to obtain the former prisoner status of ATO/OS participant and related financial compensation. Anatolia Denisenka to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Pavel Rosenk for the immediate resolution of the issue of delaying payments to Ukrainian citizens for hospital letters. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the need for prediction in the state budget on. A year of funding for the acquisition of appropriate equipment for state agencies for the scanning of passports. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to ensure gas supply and full operation of central heating systems in the cities of Gyrska and Zlote of the Posajan district of Lugansk during the heating period 2019/2020. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent action to prevent restrictions on the supply and distribution of electricity to the production units of the State-owned enterprise First-Major Coal. Valeria Pisarenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the annulment of the decision to pass a state-qualified examination for students in the medical field by IFOM evaluation system. Eduard Matviychuk, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Attorney-General of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Ministry of Public Health of Ukraine, Ministry of Public Health of the Ministry of Public Health for Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre, Odessa District Public Administration for the consideration of the collective appeal of residents of the municipality of the Odessa district of the Odessa region for the initiatives of Raisa Halak for the provision of appropriate assistance, the use of appropriate response measures, the comprehensive protection of citizens' rights and compliance with the rules of law. Igor Guza to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to finance the payment of salaries to teachers of the city of Volodymira-Wolinski in order to implement the relevant government decrees. Igor Goose to the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association's board of directors on the need to re-route the train with the "Dalm-Zdobonov" connection. Mikoli Lušnjak, head of the government of the public shareholders association of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, on the tender of the Stock Exchange Company "The Crushing" 19T-077 "38420000-5 – Devices for measuring the cost, level and pressure of liquids and gases (Equipment for measuring the costs of natural gas)". Andrija Nemirowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of Operations of the United Nations Force in Donbas, Minister for Interim and Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Service of Ukraine, with exceptional circumstances in Kiev regarding illegal arms and ammunition circulation and anti-military activities with civilians. Romana Macola to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the use of measures to address the issue of compensation for differences in tariffs to the Polish water and sanitation company from the state or local budgets for all employees of the insurance service. Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for a bus stop on Carbisheva Street in the right - hand district of Kyiv. Andrea Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for not allowing the construction of a 24-story residential complex on the site of a swimming pool on Kurnatovsky Street, 20 in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Anna Romanova to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the preservation of objects of archaeological heritage in the Chernigiv region. Anna Romanov to the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine for the creation of favourable conditions for the development of tourism and the diversification of tourism flows. Vasil Gulyav to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the need to take steps to free Ukrainian sailors who are members of the Ruta tanker crew who have been held in Libyan prison for two years without a basis. Romana Macola to the first deputy head of the Hmelnick district government to provide the necessary medical care to a citizen named Mikola Grami, a resident of the village of Kotelenko Shepetov district of Hmelnicke district. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the continuing application by the Pension Fund of Ukraine of paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Cabinet of Ministers Orders of 21 February 2018 No 103, declared unlawful and invalid in court. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, is temporarily acting as Ukraine’s Minister of Health for the long-term violation of the right of Cyberman I.V. for individual housing because of his severe illness, manipulations were made in the form of a debt queue and its persistence for 14 years, lack of action by the authorities, social services in its protection and housing. Sergey Kaplina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the roadside violations that led to the collapse of the car under the asphalt in the Poltava City Garden. Victoria Ptašnik to the head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on Antimonopoly Legislation during the acquisition of the ZIK channel. Vadim Krivohatka to First Deputy Head of the State Service of Ukraine on geodesy, cartography and cadastre on unconstitutional recognition of Cabinet Order No. 413 of 7 June 2017. Vadim Krivohatka to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the possible abuse of office and failure to comply with the legal requirements of the Ukrainian national deputy as deputy to the head of the Primorski District Court of Odessa by Vadim Kovalenko. Alexander Wilkull to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of the child's right to housing: the development and implementation of a clear mechanism of action by public authorities, local self-government authorities in the event of a threat to the child's right to housing. Dmitry Lubinz to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Kistion on the absence of a train stop at train station Karan No.84 Mariupol Kiev. Dmitri Lubinz to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repair of the road to the general use of local value T-05-12 Volnovaha-Boykovsky. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the need to postpone the cuts of financial institutions in local government administrations. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the need for material assistance for the treatment of Viktor Shegda, 2013 born, disabled. Sergey Leschchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the initiation of a pretrial investigation into the fact of the massive and permanent failure of the elevators in the capital’s apartment buildings. Igor Aleksiev to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the improper maintenance of the area at the intersection of Kosenka Street and the Hauptow Strait in the city of Kiev. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ensuring the use of the Ministry of Health in Ukraine of urgent measures aimed at developing and approving the procedure for determining the cost of medical care given to a foreigner or a stateless person who is temporarily present in Ukraine, a health care facility that has provided him. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the legal and regulatory status of the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on the application of anatomical material to a human being, as well as on the state of readiness of the Single State Information System for its proper functioning. Oleg Osuhovski to the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance for Housing Grants for those affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Igor Aleksiev to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the maintenance of road cover in the Podilj district of Kiev. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of additional funds from the State budget to cover the payment of salaries to officials of the budgetary institutions of the region of Ivano-Frankov. Ruslan Solvar to the head of the Kyiv Regional Road Administration of the Open Shareholders Company, the National Shareholder Company, the head of the General Administration of the Ministry of State in Kiev, on the verification of violations of legislation concerning the work of the Kyiv Regional Road Administration, the Open Shareholder Company, the State Shareholder Company, the Ukrainian Motorways Company. Ruslan Solvar to the head of the Ukrainian Railroad Shareholders' Association for the prevention of baseless liquidation or reorganization of the negotiable Fast 2 depot and the release of dozens of employees from their posts. Constantine Jarinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures aimed at protecting the constitutional rights of students in higher medical schools to acquire education and choose a profession, as well as the cessation of violations of the rule of law in the implementation of the international medical examination (IFOM). Igora Lucenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine for the restoration of the license of the Dublin Central District Hospital for purchase; storage; transportation; use; destruction of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, precursors. Igora Lucenka to the head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine for the full verification of the declarations of the Rector of the National Technical University of Ukraine, "Kyiv National Institute of Technology Igor Sikorsky" by Mikhail Sgurovsky for 2018. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the State Service of Ukraine for geodesy, cartography and cadastre for the transfer of land to the municipal property of the Ljubljana United Territorial Society. Irina Konstankević to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, on the status of implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order "To mark 150th anniversary of the birth of the Forest of Ukraine (February 25, 2021)" No. 2286-VIII. Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, the State Audit Service of Ukraine, the Montenegrin Regional Public Administration on the need to refinance and restore the cultural heritage of the Holy George Church, which is located in the village of the city-type Sedniv of the Chernig region. Alexander Kirsch to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the non-payment of salaries to the employees of the Communal Enterprise "Hark thermal networks". Jury Levchenka is headed by the Kyiv City State Administration to bring about proper sanitation and the well - being of a neglected land area on Krasnodarska Street, 46 in the Shevchenkov district of Kyiv, which is in municipal property and is not transferred to use. Yurya Levchenka to the deputy head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the National Police in Kiev, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, Prosecutor of Kiev for the verification of violations of the constitutional rights of residents of the homes at the addresses of the city of Kiev, Lomonosova Street 71-B and 71-E, regarding the arbitrary construction in the instigation area at the given addresses. Ruslana Demczak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the State Service of Ukraine with extraordinary circumstances, Head of the Vinick district administration on the elimination of the consequences of an extraordinary natural situation in the villages of Kovalivka and the Land of Nemiriv Region of the Winnitsk Region. Ruslana Demczak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the amendment of the Ministry of Internal Affairs Order "On the approval of certain legal acts on the carriage of dangerous goods by road" No. 656 of 4 August 2018 on the obligation of carriers of dangerous goods to complete vehicles with sorbents and special means to quickly eliminate the potential consequences of emergencies. Valery Pisarenko to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the creation of a working group and the development of a single state strategy to combat drug abuse. Mary Ionova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of a state registry in the area of Ukrainian citizens who have been victims of sexual violence as a result of an armed conflict in eastern Ukraine. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development and implementation of State policy to prevent and combat sexual violence related to conflict and to bring Ukraine's legislation into line with international law in the area of criminal responsibility for crimes related to sexual violence in conflict situations. We finished reading the questions that came from the National Deputies. We also have a number of national MPs who are dissatisfied with their questions. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the Shurma People's Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u82	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. You know, the citizens of Ukraine, today, the "hour of questions to the government," you know, it's such a disgraceful phenomenon that's happening today in the executive and in the power of representation. So the executive power at the head of the Prime Minister is more likely to be taken over today by the election races, because on all news channels, when the Prime Minister speaks, they add: the leader of the party. And he doesn't come here today, and he doesn't really answer the questions. Worse. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's five of us in the hall, boys. I'm asking you to step aside. Well, I'm asking you very much. Five people, I didn't name the family. Five people in the hall, and they won't let it go. Apologize to the people. That is to say, in answering questions from the government today, there is still a brutal lie. I have raised the issue of gross violations and failure to comply with Ukrainian legislation by the officials of the Ministry of Health on more than one occasion. Well, if I don't have any more questions before Suprun, because a person with two passports, a person with no higher education, is completely involved in political activity right now, I have a question for those people who give official answers. Today, not only on my question, but also on the question of my colleague, Deputy Bezbach, on why the Ukrainian legislation is being violated, the Science and Technology Act (part four, paragraph 9): the conclusion of a contract with the expert, in this case cardiosurgeon Todur, director of the Institute, for the appointment of a contract. From this rostrum, the deputy minister of Covtonjuk is lying if it is soft to say that the treaty is concluded. Not locked up for today. Since January, a hundred percent of the support of the team has gone through all the special checks, all done after the contract has been concluded. No, they're pulling. Moreover, there is such a man as Deputy Minister Lynchevski, famous for the phrase "they'll all die because it's cancer," proposed the contract for six months. By law, you can offer a contract from one year to seven, at least for a year, and to this day. I tried to test the truth. Today Dr. Todurov is just in the operating room. You know, man's operating, he's fighting for his life every day, and he's not getting a contract. What I'm saying is, they're breaking the law, and they're going to get 21 final numbers, and they're all going to go away. I'm sorry that the Mantis proposed the bill "don't bother." And I would suggest otherwise: that people's deputies be allowed permission in case the government lies, fails to do so, from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, to say everything they can about them, because there is no other case of action on them. I'm sorry if this is all wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u83	Then somehow you can agree with Mrs. Mantis whether you want to hang out or not. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Leschchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u84	Dear Ukrainians, the honorable squires! Thank you. I am not satisfied with the answers to the questions regarding the situation on the vineyard’s residential estate, especially the local resident of Mrs. Jean Milutin. She said that there is no stadium and sports grounds in school No. 6, which is located on the residential area of the Vineyard. And in this context, it is necessary to bring to European standards the educational process in our school territory No. 6. But, as always, there is no money in the cities. There is money in the city for a half - billion - dollar bridge that cracks and cracks on the second day of exploitation. There's money in the city for all the pierre puzzles, but to do the kids, to do our future, of course, there's not enough resources for that. And so I repeat my call to the next Parliament. Now I'm traveling around the district in the 220s, and I hope to choose the right to represent the Podil district in the next parliament. If I do, I'll be the first to raise the election in Kiev. The city authorities have discredited themselves and have used total mistrust, and, frankly, the same curses and matterns mentioned by the previous speaker in this rostrum. Regrettably, the city lost control completely, and unfortunately, the city’s authorities are thinking only of their own demands: the construction of a total fraud and how to survive the years after their escape from the Kyiv hills. So the new election in Kiev, the new election of Mayor Kiev already this year, is to be followed by five peaceful years without electoral strife. And I still have a minute. I want to address the responsible staff of the President's Administration from the rostrum. Now more than 100 protestors have gathered under the President’s Administration, who have come from far away. They came from Odessa, from Ishmael, from Black Sea, from Odessa. They are the coworkers of our seaports, who, in turn, are fired from their jobs by the ruling corruption officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It's all over Ukraine's ports now that there's been a change of what's called security forces, i.e. it's the security of the seaports. The Alpha Security company, which is associated with one of Mr. Kuprance’s IMF leaders, is being replaced by state security guards at seaports. The people who worked, who got low wages, they're freed to get a new viewer to sit on these streams. That's why I'm addressing the Vice-Presidents of the President's Administration. Is this Mr. Timoshenko, or is this Mr. Kostuk, please go to the protestors to talk to these people who came across the Ukraine to talk about how they're being cleansed in the name of corruption. And this Kupranca has, unfortunately, already appointed the new President of Zelenski to the anti-corruption council of the President of Ukraine. It is unacceptable that such people should be judged, not appointed to anti-corruption advisory bodies with the President of Ukraine. So once again, I would like you to come out to the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have two more announcements. A statement came from the national deputy Maxime Chicken. In accordance with this application, in accordance with article 63, part III, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Chicken Maxime Pavlovich, from the MP's "Peter Prashenka Block" party. Another announcement we have is the announcement by the national deputy Eugenia Murayeva. And according to this statement, in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Murayev Evlodimirovich into the political party's opposition bloc. We've exhausted our work in the MP section. I'd like to announce a recess right now. Call it a 15-minute break. And then, according to the Rules, we're going to have a break of 12 hours for 30 minutes. So that we can start work at the Miscellaneous with the deputies at 12 o'clock in 30 minutes. Thank you. Then I'll meet you after the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Ukrainians! There is another statement by a national MP who is not satisfied with the answer to his parliamentary address. And then, three minutes later, we're recording for discussion at the Miscellaneous. Please, People's Deputy Krivohatko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u87	Dear people of Ukraine, dear colleagues! I'm forced to address you on the grounds that I'm not satisfied with the Director of the NABU's response to my request regarding the assassination of the prosecutor of Zaporozhye County and his deputies, during which they were trying to acquire an apartment that belongs to the community. The cost of an apartment is about 900,000 dollars. As the director of the NABU replied. In his reply, he said that in the registers of ownership, this apartment had not yet been registered as the property of the prosecutor. And what's done is all the documentation is prepared for this apartment to be privatized by a man who doesn't need it, who doesn't need it, it doesn't need it, it's completely the deputy of Novak. Novak gave such an answer, a formal note that there is no record of property rights in the real estate register of the privatization by Voząkom of this apartment. So there isn't. But there is already a decision made by the Zaporez City Council, which blessed this facility and left only to hold a session. And I'm deeply convinced that this apartment could be better given to an ATO member, a multi-child family, an orphan child, rather than a procurator who's already been hanged by these apartments, boats, yachts and Mercedes by the ears. So this is a totally illegal device, which, unfortunately, is covered up by the NABU. Romanov is actually a unique person. For three years now, he has been allowing himself to rob the Zaporozhye region, with the former governor of the district of Zaporez. Hundreds of millions of dollars are stolen from the budget, including hemodialysis, and insulin purchases, and waste materials on hemodialysis, equipment, and ambulances. Chief Doctor Shishka, hanged by criminal charges, probably a dozen of them, but there is no reaction from the prosecution. The prosecution has committed more crimes for today than those they should persecute. She herself has become a planter, such a mafioso structure, which covers the criminal business in Zaporozhye, which has all over its fate, which is closely intertwined with criminal groups, and there is absolutely no response from the Attorney General's Office, despite dozens of appeals by citizens of the Zaporozhye region, to the parliamentary requests of MPs who can't look at it all calmly. And I want to talk to Lucenko again. Yuri Vitaliovich, please use the last months of your cadence or day, there, in order to bring order to history as one fact as a person who, in principle, fights corruption, rather than covering the criminals who spread corruption around the regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u88	Thank you. And we're moving on to the discussion at the Miscellaneous. People's deputies, please prepare for the recording. Remember rule number one: Press your button. Please hold the recording. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Kiskar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! My speech is directly related to the election process in 147 districts in Mirgorod. We are, in our own example, like the team of Kitten, ready to confirm that we know what to do. The foundation for our successful work in the district is the Opišnian United Territorial Society, headed by Mikola Raznik, my one - party member in the People’s Russia of Ukraine. And as of today, there are no problems with asphalting in the Opishnian community, and the CNAP is already being built and will soon be opened, and additional equipment is already being transferred to school to form a school space under the New Ukrainian School programme, and tenders are already under way for new medical equipment, and it is already planned to arrange the exit from the Poltava-Zynkov-Hodzic main road. We invite Stewkow, Kirilo-Ganiyevka and Boat Fedorovka to the Opishnian community, together we will be more successful. We are ready to demonstrate our effectiveness and success in the village of Velika Pavlovka Zynkowski district, where Jaroslav Prejetenec, the head of the village and my trusted person, works successfully as a leader, and we have already completed our asphalting, complete asphalting, and seal repair in the village of those roads that belong to the rural community. Our philosophy is not an increase in the land bank in its own production, as my opponent says and does, and this is the creation of jobs. And in Velika Pavlovec and I, together with Jaroslav, together with an investor, have opened 32 jobs in a sewing shop, for the first time in Ukraine there are jobs opening up in rural areas. And we'll do it in the future. So we're talking about the restoration of a brick combination in the Cubans, we're talking about the creation of a milk-cooling plant in the Cherkastians, the restoration of the Rechetilovka sytroche, the creation of a utility from the road farm in Zynkov. We're talking about further collaboration with Astorta and Niebulon from the in-depth processing of grains, we're already looking for funds to expand the possibilities of kindergarten in the Great Soroceans and create several jobs there. We are talking about the fact that the TKE and the Mirgorod canal are to belong to the world community. On a national level, we know that we need to return the nightlight tariff. What we're talking about is that we need to organize work with land outside of populated areas, and communities have the right to manage it fully. We're talking about the return of excise fuel to the budgets of the united communities, we're talking about the cost of the inheritance process, including, of a dead inheritance, we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u90	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u91	We're talking about the upgrade, and actually the increase, the legal increase in wages for local self-government workers, because now this wage is just increasing by giving bonuses, we're talking about creating a community budget control system, that control system is going to be online. And we're talking about creating a real system of multi-family buildings and social systems. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u92	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the people's representative of Kuprienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u93	Thank you. Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. 1979, I am a student of the 9th grade of secondary school, studying the economic geography of Ukraine. 68 billion cubic feet [68 billion cu m] of gas Ukraine won, and it recovered in a year. Where did it go? Independence began -- every year less and less in the people of Ukraine, and more and more in the pockets of the oligarchs. Is our Ukrainian gas enough for our people? That's enough with the tail too. The Constitution tells us that Nadra belongs to the people. Ladies and gentlemen, give to the people what is at their price, not at any cost, but at a price, as in the store, 20 percent. How much is it? Let's mention the case of the runaway Destroyer. Four state experts - 1800-2400 price. Well, give me 3,000! No, they say we're going to give you eight. And then it goes, "Naftogaz of Ukraine," today they asked a question, and Lyszko asked a question, Oleg Valeriyovich, and I asked a question. Dear Kabmin, you created this structure, you planted Koboleva there -- 2 million dollars of wages on one working day. Where did you see that in Ukraine — 2 million dollars? We've paid for a bonus of 1.5 billion dollars. Anyone who hasn't heard or can't count is a camomile with a trailer if they're braided. And we say, "When are they going to give it back?" - "Well, ask him." The master doesn't know how to spin a dog's tail. Who do you think you are, officials of honor? Who are you kidding, who? People. Why? Because while people are quiet, they're patient. Twice, Ukraine has shown that such authority will not be tolerated and silenced. Fourth year and 14th, are we going to wait for 24th? So in the 4th there was a peaceful protest, in the 14th, the Celestial 100 fell down, the war began, the blood, the death, the war came into the country. Are we waiting for the 24th? No, we won't wait. We will come to these elections, we will choose those here fighting for the people, for justice, who are the people's voices here, not those who sing in the square. And if you'll excuse me, I'd like you to present my statement as a parliamentary request to President Zelenski. Give me 30 seconds. To President Zelensky's request to stop the Cabinet of Ministers ruling that sets dragon's, cosmic gas prices for the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u94	Thank you. I have to inform you that in order to address the President of Ukraine, we need 150 votes in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. That's why you can form it, but it's going to take a vote in the House. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u95	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear Ukrainians, dear friends! The work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call is being completed, and this is a reason to summarize activities in the walls of this Parliament. I won't brag and say that everything I wanted to do and achieved was done. That would be a lie. So, speaking of my work in Parliament as a member of the Supreme Council from the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, I will be self - critical and just, and I will begin by saying that it has failed to convince an active government to renew the funding of the scheme for the granting of extended government loans to young families and single young citizens for the acquisition and reconstruction and construction of their homes. In spite of the number of requests made and requests made by the Radical Party to the government, no copies have been allocated for this program since 2015. Ukraine recently celebrated the Youth Day. Of all the TV channels, from all the media, government officials have talked about how they love and how they care about and care about young people’s issues and problems, how they feel and try to help them, but they are constantly hampered by either a difficult economic situation or a difficult political situation. Meanwhile, 80 percent of the 13 million Ukrainians who have moved abroad in search of a better share are young people. The main reason for young people to leave is the lack of jobs and their own housing and, as a result, the absence of new families and the birth of children. That is why Oleg Láska’s Radical Party is fighting in parliament for the purpose of working in Ukraine instead of shutting down businesses, developing its own production, and creating conditions for young people. Youth politics is a top priority in the activities of our political power, and unlike government, we do not put off important and strategic decisions for better times. I mean, for the first time since Ukraine's independence, an adjustment to the budget initiated by the radical party has allocated funds for the repair, reconstruction and construction of micro-sport complexes in Ukraine this year. That is the way we can remedy the shameful health situation in Ukraine, which is common to children and adults. Also, our initiatives, which deal with the ban on changing the target destination of land that is allocated to sports infrastructure, will allow you to preserve and prevent the construction and destruction of existing sports infrastructure, to build business centres, commercial buildings, gas stations, and to continue to operate stadiums, managers, swimming pools and sports palaces. Dear colleagues, the future of our children depends on you and me. And to pretend that someone has to do it for us, that's the first thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u96	30 seconds, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u97	This is tantamount to betraying people and, above all, betraying yourself. And I want to go to the next Parliament. I wish you knowledge and wisdom to achieve goals in the name of Ukraine and Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u98	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laska, 6 minutes' notice. A colleague gave him the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u99	At meetings with the directors of the International Monetary Fund in Toronto, Zelensky promised to sell the Ukrainian countries, to give them to international corporations for free. Foreign latifundists will not care about the fertility of our land, will not be responsible for the social sector: hospitals, kindergartens, schools, FAPs, lighting, roads. They don't care what happens to our children. First, they'll buy pies for nothing, then they'll burn the soil out of technical crops, they won't stick to it, they won't provide for it, and in the pursuit of high yields, they'll use killer herbicides and other banned chemicals. This will take several years, but in time the wells will be poisoned by pesticides, in groundwater. Grass in pastures will become a burning straw. The bees will die, the cows will breed nowhere, and the beautiful rivers will be transformed into a fishless desert. Such examples already exist, and such a future is being prepared for our village and for our country, Zelenski, and with its policy of selling land to foreigners. That would be an incredible price for selling land to foreigners if we lose this battle: dead rivers, poisoned wells, cattle without pastures and children, Ukrainian children without a future. This is exactly the kind of future that foreign latifundists and corporations want for our children and grandchildren. Me and my team don't want to. That's why we're fighting for a Ukrainian peasant and a Ukrainian farmer. For a Ukrainian peasant to cultivate the land on which he lives, where he grew up. It is he who is to rule over Ukrainian ropes, not future sellers and villains, whose soul is rotten, and the breast of our best black man. That's why we're choosing subsidies for farmers and singles to provide them with as cheap loans as possible for the purchase of agricultural products, favourable conditions for renting rations through the State Land Bank, which will buy land at market high prices, direct and fair subsidies for livestock. Grants, not to Argoholdings, not to oligarchs, who then buy helicopters, yachts, and airplanes, but to singles, ordinary peasants, ordinary farmers. Not to the Latifundindians and foreigners, but to our own native peasants. Because our people will care for the earth, because our people love their home land, appreciate every hundred of it, love every one of the hectares, because they know that this land has fed the Ukrainians for thousands of years and will feed for thousands of years. We're going to force the state to control the use of land in order to leave anything to its offspring. We, the Lalashka team, will fight for our Ukrainian land until our last breath! We will save Ukrainian land for future generations who will live in a rich and rich Ukrainian village, in abundance, and in happiness. Ukrainians, these elections are a battle for the earth, and we will definitely win it. Glory to Ukraine and glory to the Ukrainian village!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u100	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u101	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Mikhail Papiev, "The Opposition Platform for Life." You know, very correct words have just been heard. And I am sure that Ukrainian citizens have to know the truth that is happening today in a country owned by the Ukrainian people. Because according to article 13 of the Constitution, Nadra is the property of the Ukrainian people. And what they said for their own gas is a gas that belongs to the Ukrainian people. And we have to explain to this Kobolev that they are actually making money today and building their corruption schemes on the property of the Ukrainian people. This is a completely different article according to the Criminal Code. With regard to the earth. The earth, too, belongs to the Ukrainian people. And today we need to continue the moratorium on the sale of land. And another very important question. Well, it's the middle of the year. In fact, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in July, they were looking at the state of implementation of the State Budget of Ukraine. Please tell me, even though one official today said that in fact, 10 percent of the government budget is not implemented today? That today, if we get out of the numbers that we have, we have a deficit in the spending portion of the state budget in the fall, in September it's going to be 100 billion dollars. I have a question: is it honorable, and on whose account, let's put it this way, frankly, is the state budget under way today? Let's see, 10 percent is not done with any customs. What's he talking about? That the election was today, and all the government in the Cabinet of Ministers was being smuggled. Contraband flows go into their own pockets today, not into the state treasury. And I'm confident that we're going to have to do the first thing that we have to do, is in accordance with the Ukrainian Law of Temporary Investigations Commissions to create the commission of inquiry and find out where the state budget funds went? That's the first question. The other one. The interim commission of inquiry should be on the NAC of Naftogaza Ukraine, after which. You know what you promised us in the 2020 program, and now the reduction is going to be self-sustaining. And today we must demand the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have just watched 94 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, where it is clearly written that if the President of Ukraine has not returned the law for re-examination within a specified period of 15 days and the term has not been re-examined, the law is deemed to be approved by the President of Ukraine and has to be signed and officially published. We require the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to sign the TSC Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u102	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u103	sign the Law on TSK (Paruby is obliged to do so) and put the Voice of Ukraine in public. This law is now in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine, a law that is considered approved by the President of Ukraine. And it's under this law that we're going to need control functions to renew the Supreme Council and restore the trust of the Ukrainian national deputies, the trust of the Ukrainian people in our institution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u104	I invite you to the floor of the Romanov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u105	Dear friends, dear colleagues, dear people of Ukraine! I am again addressing everyone with such a proposal that Ukraine needs to develop its tourism industry urgently, because every year we are losing billions of money to our economy just because Ukrainians are going to rest in Turkey, in Egypt, in other countries, by strengthening the economy of their countries. I want to say that the Ukrainian tourism flow has dropped twice since 2014. And not only is it because Ukraine has started war and Russian propaganda claims that Ukraine is dangerous, but it is because Ukraine is one of the world’s most closed nations today. Why? Because in order to enter Ukraine, 126 citizens of the world are required to receive a Ukrainian visa. This procedure is fairly corrupt and bureaucratic. For example, citizens of wealthy countries such as Australia, New Zealand, should also receive a Ukrainian visa, even though most countries in the world have no visa. Also, a Ukrainian visa is twice as expensive as a Schengen visa and is much more difficult to obtain than a Ukrainian visa. Next. Since 2019 our Ministry of Foreign Affairs has cancelled a very convenient foreign visa procedure because when a foreigner arrives and can receive a visa immediately, of course, corrupt procedures have been removed. What's going on now? Now it's like an electronic visa procedure has been introduced, but it doesn't work, because all the times of getting this visa are getting worse and worse. The applicant who dropped the application doesn't actually know what's happening right now. which is the stage of consideration of this application. Next. Very often foreign services hold foreign tourists here on their way to Ukraine in so - called rooms and force them to undergo a demeaning interrogation procedure. And please tell me, what image, which hospitable state will Ukraine be like after all these procedures? In my own experience, border guards find more questions for wealthy foreign tourists and investors than for potential migrants. Thus, even today, tourism organizations, as well as medical organizations that are interested in foreign patients, will write a petition to the President of Ukraine, where they will offer steps from visa liberalisation, to facilitate entry into our country, which will allow for a short period of time to increase the tourist flow twice as well as attract.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u106	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u107	And they will also allow you to attract billions of dollars into the Ukrainian economy and improve the image of our country. We've written these addresses to Dusty now and again, to the government of Groysman, to the minister of foreign affairs, but they haven't responded at all. And the way the new authorities respond to the data, it's very easy to implement, it's going to become a lactus paper of the new government, and how interested they are in the hospitality image of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u108	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u109	Valeria Zarzko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Dear Ukrainians, look, today is the Friday in the predominant factions sector. Where are all these people who put their hand to lead the country to an era of poverty? And look, please, at the Radical Party sector, which is in full stock on Friday, headed by the faction leader Oleg Lášk. Feel the difference. Feel the difference between different national MPs and factions. I was asked on the air yesterday, which is the most important lesson for me in the Supreme Council. I replied very confidently that the nicest lesson I've ever learned here is the lesson of being on the team. It's a lesson in being on a team that can do anything because it's grouped, strong, because it understands what it's doing, and it's willing to work for Ukraine and the Ukrainians. This is the team that can bring about the end of the poverty era that was promised to us during the electoral period. On another air yesterday, I was asked if there were many 300 million dollars to transport the AP, which had already become the O.P., the President's Office, to a new building. I asked whose money it was. If it's Ukrainian taxpayers' money, there's a lot of where we can spend this money to radically change government policy. Because today, unfortunately, there is a failed state policy for supporting families. I mean both long - term families, young families, and families that raise children with limited means. Because none of them are helped by the state today. Just think of the monthly care of the child as 800 dollars. 800! In this case, the judges, prosecutors, officials receive salaries that are cosmic today for Ukraine, which exceed the level of pay for such positions in the same Europe, where the subsistence minimum is much higher, where the standard of living is much higher. But poor Ukraine today pays off officials and does not return face - to - face to people, Ukrainian families, who are the future. Because today people don't know how to count kids, how to study kids, it's summer, how to send kids to rest. And then September comes, and we're going to have to get the kids to school, and people don't understand how they're going to do it with space payments for a utility. We demand that the authorities publish a comprehensive program of State support for families so that people can understand how they will live in this country, the future of children. We demand a radical change of state policy so that the state becomes responsible, at last, and that we wait for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u110	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u111	And so that we could finally wait for the promised end of the poverty era, and finally the Ukrainian families could see their own future in their own country rather than go abroad in search of a better destiny. We demand that Ukrainians live in Ukraine and see their future here so that they can see the welfare and future of their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u112	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Lensky. Lozov's national deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u113	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. The Nobel Prize winner Herman Hesse describes how in the Middle Ages the plague came to be known. "We walked the road and we heard a terrible mad roar from which the breath was grasping. These are cow revelries that no one could find, because the whole village is dead because the plague has come." Not only in German’s books did the plague come to Ukraine. And cows also roared when millions of Ukrainians, not knowing how to survive on their God - given land without knowing how to feed their families without knowing how to buy drugs when the lame, not knowing how to teach their children, went to search for a better fate abroad. Often with higher education and hardworking because they did not know how to survive. Yes, of course, every citizen's right is to leave. We are a free state, and we live in a free world. But most of those who left could not find themselves on their own land, in such a rich country, where such hardworking people, where such land, are black people who are no one in the world. Where rivers, seas, lakes, forests, amber, metal, gas, oil. We have everything. Why do people in such a rich country live so poor, go abroad, and die, and there will be no cows in the village soon? Because we didn't have 30 years of normal power. Dear people, on March 31st and April 22, you were again deceived. Those who had been harassing the state for 30 years had come in the same way as in the pockets of every Ukrainian family. Look, the disadvantages of Janukovic's regime today in positions, Russian separatists are appointed, the oligarchy regime is completely formed in the state, and everything you've been promised turns out to be the real president who was joking, and it turns out that "I owe you nothing." All must be the one who rules the state. And, folks, today you have the last chance to protect your right to a decent life, so there will be a large faction in this House of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska -- the only Ukrainian opposition, the only national opposition, the only political iron patriotic team that won't let you rob, which will protect your right to a decent salary and pension, which will fight every day of God's life for the Ukrainian to have a job, pay, confidence in tomorrow, which won't give these moncursions without a family or tribe to cancel the Language Act that will protect Ukraine. From you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u114	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u115	It's up to you today. And I have to get back to where I started. Because many people travel for seasonal earnings during the summer, it is unfortunate that the election will have a low turnout. Dear people, if you want to have your powerful defender in Parliament, find any opportunity to come to the elections, support Laska, support the Ukrainian opposition, support our Radical Party and give back to those who want to sell land, sell language and sell Ukraine. The glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u116	I invite you to speak to the national deputy of Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u117	Thank you, Oksana Ivanovna. Leonid Jemetz, city of Kiev In fact, starting with the situation in our district, there are 221 districts — Pechersky, Shevchenkovsky, Solomonian. Actually, yesterday, one of our volunteers was attacked by a gunman. He had unknown individuals who had presented themselves as well-governance agents, who took away the agitation that was to be distributed, and disappeared into the subway "Klovska" and then in an unknown direction. In fact, at night these agitation materials began to appear in completely unintelligible places — on marble-like beautiful walls, on garbage cans and in other places that no candidate would have chosen for agitation for himself. So I'm going to go to the electorates of this district and any people who are going to witness the stickers on the windows, on the cars or anywhere, except those who are specially designed for this. These are on every building, these are special notice boards or temporary construction sites, such as construction fences, actually, which, after a while, will all be taken down equally. This is where our volunteers are going to be doing the agitation. All the other places are what's used to provoke, they're criminals. Please contact law enforcement immediately, know that this is used as "black" technologies to avoid, well, meaningful discussions about what the future of Ukraine should be, what it takes to do. And this is supposed to be a discussion, a debate between any candidates, because, well, a Ukrainian citizen is entitled to a conscious choice. And when black technology is used, it's just an attempt at people to steal it in one way or another. The second question I'd like to raise is, well, thank President Volodymyr Zelenski for supporting my initiatives. Two of my bills have been officially announced by the President. The first is criminal responsibility for buttoning, because the norm is in the Constitution, and there is no responsibility for it. Six months ago, I offered to put this in jail, because it's an extremely dangerous crime for society that causes much more harm than any shoplifting, and for shoplifting, even a packet of Greeks, there's no responsibility, and for buttoning, there's no responsibility. And the third call to citizens, and please remember, this Thursday 11 will be the vote for the open election lists, for the Electoral Code, remember those deputies who will come, vote and those who will not vote and pretend that they did not come just on a business day because they were busy with something else. This is their conscious position, a position that aims to avoid the fulfillment of their promise -- the introduction of open electoral lists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u118	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u119	a tool that will deprive corruption of the opportunity to go to Parliament. Those of the 11 on the next Thursday will not come and vote in favour of open electoral lists, want to preserve corruption, want to save the opportunity through corruption to cheat people and take away their right to choose, want to take the future to Ukraine, and we have this future to Ukraine to give. Follow the vote of 11 on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u120	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Krivohatka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u121	Good afternoon, Ukrainians! Honestly, I don't understand how party corruption is different from major. But that's not what I'm talking about. On June 7, 17th, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted Decree No. 413, which made it impossible or significantly more difficult to obtain land on a free basis, namely 2 hectares for private agriculture, as well as the land that was rightly promised to the ATO soldiers. A scheme was made, and only after that was made. At the end of the quarter, auction sales were allowed to pay 25 percent. I am grateful to those national deputies who supported my initiative and signed the constitutional application. On June 25, 19th, unfortunately, two years later, the court, the Constitutional Court, recognized this ruling as unconstitutional. Unconstitutional, unlawful. But over the past two million acres [2 million ha] of land was stolen from the Ukrainians. In Zaporozhye, only 10 percent of ATO participants were legally authorized to receive these 2 hectares. I would like the government to take immediate action today, to take immediate part, and so that the participants of the ATO in these two or three months will be able to get the land. It's not an easy procedure. But for today, I'm going to inform everyone who comes to the Holdgeokadastr, and they're going to be told that only 25 percent is possible, only 25 percent after the auction. This is not true today. Since June 25, this decree does not exist, and all who have the right and desire to get the land can apply to the State Department to write a statement. And no excuses from these fraudsters who have acquired millions of dollars in bribe sales to banish contracts for bribes that already have thousands of acres of land in their possession, all of these short answers that only under Decree 413, only after 25 percent, they don't work the next day. And there is no reason not to betray this land. In general, the Dergeokadastr is probably the very criminal organization that is corrupt after medicine, and therefore I have great hope that the government that will be formed will bring order in this structure to the people who are decent. I don't know where to take them, it's a difficult situation; but I have a great hope that it will finally be there. Because I agree with that. Today another is a disease. In Zaporozhye region, 40,000 acres [40,000 ha] of pastures! It's broken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u122	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u123	To the units, to the units of entrepreneurs, and man today cast the cow into this trap. There's a ban on this field, and tomorrow it's out there. They're driving out of there. The profitability of milk production for today is zero because yesterday it was possible to cut grass, and today it belongs to John, Peter, the oligarch who planted the sunflower there. This is a very serious problem that needs to be solved immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u124	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kosheliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u125	Alona Košeljeva, Oleg Láška Radical Party. Dear Chairman, distinguished Ukrainians, fellow national deputies! On the other hand, from this high rostrum, I want to draw attention to the problem of more than 2,000 internally displaced ATO participants who need housing. Today, during the "hour of questions to the government" she addressed the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Paul Rosenck, with the question of when and how the situation would be resolved. According to a response, the government directed $40 million to the Ministry of Social Policy to grant subsidies from the state budget to local budgets for the payment of money for the purpose of obtaining housing for internally displaced persons. Yet, these costs are clearly not enough to provide for existing needs. So the government created an appropriate commission on this issue. Internally displaced ATO participants from Luhansk, Donetsk regions and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, who were among the first to defend the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, and as a result were forced to leave their homes, because of the indifference of the authorities, they announced an uninterrupted campaign of hunger right now under the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. From the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, I publicly appeal to Kabmin to provide internally displaced ATOs with housing, and I warn that on the way to solving this problem, I do not create additional administrative bureaucracy, additional administrative barriers in the form of the provision and requirements of various forms of help and support. The Radical Party faction stood and the next assembly will also fight for the rights of Ukrainians. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank those fellow MPs who supported the leader's initiative from the Radical Party of Oleg Lalach for holding an extraordinary meeting of the 11th Supreme Council and to consider a bill on the prevention of sexual violence against children. I'm surprised by the skeptic response of individual colleagues to the words "chemical castration," "pedophile," or the timing of the question. According to official statistics, nearly 5,000 social crimes against children occur each year. Attention, children are children, not adults. Consider that every year, at every step of the way, our children are in danger. And if you could imagine for a moment a child who was at the scene of the victim, I think there would be no room left for sarcasm at all. Dear colleagues, I urge all of us to unite together around this very important issue. These are our children, this is the future of our nation, and taking care of them is our duty with you. I urge you to find time and come to the next meeting on July 11. We have to make these very important decisions, these very important legislative initiatives for the safety of our children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u126	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Lechchenka. Colleagues, journalists, I address. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues and journalists on the balcony, you can hear very much in the hall. There's a lot to hear in the hall. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u127	Yes, thank you, dear Ukrainians. Today's performance in "The Different" is dedicated to a topic that doesn't come down from the newspapers, the Internet or the TV channels all week long. All this week, we've been seeing activists, our bright Ukrainian citizens fighting a rematch, fighting against trying to return to Ukraine, andrija Klava, who was trying to register as a candidate. They fight against trying to repeal the Law on Illustration. And at this very moment, what are we seeing? We're seeing crocodile tears, we're seeing armbreaks, we're seeing some confusion on the part of the person who's been doing this for five years -- sabotage of the Book of Illustration, the return of all regions to power, the removal of any of them, and so on. Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, it turns out, now supports the illustration. And what he did at the time when, as President, he appointed a eloquent prosecutor, for example, Walendyuk, or when he appointed a distinguished associate of the Tereshuk National Police, who personally sent Berkut to Midan during Maidan and said that they were on their way to Kiev, or the head of the Kiev Tax Department. Or another story. Turns out, Kluev is our rematch, this is the return of the regionals and so on. That's not what anyone's arguing with. But it was Dusty who allowed it. Because the Supreme Court, which adopted the decision, was formed by the powder itself. And it was Dusty who did everything he could to ensure that the public's voice, when unfair judges were stopped, was silenced so that those people who were dishonest would not fall; he would do anything to get them to the Supreme Court. Or look, for example, at the Central Election Commission. Who shaped it? I don't know. I don't know. I don't I took three years to get the footage. Remember, we haven't had a change in members of the Central Electoral Commission in three years. And now it turns out the Central Election Commission is bad. So who's responsible for this? The previous president is responsible. Or the criminal prosecution of Clovis. I personally inquired about the Clovis case. I'm on this case as a witness. I've been giving evidence, giving things evidence on this case. I know there's a crime in there! 200 million of our currency at course 8 was allocated from Ukraine's budget to support its own business. It's over. And with the Attorney General. Why does he not bring this matter to a logical conclusion? What's more, I'll tell you something else. When the investigators, despite the opposition and in spite of the sabotage of Lucenka, brought the documents to court for the trial of Kluviv, the judge refused to stand trial, Judge Burney, and for four months he even refused to hand over the documents to prosecutors and investigators who tried to convict Kliva for four months! What happened after that? The prosecutors left, filed a complaint against the judge. And it has not yet been considered by the Higher Council of Justice, which is also controlled by Dustenko for all years in power. So, dear Ukrainians, all that's going on right now is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u128	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u129	Dear Ukrainians, it's just an exhibition by the previous president who's spent his entire life trying to fight the Clovis. Perhaps he and Medvedchuk have fought in recent years? Although it was him and his Antimonopoly committee, and his board, and his judges that made all the necessary decisions for Medvedchuk -- growing TV channels, property, diesel fuel now he controls, propane-butane and so on, and so on. You don't have to cheat. It is Poshenko who is responsible for this rematch — Medvedchuk and Clovis.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u130	Savka National Deputy. [[B in m in s a l in]] Control? If we want to control someone, we need to first learn to control ourselves and our time. So if there's a three-minute rule, you have to bet on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u131	Thank you, ma'am. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Today we have a great holiday, in our country of Ukraine is the anniversary of the liberation of our territory, and in the name of the cities of Slovenia and Kramatorska. I would like to thank my brothers, friends who have done their sacred duty and are now doing their sacred work to protect our country. In addition, there is a leader of the Radical Party, who, in harmony with the soldiers in Slaviansk, set up a flag — the flag of Ukraine. This is Oleg Lazko. Dear friends, dear Ukrainians, are about to be elected to the Supreme Council by many politicians, who, from the rostrums, radio announcements, television, say about the sale of land, of our land, where our soldiers are six years old, protecting it, spilling their blood, giving their lives for their own, for our own land, God-given land to Ukraine. And at present, some politicians have made it clear that the first issue that will be discussed here in the Supreme Council, if they come to power, will be the issue of selling land to foreigners on our land. The Radical Party has spoken and will say that it will not allow it, and it will do so. So it is one possibility at present, dear Ukrainians, to protect us, to protect our territory, and to protect our home land. No, it's not. None of the politicians now, of the leaders, of the political party, claim, with the exception of the Radical Party, to protect the Ukrainian Armed Forces, who are not currently provided with housing. From this rostrum, it has just been reported that many military personnel who have returned to the mainland from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea have been in control for more than 20 years, without housing. So the first question that's going to stand in the Radical Party of Oleg Laska is housing, the social package for military personnel, raising money. That's the most important thing. So right now, as no military officer needs, and they deserve it from the people of Ukraine, from the leadership of the state to make them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u132	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u133	They felt worthy that their families, their families, would be protected. So here in the Supreme Council, we must do everything possible and impossible to protect and protect our homeland. The country will be Ukraine, the Ukrainian state language will be Ukraine. Praise the heroes! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u134	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the Shurma People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u135	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I would very much like to hear this subject from the people who came to power today, especially the President's Administration and President Zelenski himself. We are all young, and we are all people of an age of honor. And when we become respectable people, it is very rare that we are socially protected, very rarely that we are healthy, we have to get sick. Despite all the assurances from the current authorities, there is still an active power in medicine that there is not always enough funds and opportunities to heal fully. And this is what happened to a 63-year-old director who's been forced to go to Russia for money in recent years to pay for his wife's treatment. In fact, such as him, there are over 500,000 people in all of Ukraine who are going to this country to earn money. Before that, he worked at the Long live studio in Kiev, produced programs on the TET channel, and later worked on church journalism. This man's name is Oleg Sagan. After one of his trips to the Russian Federation, he was arrested for allegedly producing materials that called for the collapse of Ukraine. From the words of the detained man, his entire evidence base was flung and pushed. The arrest took place in January 2019, and this first event was in 2018, when people in camouflaged form with screams broke into the house again on the same subject. And since then, the court has applied a precautionary measure to him -- keeping him under guard, since then he's been in the SSO in the Hersonian region. He described conditions in the OSCE and in international organizations to advocates of terrible conditions, and he asked for attention to the fact that he had a sick woman. Fortunately, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has admitted that they violate the Constitution of the Code of Criminal Procedure for Preservation as a single precaution and today such persons can be kept in custody. On July 5, 2019, the national deputy from the Opposition Block, Alexander Dudenkov, at the commission and support of the Vadim Novinski faction, made a pledge, think of 80,000 dollars to change the precautionary action. Eighty thousand dollars! Today, he is free. Why am I addressing the Presidential Administration? To put an end to political persecution or political persecution in Ukraine in the future. I want to, or stop to, all people, regardless of political views.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u136	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u137	To put an end to the pressure on judges who have to make decisions. For 109, 110, 111 articles of the Criminal Procedure Code to be used or shown as a struggle for Ukraine’s territorial integrity. We must ensure the legality of our actions. If a person is charged, the court, the sentence, and the punishment. If there's no charge, if that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u138	Thank you. National MP Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u139	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, I also wanted to support all the previous speakers who spoke, especially John Ivanovich Savka, for the liberation of Kramator and Slavian. And, really, that's what these people who liberated are in the hall, and that's nice. And it is a pleasure that we would like to be as quick as possible as we can from the Russian invaders, from the Persian invaders, to liberate our whole Ukraine, and, indeed, to live under the peaceful heavens. And these problems that are in our country today, of course, would have been much smaller if it hadn't been for war. We know perfectly well that 40 percent of these problems are going to war today. And I'd really like us to, too. And to support our speaker, Andrey Paruba, so that today what he did, President Greensky today, the TSC Act, on the President's impeachment, should be signed. I understand that he must keep his electoral promises, and he must do so. But today, again, July 21st we go to the elections. Whatever we wish for our Parliament and whatever we wish for the new Parliament. Of course, our Parliament is first of all to adopt this electoral law, which is today. And I would very much like, as many speakers have said from the rostrum, for the number of national deputies to be reduced in this room. So it's not like the Constitution, 450, but 250-300 people's deputies. And perhaps if a national MP were to be attached to the district, it would be the same majority system. But what is happening today in the constituencies? You know, today's a full bribe. I'll say, my constituency, where 15 districts in Winnitzkin, where there are areas like Tulchin, Chargord, Chernivci, Tomaspil, Murovanokurilovci, ordinary people watching my work as a national deputy and all 12 of my opponents who are and are working in the constituency today. You know, it's all come down to the fact that people are already wearing eyeglasses, driving around the area and saying who doesn't see, but the points, let's give you everything, give you the different hats and stuff. You know, it's a terrible thing to look at. But I think people need to take these points, but they have to be distinguished, not by the corruption that they give you today, but for justice, for those who do something, for those who experience their district. There's a lot we haven't been able to do, but I'd really like us to be concerned about people and the next Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u140	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u141	where the price of milk should be increased, I was worried about every farmer, for every agricultural producer, at the price of agricultural production. Because we see beautifully that prices are falling, the price of milk should be not less than 8 dollars. After all, we can only see these queens in the Red Book. So I think the next Parliament should pay attention to all of this. And God will.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u142	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u143	People know that the Radical Party is the voice of the people, the voice of truth and the voice of justice in the Council. That's why I want to read you the lines from the Mails of the Village News, the voice of the Ukrainian citizens. Valentin Bulach of Chernigova writes about the ongoing robbery. "Corruption in Ukraine has reached its limits, criminal bourgeoisie has lost all judgment and measure. Sneaks, extortioners have invented another way to rob a defenseless people. The chiefs of the municipal office put people on nonexistence payments. It's not just robbery, it's dishonor, it's slander. I have suffered such abuse, too," writes Valentin Bullach. "A local power company demands payment of a lying debt. He always paid all the utility bills at the same time and to a copy, saving on food and medicine, not to mention shoes and clothes, and suddenly found himself in debt. They've been robbing the population of the previous President, and they're continuing for today." That's my countryman's bitter words from Chernigo's Valentine Bullach. Grigory Tretak of the village of Tarasovka Orszické region in Poltavščina writes: "I support the decision to bring the staff of the administration to a minimum. This must also be done in all district and district administrations, prosecutors and parliaments. Our country is the poorest in Europe, unless we can afford a huge state of state officials with high wages. No, of course not!".. Gregory Tretak of Poltavščina claims and is convinced that all Ukrainian citizens share his position. Alexy Predirius, village of Mala Bilozerka in the district of Zaporozhye Region, reports: "As the readers rightly write, the electorate unites one thing: we demand fair reforms. But by whom? From what contingent of the new parliament? The ones that were formed long ago under the Renaissance brand of non-blocking, away from NATO? They are already being applauded by the bloody Kremlin authorities. What, though, can the average electorate oppose the traitors who once again seek to take their place in parliament? We have to come to the precinct and make the right choice, by conscience, not by Greek." Writes Alexi Prairie from Zaporozhye. The radical party in the new parliament is the voice of the Ukrainians, it's the voice of justice, it's the voice of truth for the Ukrainians. Let's fight! We will not give up the future of the country, we will not give up the land, we will not give up the Ukrainian language, we will not give up the soul!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u144	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Katzer-Buchkovska Natalija.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u145	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Natalia Katser-Buchkowska, and today I wanted to raise energy security issues, because given that Ukraine has a very high risk of losing transit since 2020, and the threat of building gas in Ukraine's Nord Stream-2, we have to think about how to provide gas and electricity to our population. So it is very important today as one of the energy security mechanisms that will increase natural gas production in Ukraine. And today the government is looking at the results of this week's interdisciplinary commission, including two years on this issue of investing in natural gas. Today we have companies from Canada, the United States, consortia from British companies, large Ukrainian gas collectors, and a state - owned Ukrainian gas company that is willing to invest in the development of the nine largest deposits. This is indeed the most unprecedented competition held during independence, and today we expect the government to approve these. will take this decision and approve these agreements as they were. The contest was held at which, and in the future of two years, Ukraine will receive the first natural gas production. For 5-7 years, Ukraine can extract enough gas, Ukraine can extract enough gas to provide its internal needs, and it will not have to import gas. It is also very strategically important for us to invest in gas production in the Black Sea and help, to increase the production by natural gas investors. I've always said that, and I'm also the author of the energy security bill that is in Parliament today, and I'm also saying that it's very important to protect our energy interests abroad. Therefore, this bill requires the creation of a special energy security authority, an institution that protects the interests of the State, international negotiations that will work with an investor, invest in Ukrainian gas production, renewable energy, and provide energy transit. I'm also saying that another important method of energy security is to create the Ukrainian gas hubs that are needed to ensure that the price of Ukrainian gas is adequate and we don't keep talking about these tariffs, but we need gas to be sold and produced in us, in Ukraine. And the involvement of investments, new companies in gas will create this market, a competitive market that will make the price adequate and, accordingly, Ukraine energy independent.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u146	Thank you. And the final address for today, I invite you to the speech of the national deputy Jehora Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u147	This week, people once again came out to defend the idea of cleansing power, against the Constitutional Court abolishing the law on illustration, the main law that led to the loss of jobs by thousands of officials, high-level owners of Yanukovitch times. It was very unexpected to see representatives of the Party of Peter Prashenko, other colleagues from the ruling coalition who, in fact, had been covering up Yanukovich's people for the past five years and were trampling themselves under the Law on Purification of Power. However, the street is a place of freedom, any person can join any protest, it's Ukraine, I'm doing well when people have civic activity. The only thing I'd like to say is that there's a very important and cool way for colleagues from the People's Front Block, from other forces that are now going under the new names to the Supreme Council, but in fact, representing this ruling coalition in Parliament, you can very much and very simply help to stop any attempts at rematch in the Constitutional Court. And the point is that it has been this cover-up that has been led by the Constitutional Court over the past five years by Natalia Shaptala, a teacher of the Donetsk prosecution, who has given Yanukovich dictatorial powers that have led him to usurp his authority. There's a criminal case, it's been discovered since March 2014 immediately after Euromaidan, according to the most serious, most serious crime in the Criminal Code -- the collapse of the constitutional system. There is no need to be an investigator to understand that such a case is easy to investigate: there was a decision by the Constitutional Court, under which are the signatures of the judges, including Judges Shaptali and two other acting judges of the Constitutional Court. Advise it and place it before the law, as provided for by the Criminal Code, for the benefit of the people. If Natalia Shaptala and her colleagues show the Attorney-General's office, they won't be able to cancel the Law on Purification of Power, they'll be busy. The Attorney General's Office is still headed by Yuri Lucenko, formerly a "instructor" of the Peter Poshenko Block, who is also supported by people from the People's Front and a piece of the Party of Regions, whatever they're called. Today, in the hands of Yuri Lucenka and everyone who supported him, this is a decision, help at least at the end of your work to clean up the Constitutional Court and to protect the Law on the Cleaning of Power.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-05-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, before we finish our work, I also want to say a few words about what happened this week and not just this week, but actually the last of these examples that we see. Of course, Russia is using the change of power in Ukraine to build up possible ways to restore control here. As you can hear, the louder (the whispers, the louder) is the idea of removing the blockade from the occupied territories and restoring the railway connection, as if to reintegrate and improve the dialogue between the people there and the Ukrainians in the controlled territory. I want to remind you of the wrong example, the recent example and example that we are still looking at, is the example of Moldova. Moldova, in fact, gave everything to the Transnistria occupied by Russia. It gave bridges, restored bridges, enabled people from Transnistria to work in Moldova, enabled them to engage in entrepreneurial activities, and enabled them to travel to Europe. I even lost my gas transportation system to buy debts from Transnistria to Russia. In fact, today, the transportation system of Moldova is owned by Gazprom. It was through debt for gas consumed by Transnistria. But were people living on the occupied Transnistria near Moldova? Not a gram. Why? Because this territory is controlled by an enemy, an enemy of Moldovan Russia. And as long as there's an enemy, there won't be any reintegration that Moldova won't do. The same is true of Ukraine. There's an enemy there, so while there's an enemy weapon, while there's an enemy soldier there, there can't be any reintegration. It can't be about any railway connection, because today's railway connection between the occupied territories and the territories controlled by Ukraine means that our infrastructure will be used by the enemy. I want to remind you that the Crucifixion until the blockade until the people cut across the rail lines, the Ukrainian railway was carrying Russian tanks, Russian ammunition and Russian soldiers on the front line, where they killed our boys. Thus, there can be no restoration of any economic or infrastructure ties until the area is freed. Thank you. This is my position as a national MP, this is the position of the political party I represent, the Self-Help Party. On this I want to say that we've finished our work today and we've finished our plenary week. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will take place on Tuesday, July 9, 2019, at 10 a.m. At this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed.
