ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. Please, we're taking up jobs. You're ready, aren't you? So, if you'd like to conduct your registration, please register. [[16:05:08]] 333 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Fellows, let me remind you that we are continuing our consideration of the draft Act (8528) amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of the issue of vacations for theatre workers. And also, colleagues, I would like to inform you that Suškević, the President-in-Charge of Veterans, addressed us yesterday, requested to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (8402). And this request was also made to the Conciliation Council of the Nin Yuzanin Tax Policy Committee. He stands next to this law, and we have a chance to support it. I ask the factions to hold consultations on 8402 so that we can unite with this room and adopt this law, which is the support of the disabled and the protection of the disabled. And so I'm asking everyone to maximize their mobility, and now we're going to continue the review of Bill 8528. And now our chapter is performances by factions and groups. Therefore, I ask the factions and groups who intend to speak on this bill to sign up. Please hold the recording. Please. Arthur Gerasimov, from Peter Dustenka's Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u2	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! I've already spoken on the substance of this bill from the parliamentary rostrum, so I would like to ask representatives of all factions and groups again very briefly to support this bill not only on the basis but also on the whole. If there are any remarks, we can, of course, vote only on the basis and then go to full consideration, I mean, second reading and acceptance in general later. But if you please, please support it immediately, both on the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u3	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, the word is given to Irina Podowak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, as I mentioned earlier, this bill has been tabled in grave violation of the Rules because we have already rejected a very similar bill with you in the Supreme Council. But anyway, it's, it's registered, we're looking at it. I mean, this bill has nothing to do with the support of creative workers. He's only increasing the corruption component in the theaters because he's going to force creative workers to be, in fact, in a position to go abroad on certain conditions. Because whether this vacation will last six months, or whether this "creational" holiday will last nine months, it will depend on the theater manager. In addition, we destroy a system that works in theaters: there is a stake, there is a man, there is a man, there is a man working. For the performers and creative workers who want to go abroad, namely, for the ten soloists in Ukraine this bill is, there is a wonderful tool called the Civil Law Agreement, where all national theatres of Ukraine can make any number of speeches, whatever civil law deal they have made, pay properly. And a person can travel abroad, sing on opera scenes, or play in other theaters, but there is no empty bet left behind in our theater. Moreover, when it comes to the so - called popularization of our national theatres abroad, no one can force foreign theaters to write on their own posters that one soloist, one musician or another is an employee, such as the National Opera of Ukraine. This is ridiculous, there is no such thing anywhere in the world, and the principle proposed in this bill is not in any country or theater in the world. There's a contract, there's contract terms, there's a list of exits to the stage, there's a speech. So what we're going to do here is we're going to ask the teachers or doctors to hold the stake, and then we're going to go to work abroad for 3-4 months, six months, or nine months. It's just an unacceptable bill. And please, since we didn't vote in June last year, we don't support it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u5	Thank you. There are no more wanters in factions? Let's move on to the speeches from the deputies. Please include a statement from the National MPs, 15 minutes. Please. Makarian David Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u6	Thank you. I want to give the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u7	Please. And you're going to be able to unify the performances, aren't you? Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u8	I would like to take this opportunity to look at our fellow countrymen who continue to look at this theater of absurdity and continue to wonder how this Supreme Council "workable", "productive" (everything in quotes) can continue to work. I don't think there are any prospects for the adoption of any of the regulations that people are asking for, for the reduction of gas prices, for wages, for the increase in wages, for the increase in pensions, for the whole modernization of social policy, unfortunately, in our country, it's impossible to do so. Me from. The only thing I did was talk to the citizens on the street, and as a response to my ideas, the proposals said similar initiatives. Well, here are the things that unite Ukraine’s national deputies today. On the eve of Child Protection Day, why don't we adopt a bill that we registered a few days ago that envisions criminal responsibility, a five- to seven-year-old sanction, and a seven-to-ten repeat for advertising drugs on the fronts of our houses? I was in Poltava on my last weekend. I'm not exaggerating, across the street from the Ukrainian Security Service, where the head of the Ukrainian Security Service window comes out, is a drug commercial. The fifth and ninth schools serving three microregions are one of the largest schools in the world. At school, at soccer gates, on the walls of the rooms next door, about four hundred inscriptions. At the same time, patrol cars are constantly driving, everyone is pretending to be in love with their children, and festivals are being held. This is the festival, and this is all described as narcotics. Why don't we now, when it's hard to make political decisions, decisions related to additional spending from the state budget, focus, dear friends, and adopt appropriate bills that don't require completely any funding -- not a budget secester, not a review of fiscal policy, an increase in taxes, the emergence of new taxes, but what saves the proportion of hundreds of thousands of our fellow countrymen may be millions. After all, you know that statistics show that our country is the second or third country in Europe, or the fifth country in the world, or the sixth country, at the rate of the spread of drugs among young people, among children. The third important ingredient is social policy. Well, what prevents the Ukrainian people's deputies from meeting and adopting a bill that, by the way, worked out the People's Front along with me (this is a unique case where the People's Front, along with the head of the Committee of Social Policy, worked out a bill that is positive and is breakthrough in social policy) to collect the only social contribution from the wages of the 120 government officials by 150, 200, 300 thousand wages. Not out of 55,000, like Koboleva, or.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u9	Look, you still have three minutes, but please speak on the subject of the bill, Mr. Sergei. Please. Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u10	Why don't we adopt a bill that will allow us to fund, particularly those expenses that are needed for those people who ask Gerasimov to work abroad. Theatre. Well, an increase in the only social contribution, an increase in the single social contribution base will give the state 12 billion dollars. We had talks with both the Minister of Social Policy and the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And these are the funds that are essential to the state budget today. Because once again, dear Ukrainians, your employer pays $55,000 from your body to $55,000 in contributions to the Pension Fund. So everything is taken to the penny, the pants are taken off, broken down and stripped, and the authorities, like Reva with salary of 250 to 300,000 dollars and his replacements with wages of 60, 70, 80 thousand dollars, pay only the only social contribution of 55. Is that fair? The whole world has an effective, progressive or ultimately regressive system where, depending on the increase in earnings, there is a decrease in the rate, but there is no untouchable amount. This is about where to get 12 billion dollars of revenue. Third. The State Fiscal Service has long forgotten to administer a single social contribution. And we don't get, according to the government's calculations again, about 7 billion dollars, because it's inconvenient to do this tax on taxpayers. And the Pension Fund has long been asking, "Give us the authority to administer." And let's find these additional 7 billion dollars to fund these bills again, and then no one is going anywhere. And we're not going to humiliate ourselves and talk about how they're Ukrainian, and here they're not Ukrainian, because we're going to work abroad, perform there, engage in creative activities. Why, in the end, we're not going to review, you've decommunized completely all the streets, most of them, except for your hometown of Red Town, Mr. Head. Everything was completely decommunized. Discommunize the payroll and pensions system by changing the order of the calculation methodology of the subsistence minimum. Because it's still a Soviet system that was introduced, it seems, in the 57th year, where there are no mobile phones, like a human condition; where there is no clothing, where there is no modern technology, and there's no information technology for which people spend money. Let's see what you're hiding under these laws to pay people less money. You know, at the end of the day, I'd like to ask, you're often in violation of the Rules, you've violated me for 3 years when you didn't let me out of the faction, because you needed 226 to tell the International Monetary Fund that you have a coalition. Move it again, move this very important law to the fourth. Move and review the law that we have broken on veterans. Half a million of our fellow countrymen who risked their lives were deprived because of their absence.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u11	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u12	Regrettably, they were deprived of their right to leave, their right to social protection. Well, it's not clear that any decision that is being made today will now be taken is a decision that will be "cut" by today's parliament. And if you think someone is looking at you here, at your factions and voting for you in the next election, don't build that hope. People want a full reboot. And only individual national MPs will remain in Ukrainian politics. And that's you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u13	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I ask, colleagues, all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite deputies to the Hall. It's a closing statement. Arthur Gerasimov is the final word, one minute and we go to the vote. Please, one minute from Gerasimov's team. And I'd like everyone to go back to work. Final word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u14	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! The law is overwhelming. Asking everyone to gather and support this bill. If it is not approved, I think that the next session will have to be redrafted, in accordance with the rules of the Rules, and it will have to be supported. Because I would like to remind you of what I said in my speech from the rostrum. This bill was not born as a theoretical initiative. The bill was born with creative intelligence, creative society in communication. And only after this problem was answered, and we as the national MPs heard it, was it worked with the creative community, and it was drafted as a bill. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the request to support solely with green buttons and a purely positive vote, this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u15	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Everyone please take up their jobs. And I'm betting on the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's just been a statement by the deputies. We just had to take notes and pay attention. The speeches by the deputies were and were recorded. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of the issue of leave for theatre staff (No. 8528) on the basis of a committee proposal. Please vote, please support me as a base. Vote. [[16:21:33]] For 134 Decision not taken is 134. Next: return to the committee for re-reading. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:21:59]] For 132 The decision is not taken. And the final suggestion is to return the draft Law 8528 to the author of the legislative initiative. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[16:22:25]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Thus, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of the issue of leave for theatre employees (8528) was rejected. Colleagues, I'm going to put the next two bills to the vote. The first is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that criminal law is harmonised with international law (9438). Please vote, please support. It's a signal vote. Please be supportive. It included a large number of public officials. [[16:23:15]] For-103 But the decision is not made. And the next 9353 is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code for the Improvement of Certain Provisions in relation to Special Trial Investigation (9353). Signal vote. Please vote, please support. Vote. Signal. [[16:23:49]] For 106 106. The decision is not made. Thus, colleagues, we can move on to the draft law under which there is complete unification in the hall. I was informed that all the factions were supporting him. It was urged by Nina Yuzanin on the Conciliation Council. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (No. 8402). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:24:35]] For-84 The decision is not made. And we're starting to consider the full procedure. And I invite you to report to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of South Carolina's Nina Petrovna. I'd like to invite you to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. As the minister of finance comes up and reports on this bill, I want to report to the committee. Indeed, we asked him to be put into the daytime order on these days, while we were still able to vote on such changes, and we explained why. Because the project proposes to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code. In particular, the words "disability", "disability of war" and "child with disabilities" are proposed in all distinctions and numbers to be replaced by the words "person with disabilities", "person with disabilities as a result of war" and "child with disabilities" in corresponding differences and numbers. Of course, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority made a statement to the bill and indicated that the bill needed technical and legal work and that making such individual changes of a small nature to individual laws did not fully address the problem of change. with a dense order, a cross-sectional order throughout the legislation of the given terminology. But in the first reading, such a bill can be adopted as a basis. In doing so, I emphasized at the Conciliation Council meeting that at this time, when we were looking at this bill on the committee, we were asked by the President-in-Office for the rights of persons with disabilities that the public organizations where such persons work and about 10,000 of them are very concerned about the benefits they have been applying in recent years, this year. And since the new Parliament is not working very soon, and it may not be time to adopt these seemingly minor changes, but which are important to certain people, they have asked us to add to this bill a standard for the extension of the zero VAT rate by the end of 2025, i.e. another five years. Therefore, in view of the above, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 10 April 2019 recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Code of Taxation (Registration No. 8402), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to be adopted on the basis of a new chapter I with a new paragraph 7 of this content: in paragraph 1 of subsection 8 of chapter XX of the Code of Finality, the figure “2020” should be replaced by the figure “2030”. This decision was supported by most members of the committee present at the meeting, and I ask for the support of the committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u17	Thank you. Please remain at the rostrum. And I'd like the National Deputies to sign up for a question to a co-rapporteur. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Ostrikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u18	Your Honor, I have a question. Certainly in support of the bill on the introduction of effective legislation to the social protection of persons with disabilities in accordance with the official translation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and without any reservations about voting for this bill on the basis, I would like to clarify, at the same time, what kind of enterprises are proposed by the Committee to continue the term of zero VAT, what are they important to the Ukrainian economy? And don't you think it might be more appropriate to look at the issue of not giving point benefits to some or other categories of enterprises, but once and for all, to cancel the income tax and replace it with a tax on the resulting capital, which is going to be a driving force for systemic change in our economy by both external and domestic investment, by increasing the gross domestic product and, in fact, by stimulating the increase in wages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u19	Thank you, colleague, for asking. The fact is, you know very well that this kind of enterprise would have to be supported by the State for the purpose of helping. And since we haven't even been able to come up with this topic in some years with regard to targeted support from the state budget, we have at least through such mechanisms to enable these enterprises to operate. By the way, their numbers are dropping dramatically, before the Crimea annexation, they were about half a thousand, 480 enterprises. Now there are 270 enterprises, of course 9,000 700 people. But it's people who are busy creating value added, and it's a zero rate that helps them, it gives them the resources to further develop these businesses. This amount is very small for the budget, and for 2018 this amount was 390 million. For 2017, more.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u20	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u21	Ivan Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin, Peter Dusty Block. Of course, it's very nice that the best committee we have today, one of the best committees, Nina Petrovna, is looking at you. This is a bill by the Cabinet of Ministers. And, of course, social protection for people with disabilities is and should be, and here, no matter how much there is, we should always pay attention to it. But the very change in terms, it's also "disability," it's "person with disabilities," it's really good for the people they have today. who are persons with disabilities. But tell me, please, and after the 30th year, what will be here? Something might change, what we're carrying from the 20th to the 30th? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u22	I, at your permission, colleague, will finish the answer to the first question, because it was actually very interesting. So, see, through such mechanisms, we support the activities of such enterprises. While checking them, there is no abuse at all. So I've been trying to get information from all sides about these companies, is there any feedback from the central executive authorities? None. That's the first one. Secondly, it would actually be for most businesses to create conditions that would allow us to develop and invest more in operational activities to increase jobs and increase the country's GDP as a whole. And so when we talk about the capital tax instead of the income tax, I think we're going to keep going after we have new bills on that replacement. And I'm ready to pass. To register such a bill, but in a month, we'll probably give the new president that opportunity because.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u23	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u24	Because they also have a view of the fundamental replacements and income tax on the resulting capital. You and I, colleagues, 150 people of this call will register immediately either an alternative or in a month we will register our bill, as we have done with you before. Now, what you've asked, my dear colleague, is your question whether this benefit will be lost. Yeah, he's gonna lose. She's got a deadline.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u25	Please, 30 more seconds and please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u26	Why are concerned about such organizations, and have asked the President-in-Office for the rights of persons with disabilities, so that we can now continue this Parliament for a longer term so that they can continue to work peacefully. So I am very sorry that we have so few colleagues. I don't know what to do, but we don't have to exactly break this bill, well, because I think all the previous social bills are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u27	Thank you. And one more question, please, the People's Deputy of Ostrikav.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u28	Dear Nina Petrovna, since it is proposed to continue the zero rate in taxing VAT transactions on the supply of goods to enterprises that are based on public associations of persons with disabilities, I would like you to tell us in more detail what kind of enterprises they are producing, that is to say the supply that this zero rate is going to operate. And the second thing. According to the IMF memorandum, there was a point that prohibited, more specifically, the Ukrainian authorities made a commitment to refrain from introducing additional benefits. Would such a vote be an obstacle to Ukraine's further cooperation with the IMF? As for the tax on the capital outlay, you and I are co-authors of that text that was introduced by President Dustenk to Parliament, which is considered to have been recalled in connection with the change of the President. So I fully support your opinion that right now the new President really needs to give time to fulfill the promises of his election program and then to study his text and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u29	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u30	and make a decision after that, whether to make an alternative bill, or to support an editorial that I believe will be made to deliver promises to Ukrainian entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u31	I want to start at the end of your question. I hope that all those who promised people and persisted in the struggle for this bill to be considered in the hall, we will still do what I just said -- in a month we will register this bill, we have been working on it for more than three years. I think it's balanced and acceptable for adoption in the hall. And the main thing, as far as the beginning of your question is concerned, I can't say right now in the section of activity what these public organizations are making right now, but, you know, when they tell me that they're even exporting their goods, I was very surprised. So we're great guys because they don't just have consumption in the internal market and not as much in the internal market as the exports of this product that they make. So I hope that, the second question is that it doesn't conflict with the IMF memorandum, because it's not a new benefit, it's a continuation of the benefit, and that's more.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u32	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u33	And what's more, the amount of aid is not significant to the budget, and it's definitely not a budget loss.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u34	Thank you, thank you, Madam Head of the Committee. You can go back to your job. And I'd like to invite the lead reporter, Mr. Andrey Gradil's Deputy Minister of Finance. Are you going to report from the scene? Please turn on the microphone. Turn it on, please. I'd like to invite you to the rostrum so you can answer the questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u35	Honourable National Deputies, Honourable Presences, Draft Law developed by Minfin to implement the organizational preparation plan for the draft acts necessary to ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Law of 07.06. 2016, No. 1490, amending the Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto. The purpose of the bill is to bring effective legislation into line with the official translation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code, according to which the words “disability”, “disability of war” and “child-disabled” should be replaced by the words “person with disabilities”, “person with disabilities as a result of war” and “child with disabilities” in appropriate differences and numbers corresponding to the terminology used in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol to it. Financial and economic justification: implementation of the bill does not require additional expenditure from the budget. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u36	Thank you. I'm asking you to sign up for a question to the honourable reporter. Dear colleagues, in view of the time we have saved by the reporter for the report, we will have more to ask. Please sign up. All the colleagues who have signed up for the questions will be able to ask the interview. Please, Mrs. Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u37	Good afternoon. Mr. Reporter, since, well, this bill has nothing to discuss, a change of terminology in accordance with the convention is certainly necessary. But once again, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration points to the low quality of the bill prepared by the Ministry of Finance, the fact that it contains technical and legal shortcomings, not even in all the articles, you have made corrections. And so what I want to point out is that the Ministry of Finance, which is supposed to be the tax policy-making body, shows the low quality of the billing work. In view of the fact that the bill is proposed by the Committee’s decision to supplement the extension of the benefit and the benefit will affect the budget, I have a budgetary issue for you. Does the Ministry of Finance, even in budgetary policy, meet its obligations? By May 15, the Budget Declaration was issued to the government by the Budget Code. Please answer what is happening to the budget process today, because tax policy formation is obviously what you're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u38	Thank you. Of course I do. The findings of the Chief Expert Office, they are supported, our amendments to the bill, there are slight shortcomings in the normative documentation, but they will usually be taken into account, and there are no particular problems. With regard to the budgetary process, we are now, you know, planning to submit the Budget Declaration, the three-year Budget Declaration. It is now being prepared and will soon be submitted for consideration by the government, where the budget is forming, the main indicators of the State Budget for the next three years. We're on our way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u39	Thank you. Please, the next question is the same from Mrs. Ostrick.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u40	Your Honor, i.e. you have just admitted that you have violated the budget code because it states that the Ministry of Finance, by May 15, which is ahead of schedule, submits the Budget Declaration for consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As I know, May 15th is over. Is there a Budget Declaration? That's the first question. The second question. Who today is engaged in customs policy? Please call me at the Ministry of Finance the name of the official, preferably at the level of the deputy minister who is now in charge of customs, customs, customs policy. Because, according to the Customs Code, the Ministry of Finance is also an authority that forms not only tax but also customs policy. Today, in the DFS, virtually all customs policy-makers, substitutes are suitably profiled, dismissed, the leadership competition for the new government customs service is blocked, and the new customs service is not created. The question is, Who in the state today is responsible for the customs issue? Give me the name of this man.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u41	Give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u42	On the first question. You quoted and stated dates relating to the annual declaration, it does not apply to the three-year declaration. And I didn't admit or admit that we're violating any term, and that can't be said for an annual, three-year budget declaration. As for the second question. It's not a matter of order, I don't know who it is that shapes this policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u43	Please ask the following question, National Deputy John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u44	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, it's very nice that, after all, you're with the tax committee of one thought. Because, of course, that's a pretty important change, and they have to be, because the term "disability," "person with disabilities" and that's the way it should be. But at the same time, I want to ask the following question. You said that this change of law doesn't require absolutely no budgeting. I don't think there's any such change or anything else that doesn't need that kind of money. Is that true or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u45	In conclusion, yes, I want to say that we, the Ministry of Finance, are completely in line with the Supreme Council tax committee on this issue. As for the additional expenditure, and it really doesn't need any additional expenditure, because if there are any expenses, they can be abstracted, and they will be made at the expense of the principal to perform their basic functions. Therefore, in addition to the State budget, as I have noted, there is no need for funds to implement the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u46	Please, the next question. Ostrikov's national deputy, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u47	Dear Mr. Grill, you are presenting here today, not yourself or your direction of work, but the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine as the central body of executive authority responsible for the formation of tax and customs policy. You didn't come here to represent yourself. Therefore, all matters related to this bill are matters related to tax policy. Since it is a VAT benefit, this is also true of customs policy, since the committee’s head said that goods produced by enterprises founded by disability organizations are exported in accordance with this issue of customs policy. And since the benefits will affect the budgetary indicators, it's a matter of budgetary policy. So please give a clear answer to my previous question, which official in Ukraine today is specifically responsible for the direction of customs policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u48	Well, I could be wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u49	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u50	No, well, it's on the order of day 8402, well, there's no one in charge who responds. Well, who's there, who's there, who's there, I really don't present myself, but you're putting me in such conditions as who's running the tender. I'm not ready to answer any of these questions. Well, maybe next time, ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u51	In the microphone, please speak. The next question is Ostrika's. Your next one, too? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to answer the microphone. I don't get your answer. Please, Mrs. Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u52	My dear colleague from the government, I would like to point out that as an entire deputy minister of finance, you need to know who is looking after the direction of customs policy in the Ministry of Finance, which directly falls into the subject of its knowledge. If you don't know, you probably don't belong in this department. This is the first position. The second position directly relates to the text of the bill. Did the Ministry of Finance count the fiscal losses resulting from the granting of the benefit? And wouldn't that be an obstacle to further cooperation with the IMF, given that the Ukrainian authorities, including the minister of finance, signed in a memorandum that we won't give new benefits?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u53	Please, your answer. Please respond, Mr. Grilled.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u54	Ladies, we have 8402 today, disabled child, disabled person. What benefits? What changes?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u55	Mr. Deputy Minister of Finance, well, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when MPs ask questions, they should be answered. In the microphone. I understand. I understand, but that's parliamentary democracy. Please, the next question, Mrs. Yuzanina, is your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it very clear that the Deputy Minister, a representative of the Ministry of Finance, is unaware of the decision taken by the Committee. It's obvious. You ask a question to someone who doesn't know what was said on the committee. And that, by the way, is a note from the Ministry of Finance. When we make additional decisions when we consider matters on the committee, you are not aware. They're long overdue, they're on the Supreme Council website, why aren't you familiar with them? Now that's exactly the question you should be answering. Because the committee has decided that a temporary zero rate rule applies to the sale of goods and services for enterprises established by the social union of persons with disabilities, we continue until 2030. I'm sorry, colleagues, not for 5, but for 10 years. So this rule has to stay constant. But since it cannot be transferred into a permanent form after the technical writing of the Tax Code, we continue to do so. And now we're increasing its term to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u57	Please complete one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u58	That's the question. How do you feel about the continuation of this standard, that is, the benefits of applying a zero VAT rate to such organizations? And please answer, because you feel the same way, even though you haven't read what you've proposed to the committee, but you've already understood what I'm saying. So please answer our questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u59	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u60	We support the committee's proposal. We support the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u61	Thank you. I'm asking you to go back to work. And I would like to take this opportunity to encourage government officials to really, really cooperate more actively with the committees and to attend meetings in order to be able on committees as if to have a profile discussion first. Colleagues, we already have speeches and a reporter and a co-conspirator. And now we're going to talk. Please register with the MPs and factions to discuss this bill. Please, Mrs. Jujanina, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, I would like to give you more, after all, such general help so that we can all understand which enterprises are considered to be able to use the benefits, the benefits that I just said. These include those established by a social association of persons with disabilities, where at least 50 percent of the employees are disabled, where their work fund accounts for at least 25 percent of the total wage fund for the entire enterprise. And it's only for goods that are made directly by them. So it's not for sales, it's not for reselling, it's not for any other product, it's not for what they make, it's not for this benefit. And I want everyone to know that we have a zero rate now for all goods and services. Could you step aside, please? Hey, buddy!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u63	Dear Mr. Branzovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u64	You talk behind your back and nobody hears.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u65	Please add a minute to Mrs. Jujanini. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u66	You have to understand that we have in the Tax Code a constant rule for applying a zero VAT rate for goods and services that are exported. So in a constant norm, the colleagues who asked me why we're not going to make it a permanent norm, we can't move it. Hence, since the beginning of the Tax Code, this is always the norm for individuals. for enterprises founded by a social union of people with disabilities, this is what we now call them, this standard continues all the time. So let's not waste any time. And since people are very concerned about what will continue to happen in the country and about the benefits, and regarding them, I ask that we, our calling, give them the opportunity to feel more stable in this life and work 10 years without thinking about what they will do next. So I ask that we all clearly understand that this is not an extra one, you know, a bad rule that can be used for bad purposes or for abuse. This will be an exclusive norm to support such enterprises, established by social associations of people with disabilities, and will only add opportunities to their work. I want to do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u67	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u68	Once again, the number of these enterprises is shrinking considerably, and this is a bad trend. Because we have to provide opportunities for these businesses -- people to unite and work together. It is their job that it is our duty to enable people to earn their own lives. And that's why I think this standard can be supported by everyone. I'm just worried about whether we have 226 votes. If that doesn't happen, well, I just don't know if there's any technical possibility of moving the vote to Thursday. I don't think we have the opportunity to lose or even lose faith in us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u69	Thank you. Unfortunately, Nina Petrovna, there is no way to move, but there is now the possibility of mobilizing the maximum number of people. We're going to have a vote in 20 minutes. This is a sufficient period for all factions to be able to mobilize their people to come, I emphasize, to their jobs. Support for people with disabilities is the responsibility of every national MP. In 20 minutes, I'm asking everyone to be in their jobs, who's negotiating, who's in the towers, you're now able to maximize everyone's mobility to be in the hall. I mean, all the factions and groups should be in their jobs in 20 minutes. And there's no excuse why the national MP isn't in his job, not at all. So I'm asking you to mobilize everyone in 20 minutes and bring them to the hall. I now give the floor to the statement from the "Opposition Block" of Dudenkovy Alexander Valeriyovich. Anyone else wants to step out of the factions, let me know. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u70	Alexander Doubenkov, Opposition Block. Respectable Ukrainian citizens, honourable colleagues, are currently under consideration as a technical bill, no change in the granting of benefits, no other favourable conditions for persons with disabilities, this bill is not being created, because enterprises whose profits have been exempt from income tax, 50 percent of which consists of persons with disabilities, this regime has always been, it has existed since the 2000s in one form or another. In fact, this bill is aimed at unifying a terminological apparatus that refers to the renaming of a disabled person. So essentially, it's technical, it's aimed at unification, it's not going to change the essential position from the point of view of taxation of people with disabilities. As far as the vote is concerned. Dear Mr. Head, you know very well that there are no deputies in the plenary. "The opposition block," of course, will support any initiatives aimed at enhancing the protection of people with disabilities. But unfortunately, we have to say that there aren't enough votes right now. And that's why I'm asking to initiate a discussion on this issue on Thursday. Maybe we have, we'll be able to support this legislative initiative. Of course, it needs to be supported. We have a moral duty before people not to call them, after all, disabled people, people with disabilities. And of course, everyone should join in supporting this legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u71	Thank you. And so I warned the faction heads to mobilize everyone in the room in 20 minutes. It can't be that there's no one in the workplace, and there can't be. And I'm being heard by everyone right now, and there are representatives of all the factions, and I have the ability to invite people as much as possible right now, because I don't know where the national MPs can be, except in the workplace. I don't know, I don't understand. I didn't miss any law and no vote in the session room, none. I do not understand why other national deputies may feel that they may be outside the session room during their working hours. So I emphasize and I remind you once again that in 15 minutes there will be a vote. Everyone please be in the hall. Are factions still desirable? Let's move on to the speeches from the national MPs, 15 minutes. And I ask everyone to carefully record who intends to participate in the discussion. 15 minutes for the people's deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, please, we are moving on to the performances of the Ukrainian National Deputies. I beg you, Mrs. Jujanina, your word. Mrs. Ostrikova, you didn't step out of the faction, we'll give you three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u73	Dear colleague from the Opposition Block, we're talking about the extension of the VAT premium. For 10 years, the VAT rate is zero. That's all I wanted to say. It's really not a technical bill anymore, it was in that government editorial that we started looking at on the committee. But once we've made a change that I've just read from the rostrum, it's already very important to these people. Because the zero VAT rate for enterprises founded by social organizations of persons with disabilities ends at the end of this year. And it was a great deal of concern that these companies expressed in a letter to the committee. We considered it and decided to continue for 10 years. This rule has existed since the introduction of the Tax Code. But it cannot be permanent. She is constantly subject to consideration in the hall and to the transfer of the terms of her operation. So once again, we're looking at this rule and we're going to continue for 10 years to enable businesses to work more stablely and not to shrink in the amount that is currently being followed, and vice versa, to increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u74	Thank you. Please welcome National Deputy Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u75	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Of course, the law that we are considering must be adopted. Because it's bringing Ukrainian legislation into line with international practices, with respect, with human rights, so that we don't have a terminology that hasn't been used in the world for a long time. And so, of course, this should just be voted out. But the problem is that the session room is empty. Why is it empty? Because the corrupts went to the districts to change into parliament. And the only thing I can say today is the establishment of justice: the Saakashvili have returned citizenship. This is the ruling of the Dusty regime, which pursued dissension and tried in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u76	Thank you. Thank you. Dear Mr. Sergey! Dear Mr. Sergio, you have repeatedly asked us to abide by the Rules. I ask very much that we be in this together, that we observe the Rules, and that you speak on the subject of the bill, that we make changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code. That's the first one. Please. Please. And secondly, for justice's sake, you just showed up in the session room. I hope you weren't in the county. Now, please, I ask you to speak on the subject of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u77	Thank you. I understand that the presiding officer is already being used as the new leader of the Dusty Party to decide who to speak to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll decide what role I'm supposed to be in. Please give the following address to the national MP, Levchenko. Thank you. I don't need to be advertised. Thank you. Please. Mr. Sergei, I'll give you three minutes later if you have a speech on the subject of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u79	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I'd like to speak to the presiding officer. Madam Chairman, I have your attention. Please be as principled as you have just been with Mr. Leschchenk, to all other deputies when they speak out on the subject, please. Because in our session room they don't speak on the subject very, very often.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u80	Thank you. I often interrupt such performances. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u81	But very often they don't stop, under some strange coincidence, they don't stop when they're representing the BPT faction. Well, that's right, the trailer. My speech will, in effect, be on the subject. My speech will be on what subject? And my speech would have to do with that, but how would it have to be done to get this bill approved? Because this bill, in fact, will now not be approved even though it is essential and must be approved. It will not be approved because there are currently not enough national deputies in the sessional hall of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But what would it take to ensure that these deputies were sufficient? In fact, I'm pointing out that last week, May 22, in this session hall, there were a lot of representatives and prejudices and representatives of the former coalition's factions were tearing their shirts off and shouting about open lists. I analyzed the transcript of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from that meeting, and more than 50 references were made to open lists more than 50 times. So if I were to now, I'm talking about this bill, you listen, I warned you that I was talking about this bill. So if we were to now live up to our promise in this session hall and consider in the second reading of the Electoral Code, as amended, we would go and use the proper session time, the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we would consider the Electoral Code, then, after we have considered the Electoral Code, we would then be able to approve this bill, and then it would be approved. And so it turns out that instead of doing this useful thing, there's going to be a farce, a fantasmagoria, some circus, this bill is going to be badly needed, and unfortunately, it's going to be broken because there aren't enough Ukrainian national MPs, and we could look at the Electoral Code. That's why I'm referring to the verdict: please, considering what you did, too, Mrs. Irina, you also took the transcript, you mentioned the election lists repeatedly, last week, the open lists last week, please let's start looking at the Electoral Code tomorrow, we're going through the second reading, we're looking at all the amendments so that we don't fail on important bills like this project 8402. And this project is important after the Electoral Code, when most national deputies return from their campaign and are ready to consider serious bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u82	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Levchenko. Dear Mr. Leschchenko, I'll give you three minutes to speak, only you will speak on the subject of the bill. Not now, but after all the speakers. Please, People's Deputies Pinzenic, may I have your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u83	Dear colleagues! It's a uniquely simple and completely innocent law that provides for all laws that use the word "disability" to replace the words "person with disability." And if Minfin missed some law somewhere, because there's a lot of laws that use that term, I don't think it's a problem, and we could approve it as a whole. But after the report in the hall, this law ceased to be so innocent. Because somehow there's a standard here that doesn't have anything to do with what the government wanted to do -- change words, refine terminology. If you have listened carefully, there is a zero VAT rate, a continuation. I don't even want to have a discussion about whether or not I need this zero bet, I want to go to the Supreme Council and all my colleagues. The government passed the law, the first reading, the amendments can be made to the law adopted in the first reading. Let's stop the practice of introducing rights to a government project. We are voting on the basis of a draft government that I would recommend voting for all. But I'm asking you not to include standards that the government didn't make, because this is the first reading we're considering.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u84	Thank you so much for bringing us back to the body of the bill. Please welcome National Deputy Victor Krivenko. Oh, my God, Mr. Victor. Victor Krivenko. He's being handed over by Mr. Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u85	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Indeed, there are many problems in Ukraine in many areas, including relations between the State and persons with disabilities. Hundreds, thousands and millions of Ukrainians can't go out, they can't get into government, and these issues aren't today's or not yesterday's, they're a matter of many governments, including one that's now running the state. The Prime Minister has filed for his resignation. And I was surprised to learn about the decision of one of the factions, watching on television yesterday, the largest faction that says that, and we will decide for this resignation to give our votes or not to give after personal communication with the Prime Minister. Is that a way to keep people from being cheated? We have no servitude to make decisions when a person has made a declaration of his resignation, which the National Movement of Ukraine has demanded for more than a year to satisfy. And I'm very concerned that today's number of deputies, so look, there's no MP in front of me at all, but the flags are, this is training and separation before Thursday, when they're voting for the resignation of the government. I call upon all the national deputies to be at work and to give their assessment of the activities of the Ukrainian government led by Mr. Groissman. I encourage voters to see who is at work, and the newly elected President, however, to introduce his own laws, which he promised, and on social protection, including the protection of persons with disabilities. By the way, I'm very pleased that the Opposition Block is protecting Mr. Prime Minister. Here I hear, perhaps our listeners do not hear, but I hear them say that we should not talk about government, we should talk about something else. And we'll see. We'll see, in fact, what initiatives the President will take in the coming weeks of energy, including on tariffs, on economic issues, on impeachment. I call on the President to become a hero and become the first president to pass a bill on impeachment, namely himself, on removing the inviolability of the President and the judges, including laws to protect persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u86	Thank you. My dear colleagues, I'm sorry, but they're always coming to the foresight of the session room so that everyone will comply with the Rules. At the same time, when the chairman asks the speaker to abide by the Rules and discuss a bill, well, they don't hear each other. It's unfair, it's unfair. That's not fair. I very much ask that we discuss a disability bill. And I especially thank Mr. Pinzenik for bringing us back to the body of the bill. Mr. Levchenko, will you take the floor? Please. I remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u87	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First, about the bill, actually, which we're looking at. Yes, the bill is important. First of all, I agree with Mr. Pinzenic that under no circumstances will we allow him to make any amendments. It should be considered exclusively in the first reading, and at least at some point, although sometimes it should be mentioned in the Rules. Although, unfortunately, the Law on Rules of Procedure in the Supreme Council is rarely mentioned in this session hall, it is rarely carried out. So we vote for him in the first reading. But it must be understood that the issue of persons, our fellow citizens, our fellow countrymen with disabilities, is not really resolved by even one bill or by one bill at all. It's just a matter of approaching executive power, the approach of this session hall in general to humanity. Actually, we just have to be human, right? - We don't know who. And we need to take care of people who are worse off than you are. And unfortunately, for years, all the authorities -- that the one who passed away -- didn't worry too much about it. Look, for example, if we're talking about the availability of some of the public authorities, not just the authorities, of any other public objects, how much they can get physically, especially those who can't move on their own. Well, it's almost impossible at all, it's absolutely terrible. Many talk a lot about Western Europe in this session room, but for some reason very little is done in the context of Western Europe. And that's what the bill is about. I would like to point out once again that, unfortunately, this bill is not going to be voted on. And Mrs. Irina, if you please. If this sessional week most people would do what they promised, and promised most of last week, screamed from this rostrum, screamed about open lists, ripped shirts that would open lists, we wouldn't give closed lists, let's open lists! But what is it? There is no consideration of this bill today. Somehow he's been out all day for a week. So, if we were to look at it now. Oh, Mr. Parobius has come, and he has told many stories about open lists. So if we were to now look at open lists in the second reading and go as amended, this would be done by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, yes, then this important bill on persons with disabilities would not have been overturned. Do you understand? And there would have been two benefits for the state -- and on the one hand, they would have finally accepted the open lists that many people are talking about -- and on the other hand, there would have been a chance of this much-needed bill, and there's neither that nor that, to the great regret.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u88	Thank you, Mr. Levchenko. There are optimists and Andrew Volodymyrovich and I, and we are convinced that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will adopt the Open Lists Act in today's cadence, in today's cadence.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u89	And I would also like to point out that there are supporters of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules in the Presidium, and you know that without a committee it is impossible to put a bill on the table without a committee. So now we are making every effort to have the Legal Political Committee meet tomorrow morning and make a decision. I asked the chairman of the committee to support the work of the working group so that all of these work would be simply supported and the committee's head in general agreed with that logic. So, colleagues, we're going to have another discussion, but right after the committee's decision, we're going to be able to move on to a table and review of the Electoral Code with open lists. The committee members are optimistic about this work. And on that issue, colleagues, you don't have to speculate, because a working group of top specialists worked for almost 10 months, and only in March did they finish their job.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u90	And now the task force has concluded its meeting. We'll be able to get a decision from the committee and go to the codex. To that end, we need to be responsible, read and teach the Rules and realize that once the Committee's decision is made, we will immediately move on to a review of the Electoral Code, which I have the honour to be the author of. Thank you, colleagues. Now Borislav Bereza. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u91	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. I want to say that probably in this room, none of the people in this room would object to making changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code and replacing the word "disability", "disability of war" and "child-disabled" with all the differences, the numbers on "person," the person with disabilities as a result of the war, and so on. But the question is different. Mr. Andrew, you're a smart man, and I'm a smart man, you see how many deputies are now, and you understand that this law will not be passed, unfortunately. Sadly, we must admit that. Unfortunately, your desire to adopt this law and my desire have come to the conclusion that there are no members. I don't know how many are now -- whether there are 100 deputies or less than 100 deputies -- but that's the problem. And the problem that we're going to face is the problem that we're going to face tomorrow. Regrettably, this Supreme Council does not have much time left. What am I trying to say? This bill is very important, but there is another bill that can strengthen the Supreme Council, this is a bill on temporary commissions of inquiry, and I would like to see this Supreme Council vote on it in a second reading, and this bill strengthens the next Supreme Council and the next one, because what we can do for Ukraine is to strengthen the influence of the Ukrainian Parliament on everything it does in Ukraine. This is the only mechanism that we can give to those who come after us so that they can influence. So I'd like you to hear it now. I don't believe that right now we're going to gather voices, not because there's no potential in the room, but because there aren't any voices in the room right now. It's in the session room. And I would like us to still consider the Law on Temporary Commissions on Second Reading next sessional week, because that's it. That's what we have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u92	Thank you. It's only very funny when you're acknowledgmenting me for the things I'm proclaiming and preaching. On the Conciliation Council yesterday, I made a report and commissioned the Legal Policy Committee to review the Open Lists Act and commissioned the Rules Committee to review the Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions. I'm counting on both committees to make decisions tomorrow, and we'll be able to look at it first, I'll point out, because it's shorter, the Law on Temporary Investigation Commissions, there's 1,000 600 rights. And if there's a committee decision tomorrow, we'll be able to get to it on Thursday, the day after tomorrow. And that's my principle position. And after that, go straight to the Electoral Code. The electoral code is longer, it has four thousand and a half rights, and it is essential that the apparatus is able to draw this table. It'll take more time. But this is our plan for the coming period, and I've proposed this plan on the Conciliation Council. We only need one thing, colleagues, to concentrate. I'm stressing again, I warned you twenty minutes ago that everyone would be in the workplace. I'm now addressing the heads of factions who are responsible for the discipline of everyone in the workplace. I want to make a point: in view of the fact that I've taken the line, I'm now from the MPs of Sporish John, then from the factions I'm going to give to the Radical Party and Self-Help, then the closing word. And a line, a line, right? And then, I just stressed, if you were listening to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, you'd hear what I said about it. And then we move on to making a decision. And, colleagues, I don't understand those deputies coming out of the hall. On the contrary, we now need to mobilize all of us in order to maximize the number of people in the session room during the vote, during the decision-making process. Please, Sporish John.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u93	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. And of course, once again, I want to remind the hall that we're looking at Bill 8402, and not the other one, what we're talking about. Except we didn't speak both from the rostrum and from the hall. So I'd really like to really talk about this bill. I'm going to say that it's just that Nina Petrovn Jujanin has spoken two or three times, and she's already chewed us up so much, that maybe this is where we need it, and all the factions are really ready to support the bill. But unfortunately, we see that there is really no shortage of national MPs, because today we are talking about social protection for people with disabilities. And the main thing is, what was highlighted is really benefits for 10 years of VAT. And I think we should all vote today, because even the change in "disability" to a disabled person is already a big plus for that person is what they call it. And so I think that we should support the tax committee today, we should support this bill, we should all vote together, because it's pretty important, and we should only really talk about this bill, not about the elections that are coming. Because we see that today we're just saying, "Elections, elections and elections." This is what we see in the performances. I think let's go back to speaking for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u94	Thank you. Two more factions. From the Radical Party faction, I invite you to the words of Oleg Valeriovich Ljashka. Then self-help. I warned you, and I said, "What's the sequence?"
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u95	Honourable Ukrainians, respected colleagues, are not often considered in Parliament in legislation on the protection of people with disabilities. And instead of discussing essentially the problem of people with disabilities and more than 2 million people in Ukraine, they talk about anything: open lists, closed lists, Saakashvili, fox devils, something other than the problems of 2 million people living in hell. God does not allow anyone to be a disabled person in Ukraine. One day, at the request of journalists, I got into a wheelchair to feel in a wheelchair by a person from the D.C.P. I couldn't make it 100 meters. At first the curb struck and almost fell out of the cart. And millions of people face these obstacles every day: they can't go to a hospital, to a pharmacy, to a culture house, to a school, to a kindergarten, to their own home. I met a family in Equine, where a disabled man is confined to a wheelchair on the 4th or 5th floor, and there is no elevator. A similar story in Kamyanec-Podilski, where he met a family, where a young mother, with two teenage children from the D.C.P.P., was given a small hippie apartment on the fourth floor. And for 12 years, she's been dragging these kids around, a double from the D.C.P. In Bojarka, Ukraine’s only house for blind people is closed because 15 hectares [15 ha] of land with forest want to be fed. And hundreds of people who are able to come in at least once a year, blind, communicate with each other, are thrown out of this room. Help with the care of a disabled person for a month is 17 bucks. And the Ministry of Finance comes and talks about something instead of making changes to the budget. And we propose a review of the budget and a minimum wage for effectively overcoming poverty. And so that this care goes to work. Because the mother, the father of her whole life, drags her child on, walking, blind, lying, receiving 17 bracelets a month, and lacks a full - time job, caring for her child, without giving up on her, without putting her into the children’s home, without translating her problems into the needs of the state. We insist on an immediate review of the State Budget Act and to set the cost of solving the problems of people with disabilities at least 3 percent of GDP so that no building, no road, no infrastructure project can be put into operation without taking into account the problems of people with disabilities. This is going to be real support for these 2 million Ukrainian citizens that you've captured with your conversations instead of a real solution. We offer this real path.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u96	From the Self-Help faction, Mrs. Ostrkova. Go back to your own faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, we are considering a very simple bill. I'm sure you've all understood its meaning. In the Tax Code, the Ministry of Finance is proposing to replace the word "disability" with "persons with disabilities." Those are words, words that really matter. But I think these people with disabilities, they'd need much more and they'd appreciate it if the Ministry of Finance didn't provide us with technical, inadequate bills, but would review in the Tax Code those rules that apply to possible support, incentives, particularly tax benefits. This bill is another example of the incompetence of the Ministry of Finance, which does not think comprehensively about the needs of certain categories of citizens. And now my colleague tells me that in his district in the White Church, there's a company called UTOS, which actually produces this kind of product: magnets, other small goods that are being exported today. And I want to say to the Ministry of Finance: thank these people, thank these businesses that these people are working, regardless of their disability, providing for themselves, their families, they're not in line for subsidies and other benefits from the state that are targeted. And you should think about them, not the MPs, not the committee. And you should form a very comprehensive tax policy in different categories of enterprises in different sectors of the economy. Why was I asking questions about customs today? Because you've heard from the committee's head that this product that's produced by enterprises founded by disabled people's organizations is also being exported. And what do they face today at the customs office? They are there today with delays, not with simplifications. Today, they face intense pressure and struggle. Why does this happen? And I would like to inform you, fellow officials, that there is no official in the state today in charge of customs policy. Because the State Fiscal Service is in the process of reorganizing, it's a state tax office, and the State Customs Service, its creation is blocked. Because the competition is a blocked call from the people's MP from the U.P.S. to the governor's election. And what we have in the finals. I'd like to inform you, fellow customs officers: the May plan was 29.4 billion, the fact is 22.3. Implementation of the plan is 76 percent. We have the same situation over the course of four months. Implementation of the customs payment plan is 80 percent. And that's why, dear colleagues, we are hearing today about the statements made by the DFS officers that they are launching a series of different programs called "Contrabanda Stop!" And so on, the Bastion plan. And in fact, it's nothing more than a strong pressure on business. When representatives of various law enforcement agencies are in a period of turmoil, there will be pressure on businesses in customs at a time when there is no official in charge of customs. Therefore, respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u98	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u99	Therefore, honourable colleagues, this bill certainly needs to be supported with the suggestions made by the chairman of the committee in the first reading. We're ready to do it. But you and I all need to take a complex approach to this issue and think about what is making the budget today and why the state is destroying the customs business today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u100	My colleagues, once again, I urge you to see who is not here and invite the deputies into the hall. From the Opposition Block, Mikhail Papiev, please. And then from BP, Nina Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u101	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! You know, it's kind of weird to see what's going on in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine did not work for four and a half years. Now it was mentioned that there are persons with disabilities, mentioned that the corresponding are Ukraine’s international obligations to these persons. And the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine -- this powerful structure, which is also the subject of the legislative initiative -- was born with this bill. It's really an elephant that gave birth to a mouse. So in fact, people would have to take and understand about the legislative field of Ukraine in general. Because when you're reading this bill, it's absolutely right that you should replace the words "disability" with "persons with disabilities" according to the convention. But the Cabinet of Ministers should know that there is also the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities. And in the same law, notice, the Cabinet of Ministers refers to the Social Protection Fund. So I have a question: who prevented the Cabinet of Ministers from amending this law and changing the name of the Social Protection Fund to the Social Protection Fund of persons with disabilities? Well, the most gruesome fact that I have to pay attention to today. Mr. Head, well, from now on you will support this practice when the subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the committee that. The subject of which is this law, it comes out and begins to consider in the first reading making changes and adjustments. That's what Victor Mikhailovich says. Well, it's absolute nonsense, it's absurd, it's a disgraceful practice. We have a draft in the first reading, we take it either as a basis or we direct it to the subject of the legislative initiative, or to the second first reading and many others, there are appropriate decisions that are provided for in the Rules. There is no need for the committee’s chairman to read something for the first time, and we voted on it. There can't be such a thing. We have to accept it either on the basis of it or not vote for it, and for the second time, they have this desire -- please, let them work. Well, that's total nonsense. We have already come to the conclusion that violations of the Rules are those encouraged by the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's do it anyway, now that there's a swan, this song of the Supreme Council, even though we're about to learn to abide by the Ukrainian Law of the Rules. The opposition block will vote on the basis of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u102	Thank you. From Nino Jujanin's Peter Dustenk Block. And I'd like you to invite the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, is it not surprising that you are now hearing about compliance with the Rules with this very common people, and not just ordinary people, but people with limited working ability, we will put a dot right now and we will only follow the Rules because the continuation of the benefits goes against the text of the draft law in the first reading. Aren't we ashamed to even talk about it? I'm not going to talk about the fact that, in fact, the government's technical bill is inopportune, that the government has not reviewed or accepted amendments to the Tax Code, which refer to the benefits of the social spheres that we have to continue to protect, which are not exactly in conflict with the IMF memorandum. I'm not talking about it. And if you have raised that question, then listen. And what has happened to us right now, taking care of our further protection, which is in this disgraceful or disgraceful one? Why can we not accept these changes? Unfortunately, we don't have enough votes. Indeed, everyone here, I am sure, will vote in favour of the adoption of the draft law in the first reading, taking into account the changes proposed by the committee. And it's not a committee there, it's a committee on tax and customs policy, where the delegates of all factions and where there are always 17, 20, 25 people working all the time in order to bring the strictly-considered laws here into the hall. So, your honors, of course, we're few in the room right now, and the representatives of the BP are also not enough to pass this law. But I'm talking to you anyway. We put the previous laws on a rating vote, and this law is so important to protect those who need protection, so we put it right in the hall, unfortunately. So I urge everyone to vote and I will continue to try, after all, to implement the request that has been made to the committee shortly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u104	And I hope that you will now make an effort to get the MPs into the hall and take part in the vote. Replica is Sergey Lechchenko. And, colleagues, in three minutes of voting, and I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. Please, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u105	Dear Ukrainian citizens, I was given a replication after this indignation, when I was asked to close my mouth in the rostrum of the Ukrainian Parliament, the main legislative body of democracy in our country. I mean, you won't shut my mouth. I've done everything I can to make Ukrainian citizens live better, and I'm going to expose the fraudulent actions of oligarchs and corrupters. And Dustenko has already paid the price in the elections. The next one will pay the price of Lucenko — the person who has made the last effort to hold onto the chair. When President Zelensky said on the stand "go away," he tried at any cost, dragged Ukraine on an adventure with Juliani to be in the Attorney General's chair. I want to tell Lucenka that he will pay his political price for this. He'll pay for telling the world about Saakashvili. Saakashvili returns to Ukraine tomorrow. And I don't envy this man Lucenka because he's going to pay for his actions every day. Rather, let him leave office early and not be ashamed of this place.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u106	So, colleagues, the final word to the Minister of Finance. And let's move on to making a decision. Deputy Minister. So, colleagues, the closing statement, and we move on to the decision-making process. Please invite everyone into the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to report that three minutes from now. And I ask the heads of the factions to invite everyone to the hall. For the closing statement, we invite Deputy Finance Minister Gradil Andriy Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u107	Honorable deputies. Please support this bill 8402. This is what I reported from the Ministry of Finance, which deals with name changes according to the memorandum. And there's no extra expenses, no extra budget costs. Please support, because this is in line with the memorandum and does not prevent you from amending further laws. Those comments and suggestions that were made, I wrote them down, we'll work them out in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-28-m1.u108	So let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, please come into the hall so we don't go back. Please prepare for the vote and take up jobs. These are the questions that should unite the hall. And please come into the hall. Look who's not around. And invite you to the hall. You're ready, aren't you? So we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (No. 8402) on the basis of a committee proposal. Please vote, please support, carefully on the basis, please vote, please support base 8402. We vote, colleagues, very carefully every voice, we support. [[17:37:39]] For 186 I'll be back. Please come into the hall, please, who hasn't made it back to work. Now I'm going to make an offer to come back. I'm going to read by factions: "Clock of Petra Poshenko" – 60, "National Front" – 44, "The Opposition Block" – 20, "self-help" – 11, Radical Party – 15, "The Fatherland" – 3, "The will of the people" – 1, "The Rebirth Party – 4, non-fractional – 28. I, my colleagues, will return. Please take your seats and come back to the hall and vote. Please mobilize, see who's not here and invite you. So I propose to return to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (8402). Please be careful, colleagues, everyone take part in the vote. Please vote responsibly, vote in favour, please support, please vote, vote. [[17:39:07]] For 180. Even less. I'll put it in closing if there are no votes, I'll go to the vote and put it back on the committee. So, colleagues, I'm re-voting the proposal, back to voting on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (8402). Please vote, please support the return. Vote. Please vote. [[17:39:54]] For 178. I'll bet you the next offer. Who's in charge of bringing the bill back to the committee for the re-reading? If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote back to the committee. Voting and supporting. Please vote. [[17:40:30.]] For-173 And the final proposal I have to put to the vote is to return the subject to the legislative initiative. So I am voting on the proposal that the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (8402) should be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[17:41:13]] For-170. The decision is not taken. And unfortunately, the bill of Law 8402 is rejected. The next block, the second reading, I'm going to run a rating vote on it to at least see what kind of support the hall of the laws. So I'm conducting a rating vote on four draft second-reading laws that are next in line for the day session. Everyone, please take part in the rating vote. First. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning military standards. This is Project 8370. And I'm announcing it as just a rating vote. Please vote, please support 8370 on amending some of Ukraine's laws on military standards. [[17:42:20]] For-119 The next one is also a rating vote. That's what the authors asked. Next: Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the granting of maternity leave to adopt an orphan child, a child deprived of parental care (6,350). And I'm only conducting a rating vote. Please take part, please support. Vote. [[17:43:03]] For-126 Next rating vote. Draft Law on Amendments to the Road Traffic Act of Ukraine on Road Traffic for Persons Moving in Wheelchairs. This is also a second reading, 7486. The rating vote. Please vote, please support. [[17:43:39]] For-125 And the final draft of the Second Reading Act is the draft Act amending article 242 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (6070). I'm also announcing a rating vote. Please vote, please support. [[17:44:10]] For-123 So, colleagues, we have the next draft of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that Ukraine implements the Convention on Civil and Legal Aspects of International Child Abduction. But I'm afraid and I'm afraid we're just not going to be able to see it today. The MPs are set up for full procedure. If we're going into full procedure, we're just not going to be able to see it. I thank you so much for coming to our meeting, but unfortunately, we have too little time left to consider. And I'm going to do everything we can to get him to look at it the other day while we have enough time to look at it. Thank you, Sergey Igorovich, for participating in our meeting. I think we can do this law together next time. We're not going to be able to look at this bill anymore. And that's why I call the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow morning, I'll invite everyone to the session hall at 10 a.m. I remind you, tomorrow's report of the Court of Auditors, and please be present at the morning session. Thank you.
