ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, time for recess is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, get ready for registration. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies to the hall. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. Why are there so few national deputies? Please come into the hall. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration and please register for the evening session. Please register. [[16:04:15]] 351 national deputies registered. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. My colleagues, before we begin our session, I would like to say that we are pleased to welcome students from the city of Nova Odessa of the Mikolai district of the New York Professional Agrarian List is the young support of our state. And we wish them perseverance in subjugating new peaks. They're in the hall today, with us, let's welcome them. And also with a visit, a delegation of students from the city of Nova Odessa of the Mikolai district of the Novoodes Professional Agrarian List. We welcome our guests to the Supreme Council. We welcome our students. [[Applause]] I also want to report that there has been a report of a break from two factions -- the People's Front and the Radical Party. And they're ready to replace the break with the stand. And from the factions to the rostrum, I invite the head of the Maxim Burbak People's Front faction. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that I am very grateful to our colleagues in the Radical Party of Oleg Lalashka for the opportunity we have today to announce a very important news from this rostrum. The U.S. Attorney General finally opened criminal proceedings against Medvedchuk. The People's Front Group welcomes this decision of the Attorney General. Medvedchuk works consistently in Russia’s interests. Until recently, he had a negotiating process, or perhaps still has, semi-official status as a becimto for the release of Ukrainian hostages. It is difficult to tell whom Medvedchuk more represented in these negotiations: the Kremlin or Ukraine. Only one thing can be said exactly is that the activities of such individuals contribute not to the release but to the capture of new Ukrainian hostages. Medvedchuk has consistently justified the actions of the aggressor state and is trying to blame Ukraine for this war. Medvedchuk calls for surrender, he promotes federalization, and in fact the dismemberment of Ukraine, which will have enemy enclaves controlled by Moscow. Medvedchuk is constantly flying to Moscow, perhaps to receive valuable instructions from his masters. Now the Kremlin has actually officially accepted its involvement through Medvedchuk in a series of so-called channels, including Channel 112 and News One. That's enough! Stop putting up with it! Thanks to the unsettling public and the position of the People's Front faction, the Henprosecutor has opened criminal proceedings against the godfather Putin Medvedchuk. We welcome this decision once again. We hope that Medvedchuk’s guilt will be proved, and this traitor will receive appropriate punishment from the Ukrainian State. Yet we are not obliged to stop. The People's Front once again calls on parliamentary factions to submit their nominations to the interim commission of inquiry on Russia's involvement in elections through its agents like Medvedchuk. We once again urge the President as the head of the NPB to impose sanctions against Kremlin Medvedic TV channels - 112, NewsOne. It's not media, it's propaganda. The Supreme Council approved the corresponding decree. The President's decision and the RNB. Ukrainians eagerly await effective opposition from the enemy agency. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u3	Thank you. So, colleagues, let me tell you, we're continuing to consider regulations from the education block and the young. We have the next draft of Parliamentary hearings on "The balanced development of human capital in Ukraine: the task of education and science" (No. 9109). But before that, colleagues, I want to make a message. Attention, please, especially the heads of factions. I asked the apparatus to propose a second reading of the laws in view of the fact that we had not yet established the weekly routine. And the apparatus proposed two draft laws to unite the hall. The first is 6230, a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster (6230). And the second is 6656. And one author is Aresonkov, the other author is Litwin. I'd like to have a consult. And I'm sure the whole room will support these laws. And I'm sure there'll be general support. Of course, I'll put it to a rating vote before then, but that will be after we consider the final ruling on parliamentary hearings. I'll point it out again, I'll put it on the ratings before that. If there are no votes, I will not put them on the table. They're short. But if it unites the hall, today we will have a chance to have the bills that the committee insists on -- that's the second reading, and I have the right to put only the second reading -- to support and consider today. In the course of the decision-making process, I hope that everyone will be able to hold consultations, mobilize, and we will be able to support these laws. And now I'm announcing the move to the Parliamentary Hearing Order on "The balanced development of human capital in Ukraine: the task of education and science" (9109) and I'm voting on the proposal to consider it in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[16:10:00]] For-79 I'm sorry. But, colleagues, I'll remind you, by noon, we were also looking at the full procedure, but, nevertheless, this has led to both of us supporting the decision on education and youth. I am also sure with this determination that we will be able to speak in detail and come to a positive decision. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! We today, well the Supreme Council of Ukraine, once again demonstrate a really powerful potential, which is related to the adoption of bills relating to the education of Ukraine, science, intellectual property, balanced development of human capital. Dear colleagues, in the first part, I would like to thank everyone for the productive voting of Bills 9505 and 9506. Because this will allow for a substantial change in the way we see it, in a revolutionary way, in the determination of the winners and in the awards of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as in the scholarships. In fact, during our discussion, there was a discussion about the fact that this is not exactly a systemic solution, because in fact thirty young scientists will receive a bonus of 60 subsistence minimums, and thirty of them will get scholarships, which also have 60 subsistence minimums. We understand it because it's happening, and we see it from the decline in the population of Ukraine, we see it from the point of view of migration of young people both abroad and from the territories of south and east of Ukraine. And by the way, it was really nice to see all the politicians, whether they were blocking the rostrum or not, applauding the children who had arrived. Oleg Valeriyovich, I'm here to address you personally. We all applauded these children. Why did we applaud them? Because in them we see what? The future of our Ukraine. And we have to have politics, systemic politics with you, because that's education, that's medicine, that's quality infrastructure, and then people will want to stay in Ukraine. Unfortunately, we do not have a systematic policy. That is why the Committee on Science and Education proposed. Dear colleagues, we cannot solve separate educational problems, social problems and economic problems, migration problems, visa problems and so on. This is a systemic problem, and we see it. Just look at the example for everyone. We passed the Basic Education Act. Okay? Okay. We've written down a standard that's very important for everyone who, after 9th grade, kids choose their own profile. It could be a humanitarian profile or it could be technical, or it could be a natural mathematical profile. Now for a question that no one can answer. Tell me, what happens in seven years? How many kids are going to go into the humanitarian profile, the natural math and the technical? I'll tell you this could be 1-2 percent. And then there's the question of what's going to happen to engineering specialties that are going to be with IT. Because if we release children who don't know mathematics at all, physics, chemistry, biology, that means how we're going to fill in the human capital that's going to work in these areas. Why do we have, including tariff problems? We have tariff problems because we have a linear way of developing the economy. We have to find the link that we're going to be able to move the economy, the economy on the innovative path. And without education, without the education of people, there can be no such thing. But we can have an educated nation that we've got in Soviet times, because teachers support, support, support the front, just the education of our children, but if there's no medicine, if there's no quality infrastructure. So, Maxim Vitaliovich, I ask you to ask your colleague to step down. So I'm just asking you to understand. We've got 10 minutes, Vladimir Mikhailovich. So I want all of us to understand a very simple thing if we don't get involved with experts and we don't offer the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to understand that we need a systematic policy in the area of human capital building to stop the migration of young people so that we can understand how to make the development of human capital in the regions balanced so that we don't have a situation where from the south and east parts of Ukraine went to 70 percent of our graduates, otherwise we're going to give up positions to Russia, we're going to liberate regions that border with Russia, from education, and education is just the social mental immunity of the Ukrainian nation. I am addressing all of you with the understanding that we need to hold these parliamentary hearings. Since you and I failed these parliamentary hearings three months ago and they didn't go through, after consulting with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we agreed on the next date, April 10. This is exactly the time we could have, and a science and education committee would have the opportunity to organize this work, to invite experts from various fields in Ukraine. Because if we don't, I'll tell you honestly, then we'll even be happy to sell a circle, because people educated, intelligent, who can make startups and give high added value to Ukraine's development, they just won't be left. Dear colleagues! I'm talking to you again, it's not just an educational question, it's a question of social policy, it's a question of economic policy, it's a question of medicine, it's a question of ways that unfortunately you can't go anymore, because they're practically ruined. Dear colleagues! We have to hold parliamentary hearings, make the right conclusions and make the law. Moreover, I would recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at this time, until we have a systematic, centralised policy in the area of human capital building, entrust one of the vice-prime ministers, and this may be Hennaday Grigorovich Zubko, and place on it the responsibilities that would provide for this time until Parliament has determined how to do this policy, to impose responsibilities related to development, balanced development of human capital, both in Ukraine and in general. Dear colleagues! It's a lot of questions, I understand -- the President's election, I understand -- the Supreme Council's election. The President's election will be held, the election of the Supreme Council will be held, and the Ukrainian people will remain, and we will remain, and our responsibility for failing to form such a policy will be in our chamber. So I'm asking everyone to get together, find political motivation, open the window, understand that there are political requirements, in that. And economics for tariffs, I get it. But open the window, vote for this decision, and say, this Supreme Council wants to solve the issue before the end of its mandate, and understand how we will build the very valuable thing in Ukraine -- our human capital, our young people, our scientists, our teachers. Dear colleagues! Let's do it again, I'm addressing all the political forces, the Peter Prashenko Block, the People's Front, the Self-Help, the Radical Party of Ukraine, the Rebirth, the Opposition Block. Young people and the future of Ukraine are what unites us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please, we have a blocked rostrum. Please take your seat, and I will gladly give you a reply in compliance with this rule of the Rules. I now have a point to make before the presidency of several factions of Parliament that disagree with the fact that their representatives have not been able to present the factions of the faction from the rostrum. So I'm happy to give you a line from here. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to identify yourself. From the place, please. Oleg. Oleg, out of the way, please. Please, Oleg, out of the way. Oleg out of the way. You are violating the Rules by blocking the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Lie down, Mr. Olege, from your seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up. Sign up for, now, discussing this bill from factions. Oleg. Dear colleagues, please, one minute, a line, Mr. Laishka. Turn on the microphone from the spot, please. And then we're going to talk about the ruling that we're discussing right now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to go to the students and students of the New York Agrarian List of Santa Claus. It's very good, boys and girls, that you're in this room right now. Look, it's an empty hall. I think if your teachers hadn't come to work, they'd probably have been fired. I think if one of you hadn't gone to school, you'd be counted on your own. Parliamentary deputies feel that they do not need to go, work, receive wages and live well. That is why we propose to reduce the number of parliaments to 250 to go to work, not to talk. Well, finally, when you talk about how you care about young people. To begin with, make sure that these students who are going to work tomorrow work so that they have a scholarship today. Ask the teachers when their last salary was raised, teachers of PTU, technicians, and pilots. If you care about the future of children from rural families, from low-income families, restore state-owned funding for professional and technical.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u7	Thank you. Thank you, fellows of honor! One minute she was on the line. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask to prevent the Presidium from working in Parliament. Dear colleagues, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that we are discussing the ruling on the date of the parliamentary hearings – December 2018. And I ask, after our discussion, that Mr. Spiowakovsky announce the date that we will have already set up under the protocol, under the transcript for discussion and participation in parliamentary hearings. Please, from Rebirth Group, National Deputy Shapov. Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u8	I'd like you to give Lithuania a word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u9	Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u10	. Deputies! It is good to be advised that when the Supreme Council demonstrates absolute integrity and does not work, then we need to look to such an area as education, science and culture, hoping that in this way it will be possible to force the deputies to join the session room and make the right decision. I think, by addressing the presiding and, in general, the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that part of the deputies, in particular the Radical faction, are absolutely right when they block the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, requiring consideration of the key issue that applies to the lives of the entire Ukrainian people, because if there are insurmountable tariffs, if people die, then talking about human capital would be absolutely unnecessary. And I think that there are all the legal, regulatory grounds for bringing this matter up to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the deputies have to be determined, they support what is happening today in terms of genocide against Ukrainian citizens in part of the insurmountable payments when people have nothing to survive for, and then we'll talk about human capital. And I understand why they're not asking this question. It is not because of the need to vote, and members of the pro-dominant factions have been told that they should not support this decision in any way. Let's count with the people's deputies of Ukraine. And so now I see when they can't make any decisions -- let's look at the problem of education, and then we go to the Chernobyl people, and we force them to vote or burn these bills. Now essentially, I don't think that the parliamentary hearings will fix the situation, even though I absolutely support this draft decision, because they've passed bad laws in the area of education reform, they've ruined the established order that was, they've come up with new words, let's say, "The teacher's love for the child, and that determines the place and destination of the teacher," now we have to say "child centerism." They've introduced the term "New Ukrainian School," and I'm proposing who didn't go to "New Ukrainian School," to look in a rural area called "New Ukrainian School" -- carpets and two pillows that the teacher brought to school, and one cube that was sent to us as humanitarian aid from Holland. We can hold dozens of hearings, but there will be no sense if we have such a Pharisee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u11	I understand your position. Please, from the "Peter Prashenko Block" position to present, the factions, about the ruling under discussion, Maxim Chicken. Please, Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, I'm in construction. The point is that we want to thank the author group of this draft decision led by Professor Alexander Spiowakovsky, who know the problems of education not in books, not in films of art, not in words of politicians, but in their own real lives, because they are professional educators who care about and live these problems every day. Look at the very appropriate title of this project: "The balanced development of human capital: the task of education and science." That's right, because everybody knows the best investments in the world at all times, everything. There have always been, there will be, and there will be, investments in education. It's not an investment in the past, it's not a memory, it's an investment in the future, it's tomorrow. And I'm very sorry to hear a lot of words from politicians today that talk a lot about problems, but they don't suggest anything: what concrete steps should be taken. And in society, it's long since come to light, let it be serious, but it's a very open and constructive need for such a dialogue, for such disputes. And it's suggested that we don't delay in time. And given what happened to us today, the educational day in the Supreme Council, in the near future, two months later, it's April 10th, as the author of this draft decision suggested, to hold this open discussion and determine what are the main tasks of science and education for 2019 and for the coming years. So the faction votes in favour. We're backing it up. Let's work and let's offer constructive solutions. The government and politicians owed money to the education community. You owe us, we owe you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u13	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the People's Front faction, Michael Bondar. Ah, he's handing over to his colleague Mr. Cremen, Taras the Cremen. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u14	Taras Kremen, People's Front. We've discussed the issue and development of human capital on a number of occasions in this session hall, and I want to remind you that in 2014, we even created a commission for the future, and this was one of the first decisions of this call to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What has changed over the years? A number of bills supported, the education budget increased. But unfortunately, we couldn't solve the main question: whether we were able to capitalize on the intelligence of the nation; whether we were able to concentrate our capacities and resources in educational centers; whether we had saved science schools; and, at the same time, those developments that might have preceded time. I want to remind all of us that we should not be detached from the dynamics of statistics and conquering the civilized world. One of these is sociological measurements that give society every year hope for development effectiveness. And there's a human capital development index. And Ukraine gradually, but it improves these indicators, but yet, to get into the tens of the most gifted nations of the world, it's not enough to talk about it -- honey is not enough to grease the mouth. This requires direct investment in the development of education, science, and innovation. But I would like to remind you of the parameters that were set out a year ago at the World Economic Forum in Davos. The five key rules that make up the success of the nation’s development. This is, first of all, generating and moning innovations, this is funding startups. This is the development of human capital that we need to talk about in these walls. This is international trade and investment. It's an institutional system and a deregulation of government structures and an expansion of markets. Of course, and in this room we're not going to solve this problem, because we have to increase the revenue for the opening of new markets. We need to learn to work in the sphere of public-private partnership. Just two weeks ago at a committee meeting, we discussed the issue of the approval of the Aerospace Agency's development programme for the next five years. And no matter how much we invest in our space development, the space nation has every opportunity to lose its authority: because we need to rebuild production, because we need to involve the private sector, because we need to open up new markets. So I sincerely hope that these hearings, as a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will be supported. And as far as vocational education is concerned. I appeal to my colleagues in Parliament: let's pass the Vocational and Technical Education Act during this convening, and we don't have to do it on point to resolve the issues of individual schools and Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u15	Thank you, colleagues. I want to remind you that not all factions did. Please, from the Opposition Block, our colleague, Doubenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u16	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The bill is now again being considered, of course, important in terms of the development of education, but not in terms of its application, because it is once again the same recommendation for parliamentary hearings, it is once again the absence of concrete real action, that is, the empty lies that this coalition is engaged in, which is nothing concrete, real, unfortunately cannot offer. Do these hearings need to be heard? Of course they do. And the Opposition Block, as always, will support any social initiatives aimed at improving the position of Ukrainian citizens, the situation. But what we want to say, instead, is that the less attractiveness of the Ukrainian environment in the education environment is not caused by the lack of attention on the part of the State, the lack of funding, but of course this is a serious problem in the way of education, the lack of social elevators for young people. Young people who have very well completed secondary education institutions, higher education institutions, vocational and technical institutions, are faced with such an unwillingness by the state to give decent work, to solve the problem of employment. This is the first time. Secondly, young people, it loses interest in living in Ukraine because of the uncontrolled environment that exists today. How could the current authority not say that it is fighting corruption, unfortunately, it has led it, this corruption, and it has offered no new message to the Ukrainian society rather than destruction, industrial deindustrialization, economic decline, citizen poverty. So, of course, these hearings need to be held. This decision needs to be made, but the main problems facing the Ukrainian society are the establishment of peace and economic development, not yet solved by this coalition or by the President or by a valid government. And only after this coalition has changed, after the transformation of another person than the one who holds the office of President and Prime Minister, through the establishment of peace and development can we talk about certain perspectives for young people and for the development of the economy as a whole, and for the entire Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u17	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, or all factions, were able to take the floor to discuss the decision? Thank you. So now we have a recording of the performances by the Ukrainian national deputies. We've got 15 minutes. Please, colleagues, please sign up. And I would like to draw the attention of all the deputies that the author of the decree of the People's Deputy Spiowakovsky proposes that these hearings take place on April 10th. If we vote on this decision, that is the date. Please, People's Deputy Barna, give me your word. People's MP Barna! You have the floor, People's Deputy Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u18	Praise Jesus Christ! One wise man said that if we did not invest in education, we would eventually have to invest in the construction of prisons. And obviously all the problems related to the education system need to be publicized and especially the hearings need to be conducted so that the representatives in power, both legislative and executive, as well as the regional officials present, know about the problems. Because it is the close cooperation of a low-level education network with the authorities of the state that enables us to produce the most successful, effective strategy for the development of the education system, starting with preschool, school, extra-school, secondary special and higher education. And the problems that have accumulated over the decades in the education system of Ukraine can begin to solve the very existing composition of the Supreme Council. We have done much, but there are still a number of other precedents to consider. Now, more than ever, we need to pay more attention to preschool education than ever before, and we need to pay more attention to preschool education in order to get our children off the street, from alcohol, from tobacco, from drugs. We need to pay attention to specialized technical education, secondary education, because we need qualified workers. We also need to pay attention to higher education, where there are too many low-skilled graduates, as higher education is very often -- some, not all -- turned into business projects that make money, and the quality of a graduate of a particular specialty or college is quite low. So to raise the profile of Ukrainian education, to preserve it at the level that Ukraine was famous for, especially in the field of IT technology, IT, engineering, applied sciences, we now need to pay more attention than ever to society and power and education itself. And this is especially true of the formation of a healthy patriotic intelligent nation in school. If the education system and subjects influence this, especially in the section of applied sciences, then reference should be made to the history books. And the main thing is to provide and guarantee mandatory nutrition for all students in all classes and schools. And then we'll have our healthy, educational, intelligent, strong.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u19	Thank you, Mr. Barna. And please welcome Taras Kremen. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u20	Taras Kremen, People's Front. First of all, I would like to thank our colleagues for breaking the issue of the country's security, and today we are forced to consider and, thank God, issues related to the reform of education and science in Ukraine. And maybe this day will come into history that we will be able to make so many very important decisions in one day. And I would call it an educational day in the Ukrainian Parliament. And the more often such days will be, the closer we will get to the effective outcome of our work and parliamentary activity. And now, essentially. It would be inappropriate for us to speak only from the categories of Ukrainian reality at these parliamentary hearings. The world has gone a long way. And human capital development programmes funded by other countries in the world that try to get closer to better living conditions for their citizens, to provide comfortable environmental transport, to a safe environment, to work out secondary wastes and many other options -- these are all the results of their harmony with the world, with the environment and their intentions to make their lives comfortable, decent and effective. And Ukraine today faces the challenge of developing a model that we, unfortunately, have never been able to protect or create. So I think at these hearings we should definitely consider a new model, which should be short-term in the next 50 years, and, of course, long-term. Secondly, we need to figure out who's going to do it, who's going to do it. Whether it's academic institutions, whether it's a higher education system, whether it's a ministry, or once again a parliament, who knows. Thirdly, at which level we're going to invite and engage the business. Whether a business is willing to invest in Ukrainian science or not will put businesses, including foreign businesses, at risk. We should give them a guarantee and hope that they will be able to work effectively. Now, with regard to the kind of education that's higher than that. I'm extremely concerned that we can give technical education a chance. And there's been a lot of talk about the low level of math that graduates of our schools have. And that's what the D.O.D. is all about. But let us not forget both shipbuilding and Mikolai. I'm also talking about agrarian education, which should give the agrarian state not only the hope of becoming a stable resource and a source of subsidies, we have to produce products and be competitive. So I hope that these hearings, which will take place in April, as we plan, will answer our society and give us great hope. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u21	Thank you. And the next speech, please, Sergey Kaplin, is your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u22	At the entrance to the University of Stellenboa in South Africa, the words are very wise: "To destroy a nation, you don't need nuclear weapons, you need to destroy its education and health." How have MPs and coalitions over the past few years destroyed the health and education system? He appoints inadequate health ministers and fails to finance education and health care. Instead, factions in the parliament of political parties don't eat -- they eat up, they eat up, they just eat up, they spend billions of dollars on political advertising, which come out of the pocket of a simple Ukrainian. I think that if we were to devote these funds to health and education, to the support of our teachers and doctors, how would we put money spent on financing and maintaining national MPs, ministers, their substitutes and other government members into strategic needs for Ukrainian education and health care? And of course, these things need to be fought, fought in parliament, near the rostrum, in the Ukrainian courts, trying to score, but the main thing is to fight, my friends, until the end. If the Social Democratic Party had at least 10 to 15 deputies, we would have seen how, after the statement and the end, they would have stood to die for pensions, for wages, for the protection of a simple person, for her constitutional rights, for her freedom and for her interests. And all this cool blocking, court-agreed winning and all that sort of thing eventually leads to another generation of quality, useful for political parties of populism, but not for the development of adequate health, education and the whole state and state. So, of course, we support all of our efforts, all of our efforts today's authorities to think about and make money, especially for the support of our children, teachers, and doctors. But it should always be remembered that the development of health and education does not begin with our empty papers, which we receive here in general, not from declarations, but from money, with the right allocation of this money for the benefit of teachers, doctors, and other ordinary people, our villagers — all those who today need maximum protection and maximum support. So I urge the House to vote in favour of this bill, but one more thing to remember. Teachers, teachers, would like to be at home in warmth and in good, when not cold, not cold, checked for sutures, and children would like to learn in cozy, warm rooms, classrooms. And so what's relevant is the question of reducing the price of gas, as my team's analysis suggests, four times.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u23	Thank you. Please give the following address, National Deputy Mikhailo Bondar. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u24	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please give it to Singer Alexander. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u25	Badly. Singakovsky? Please give the House of Commons a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u26	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again under the transcript, to be clear, I said this, instead of December 19th, as it says in the text, April 10th. This question was agreed with the Supreme Council’s apparatus. Now, about the discussion that is now taking place, including those comments made by Oleg Valeriovich. Look, first. The committee is constantly working on it. together with the Ministry of Education and Science on the basis of the already special laws on vocational education, on the professional excellence of education, on adult education, on change and on major changes in the higher education system. So our committee will hold a large committee meeting on the basis of Kharkiv Polytechnics on February 13th. And I take this opportunity to invite everyone who's critical to take a concrete part, because there's going to be 700 people participating in this wonderful place that we can call a student place, a university place. Next. Thanks to the committee and your support we're in the first part of today's session, we've made a fundamental decision -- to increase scholarships and increase the Supreme Council's prize by five times. It's really a historic decision. Next. Thanks to the position of the Committee on Science and Education, we solved the issue, and the Ministry of Finance and agreed to it, we left 69 colleges in the structure of state universities. So in cooperation with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we had to understand that, for example, we couldn't really put the vocation to the local level, because the principle of building that we had the vocational schools, colleges, technikums, universities was a branch. We put it on decentralization, and as a result, we have problems. But, look, we're turning around and we're going to create big educational holdings. That is, universities, when they have the opportunity to join the university structure by mutual agreement with colleges, and thus we give our young people the opportunity to build their own educational career under the conditions of a large educational holding. That's why this job is going. And we need parliamentary hearings just to make an integrated decision that takes into account all the positions: social, economic, medical and educational. Dear colleagues, we must vote for this. We will not vote, and we will continue to have a systemless, point-to-point policy of blocking the holes that we have today both in education and in medicine and in the infrastructure of prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u27	Thank you, Your Honor. And I want to address the Ukrainian national MPs. Now we have the last speech in this discussion. I very much ask that everyone return to the session room, because in three minutes there will be a vote on the Parliamentary Hearing Order. Now, please, National Deputy Brichenko, People's Front. Your word. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u28	Give the word to John Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u29	Mr. John Savz, please turn on the microphone. Colleagues, please return to the session room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u30	Thank you, Madam Vote. Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you again. There should be no discussion here as to a number of laws concerning young people concerning our children, our scientists, our people who care about learning and want a better destiny for our nation. I want to thank the Committee on Education and Science, which is concerned and doing everything possible to ensure that we have schools, we have institutions, we have universities, so that teachers can be provided, teachers, all that is necessary to introduce the program that is necessary for teaching in schools. Well, I would like to emphasize the military establishment of our state, which is also necessary for our state at this time when Ukraine is at war with the 'Moscow horde'. So there are a number of questions for us to take into account, and in the future, to help start financially, because teachers who are in military institutions, universities, they have to be provided, socially provided, first of all, because they are officers, they're the elite of our state. So I'm talking about this, this is training specials like tactical training, operational tactical training. We need to know that. They're officers who run a special warehouse, so they have to be provided to everyone. In addition, I would like to pay attention to the program of patriotic education, because it should be at the top of our agenda -- the upbringing of our young people. So we have to do everything we can to confirm that. As far as Bill 9109 is concerned, it is certain that we must vote. In addition, I urge all colleagues to enter the hall and vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u31	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Now it's closing and there's going to be a vote. So in two minutes there will be a vote on the draft decree. And I ask all the heads of factions to invite the national deputies to the hall. Please prepare for the vote. Let me remind you, by noon we were able to support both the decisions proposed by the Education Committee. And I'm sure we can mobilize now. It's only very important to be in the hall, to go into the hall and prepare for the vote in two minutes, the heads of the factions. Now the final word is for the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education to Sperm Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear friends! This bill, Oleg Valeriyovich, I hope, brings us all together. And the Radical Party of Ukraine will also join the vote, open the window. Dear colleagues! We need to move on to a systemic solution to what's going on with population migration. We need to systematically address the issue of young people receiving quality education, quality health services and access to appropriate infrastructure for well-being. It is the parliamentary hearings that must ensure the work of the experts, and we must get the right decision, which should be a guide for us to adopt a system of laws or make appropriate changes to laws that would stop this negative trend. Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council of Ukraine is the highest collegiate body that defines this policy. I'm addressing you people's deputies, understanding your criticism, realizing that we haven't been able to do everything the way we see it. But that's exactly why parliamentary hearings are being held, in order to get a common position, a position that would allow us to stop the demographic processes that are taking place in Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Please come, vote and show the Ukrainian people that we care not only about power, not just about gas, not just about tariffs, but about how our Ukraine will be rebuilt. Thank you all, and I hope that we will have the same productive vote that took place at the time of the adoption of Decrees 9505 and 9506. Thank you all. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u33	Thank you, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u34	So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, please come into the hall. Please return from the government's beds for two minutes, colleagues, to the hall to take part in the vote. Because then you can't vote and I have to go back. Please return to the hall. Everyone in the beds, take up their jobs. So, colleagues, we're done here, and I'm putting to the vote the bill on Parliamentary hearings on "The balanced development of human capital in Ukraine: the task of education and science" (No. 9109) on the proposal of a committee as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, let's support our committee, please vote, please support the 9109 draft. Everyone is kindly and responsible to take part in the vote, and please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. We support, we support young people and we vote for our educational committee. [[16:55:22]] For 227 Decision taken. Decisions accepted, colleagues. And now, I have another motion, another ruling, also of youth policy 7383, is the draft Recommendation of Parliamentary Hearings "Formation and implementation of State youth policy in Ukraine in conditions of decentralization" (7383). And this will be the final decision in support of young people, which we have a chance to consider today. So we go to Rule 7383. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote. [[16:56:15]] For the 110. There's no need for a reduced procedure, I don't understand. But, well, we're going to draft Decree 7383. And I invite the representative of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports, Mikol Romanovic, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u35	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! On November 15, 17, I stress, in the 17th year, there were parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine on the theme "Formation and implementation of state youth policy in Ukraine in conditions of decentralization", this is registration number 7383. Until now, however, recommendations for parliamentary hearings have not been accepted. Recommendations are a kind of road map for youth policy, since the participants made sound suggestions to the draft recommendations on how to solve key problems for young people. In addition, a working group was set up to work on recommendations for parliamentary hearings. These hearings have shown that severe problems remain for young people, housing insecurity, the complexity of employment, lack of perspectives, limited access to quality education and medical services, and poor health for our young people. The committee at its hearing on 21 March 2018 – already, honourable colleagues, will soon be one year after this meeting – reviewed the draft decision and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a revised draft decision in the first reading and to adopt it as a whole. Dear colleagues! In view of the fact that the Supreme Council cannot vote on this draft recommendation and even consider it for a long time, it is necessary to replace some of the tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In paragraph 2, in particular, replace the words "September 1, 2018" with "June 1, 2019." In paragraph 1 of paragraph 2 of the recommendations in paragraphs 1 and 2 replace the words "by 1 May 2018" with the words "by 1 May 2019". Dear colleagues! We don't have the right to fail this question, young people expect us not to be populism, but specific, informed decisions. Dear colleagues! I go to all colleagues from all factions, from all groups, to interfractional ones. Dear colleagues, young people who spoke in this session room about the problems she was concerned about when young people spoke about decentralization, and this participation, the participation of young people directly in shaping new youth policies when young people were speaking in this session hall and talking about their future, and those who are fighting on the front, and those who stand for the future of Ukraine, both on sports and on creative fronts and on other intellectual fronts, and it is important for them that the Ukrainian Parliament support this decision. Because there are things in these recommendations that make it possible for the Ukrainians. All ministries, the Cabinet of Ministers as a whole, local self-government bodies, territorial communities to create mechanisms and, most importantly, concrete measures for young people to be able to implement themselves. I'm talking to all my colleagues once again: honourable colleagues, let's support our young people, because they all talk from the rostrums and from the place, and from all the TV channels about how to support young people. Let's make it concrete. by specific vote that the Ukrainian Parliament supports young people and supports these recommendations of parliamentary hearings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this ruling. Please, from the opposition block to the word, Alexander Doubenkov is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u37	Alexander Doubenkov, Opposition Block. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now considering the next draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision to hold parliamentary hearings on the prospects for the development of young citizens, young people, under conditions of decentralization. But unfortunately, how. We are also advocates of decentralization, as well as fiscal, financial decentralization as a political power, but the implementation of this idea, which was carried out by a coalition and a valid authority, has not produced the desired results and results. The point is that, in particular when a series of decentralization bills were adopted for the Ukrainian community, the cost of maintaining professional and technical institutions was actually translated into local budgets. And at the same time, the local self-government authorities, when they accepted the changes, many of them were not prepared to make funding for the maintenance of appropriate professional and technical facilities. So the coalition and the current authorities actually destroyed the designated branch of vocational and technical education. This is one of the most unfavourable news about the development of young people in Ukraine, and these are the most socially vulnerable types of the population, these are orphans who have been properly trained in boarding schools who are deprived of parental care, persons with disabilities, or persons who are disabled. Parents who have no opportunity or parents at all, to teach their children and to gain more professional education, education in another direction. In this regard, there is a lack of professions in Ukraine, most of all. A greater shortage of professions, not in lawyers, not in economists, but in good doctors, good tractors, cranes, welders. That is, the designated bulkhead, unfortunately, has been destroyed or destroyed in many areas because of politics, public policy or its absence, the inadequacy of state policy, which is implemented by the coalition. We also note that fiscal decentralization, which also affects the development of education, has a negative role to play, whereas the filling of local budgets is unsatisfactory. In particular, the tax on the income of natural persons. The Opposition Block has repeatedly demanded that 25 percent of the government budget be directed towards local budgets, local self-government budgets, but unfortunately we are not being heard and that this situation needs to be rectified. Youths will develop and education will develop self - sufficient.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u38	Thank you. 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u39	Young people can hope for development in a developed educational infrastructure that can only be supported by financially capable local governments, which unfortunately is not due to the so-called fiscal decentralization of coalition and power.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u40	Thank you. And, please, the position of the People's Front faction is now presented by the national MP, Taras Kremen. Mr. Taras, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u41	Taras Kremen, People's Front. It is not a coincidence that today's papers, and these are the draft regulations that we have, thank God, supported -- both with regard to named scholarships to young scientists, and with regard to scholarships to young doctors of science, and with regard to hearings on the development of human capital, relate to the subject of future parliamentary hearings offered by our dear Committee on Youth Policy. Because we are not looking for problems, we are looking for solutions. And that's why I think one of the main things is that it's a question of improving the quality of education at all levels, starting with preschool and continuing education throughout life. The second important ingredient is usually to look for additional resources that will help our universities today, our schools, to be able to do so. I can give examples of how today the private sector is effectively using and creating effective educational environments at various universities in Ukraine. I can give an example of Suma State University, where new specialties have been discovered, where the private sector is interested in having quality added value to their knowledge, which means a competitive diploma and a guaranteed job in the companies of the Summary. This refers to the issue of affordable housing. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have not been able to finance fully the activities of the State Fund for the Promotion of Youth Construction, resulting in the suspension of youth programs in the extent to which they could develop according to the ranks of young people. And this is not just about young scientists, not just successful athletes, not just doctors, who would be able to get their social housing in populated areas, in areas, in urban areas, in district areas, and this is about our military personnel, it's about our military doctors, it's about our law enforcement officers, other services, and the services that are needed today in the labor market to help improve society. The third important element to be discussed is accessibility and education, access to employment and self-employment. And most importantly, you have to give your word to young people, you don't have to decide for them with the kind of populist statements that we hear very often in this session room. Young people should decide for themselves how they should go, where to find opportunities and resources, and they would tell them what tools they needed to do so. Let's unify the hall to support the parliamentary hearings initiative, and let's hear it at last, young people, or they'll never see us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u42	Thank you, Your Honor. And we invite you to the words of the national deputy John Sporish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u43	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. It's nice, though, that we have adopted today's Supreme Council Award Order is young scientists. Once again, we have adopted regulations to balance the development of human capital in Ukraine, which is the task of education and science. And I think it says again that we don't have secondary and parliamentary hearings, and drafts, are all the main ones. And today we've heard our deputy, the first, the committee's heads, this is Mikli Velichovitch, that since the 17th year we can't give any advice to these parliamentary hearings that have taken place with us. And that's why the question of the formation and implementation of state youth policy in Ukraine in conditions of decentralization is also quite important. Let us mention these parliamentary hearings where our committee was held. First of all, we've seen how many national MPs have spoken and participated from almost every faction, maybe even two or three deputies have spoken on this issue. The local executives, from local self - government, also performed public, religious organizations. Because in conditions of decentralization, we have to give so much to young people to understand how to behave in these conditions. Of course, young people need to do everything they can to ensure that decentralization allows local deputies to pay a lot of attention to it, because we know very well when we transfer all the funds, almost all the funds to the places, and there will be no more funding for different programs for young people at the top of the bottom, which is where the leaders of individual territorial communities and others should decide. That's why I think we should pay enough attention to that today and make the right decision, and at the end of the 17th year, we should vote today in favour of this draft decision. I think that today we should concentrate the entire hall and, just like in education, we should vote today for this draft decision. So I urge everyone to vote unanimously, all factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u44	Thank you. I would like to remind you that Mr. John has expressed his position on the Peter Dusty Block. And now, from the Self-Help faction, Anna Romanov presents her position. Please, Mrs. Anna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, distinguished people of Ukraine, I will present the position of the Self-Help faction. We will certainly vote and support these recommendations of parliamentary hearings. But I want to point out that, imagine -- I'm talking to the television audience and those who are listening now -- it's young people's problems that the Supreme Council can't vote for them for a year now. What is more, the various bills relating to young people in the Supreme Council of the Eighth Assembly were either failed because they were put on the agenda on Wednesday, when there were no votes, or not even in the room. Why is this so? On the one hand, everyone's talking about young people, about population ageing, about all young people leaving, and on the other hand, it's not reflected in Parliament. I'm going to open a little secret because the agenda is shaped by what principles? The first principle is the so-called service of interests, business interests of power. And the second principle, this is particularly relevant before the elections, is the demand for populist laws to accommodate the electorate, not the people, but the electorate that will come and vote for some populist law. Sadly, the low percentage of youths are politically active today because of their frustration. And it's already been calculated by the polytechnologists who serve today's authority, which few young people will come to the elections. Therefore, both the recommendations of these parliamentary hearings and the bills that protect our young people and create conditions for them to live in their own country are postponed. That's the secret that this Supreme Council is failing all the laws necessary for our future state. "The self-help union to ensure that words do not differ from words, and it is for the daily order to form those bills that create a strategy for the successful future of our country and not for the very existence of our country, but for the very laws that serve the business interests of today's government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Anna. And please, from the "Fatherland" faction, Sergey Eutuszek gives the word to John Krulk. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u47	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, this decision needs to be voted on, and the "Fatherland" faction will support it. Although let's face it, it's a more declarative thing than real and practical. I would like to remind you that the real support of young people, as it says here, decentralization would be if Parliament supported the bill on the creation and functioning of youth centres. When those youth clubs, which were built and not functioning in Soviet times, would have been given a new opportunity through a network of youth centres, if we had formed a real state youth policy in line with the requirements and standards set by the Council of Europe, and if youth mobility was not ensured by the way Ukrainian youth went abroad and never returned to Ukraine again, but by the way that young people came from Europe, from the European Union that would open up to Ukraine, and that would be true European integration for our nation. What really bothers young people? Young people are concerned about the three issues: accessible and quality education, employment, employment, and housing. And I'd like to ask you a question right now, and what programs do we have for youth housing lending? None. Is there today a chance for a young person to start his own business and get a loan of 3-5 percent to be able to make himself available in Ukraine? No, there's no possibilities, no credit. Is it possible for a young person today to get a job with proper pay? There is no such possibility. What if the young answer? And a young man answers one thing: he picks up a suitcase and walks abroad. And most of these young people never return to Ukraine again. That's why we can conduct hearings, either under decentralization or without decentralization, but until the real state housing programs, with regard to the first job, with regard to youth loans so that they can start their business and startups will not be implemented in practice, until then young people will continue to leave Ukraine. So I'm convinced that only the programs offered by Fatherland that Julia Timoshenko proposes that young people go back to Ukraine and be able to implement themselves can really put youth policies into practice, not into theory and not declarative. Fatherland will vote, but it will also change the approach to youth policy in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, not all factions have been able to register because some have blocked the rostrum and have not been able to sign up for it. I have been approached by complaints from several factions and coalitions, and opposition from colleagues who complain about the inequality of opportunities and working conditions in Parliament, that they have not been allowed from the rostrum to present the faction's position, particularly, and the Peter Prashenko Block, and other factions complain. The Radical Party Laska asks, of course, she has the full right to speak. Please, out of place, who's going to perform? Out of the way, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Equal opportunities. Levels of rights and opportunities. [[B in m in s a l in]] And it's not your private parliament, it's not your private rostrum. [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't have the right to break up Parliament's work either. Please, from the place, Oleg Valeriovich Lazko. Please turn on the microphone in its workplace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u49	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u50	Have you finished your speech? Please, again. Three minutes, please. Turn on the microphone. Please turn on Oleg Valeriovich’s location. Three minutes. And another 30 minutes for a lineup. Three and a half minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u51	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u52	I changed my mind about speaking. Dear colleagues, are there still willing from groups and factions to act? No, it's not. I ask you to sign up from the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please. I'm asking you to sign up for the Ukrainian National Deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm with you, Mr. Oleg. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Please sign in. Please, National Deputy Germany. Dear Mr. German, I must apologize for not being able to step out of the rostrum right now. Out of the way, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u53	Good afternoon. First of all, I'm sorry, Oleg. I'm sorry if he won't forgive me. Question is if. If you're bringing this up to date, I'd like to say that today these issues that are being addressed need not just a discussion, but a regulatory legislative regulation, well, at least, by regulations. And so when we talk about the kind of decisions that are made for the consideration of the Supreme Council, we should go to the point of its effectiveness and relevance. Please tell me, for today's day in the first quarter of the 19th year, what is the zero that can be settled by this decision? This is just another step with regard to popularization and confirmation because there is still a living part or a snag of the political coalition as a frontist. I would very much like for the Supreme Council to be determined in the future that we have little time left, and we should clearly conclude that if, for today's day, any kind of question raised for the consideration of the Supreme Council, there are no legal consequences, no more political consequences, they cannot be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There can be no asking these questions. We simply fill the voids of the legislative initiatives with what we do not know — political cracks, political speeches. And we see nothing here and we support those colleagues who stand there and demand what the Opposition Block has long insisted that, my friends, we agreed, let's make a decision to end the tariff genocide. This is what the opposition platform calls the actions of the authorities. So let's accept and support this. People will appreciate it, whether it's populism or something. But if we're content and we're grouped, we can work it out. And that's why I'd like to have substantive discussions in the Supreme Council and a proper solution to the issues. Thank you. "The opposition platform is for life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u54	Thank you. And the next performance is the People's Deputy Melnichenko. Dear colleague, unfortunately you can't come out of the rostrum, it's blocked. I'd like you to step out of the way. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u55	I'm very sorry that I have such an opportunity that the Radical Party has blocked the rostrum today. But, as they say, you can communicate your thoughts from your point of view. I'm glad to see you today. I don't agree with our colleague who said we're going from empty to empty today. We have indeed dedicated the south to our young ones. Of course, tariffs are very important, and other things. But if we, the Ukrainian Parliament, do not pay attention to our young people, we will have no tariffs, no state, and nothing else in the future. And that's why these are very important things. I'm glad we found time today. Young people are our future. Young people are smart, beautiful. Yes, today they see themselves as some abroad, a lot of young people working abroad, but I'm sure the time is coming, and we as politicians will do everything we can to get our young people back, to gain experience, and to build our state, and we all want our young, our children, our grandchildren to live in a European strong state. As I say, we declare that we are going to the European Union, I believe that we will come there, but when and what the European Union will be like, we don't know. But what we're going to do to make the standards of European life come to our home country, to our Ukraine is the truth. Today we have many problems. Today, what was actually destroyed in the Soviet Union, groups, sections, not completely destroyed, they are in many cities, but they need to be given more attention, young people need to be removed from the driveways, taken away from beer, cigarettes, and engaged in sports. The measures of our cities are of great importance, and decentralization has also given impetus to this process. And I'm sure most of our young people are smart, strong, patriotic young people that we can rely on, and to whom we will hand over the strong, I'm sure, a strong European state in their hands. And in the future, they will be both national deputies and city heads. Maybe by then there'll be a Radical Party, maybe they'll be members of the Radical Party, we won't rule it out, the other parties, but I'm sure together we'll do what our young people will and will live in our country and give up all our energy to build our state. And once again, I urge everyone to support our young people, to support our state. We work, we learn, and we do a lot of good things together. And it's gonna be okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u56	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Ivan Sauka. I'm sorry, you have to speak out of place because unfortunately, the rostrum is blocked by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u57	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Ukrainians, once again on your behalf, I would like to address all of us as members of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to engage in populism when it comes to young people, our future. So we have to do everything we can to ensure that these issues that concern our state, which concerns our future, our army is by no means to be used, we speak, in our own personal interests. Now, concerning the substance of a certain bill. In order to ensure the effectiveness of State youth policy in decentralization, priority needs to be given: first, to provide young people with housing; to ensure that young people have access to quality education; to support investment in the potential of young people; and to promote healthy and safe lifestyles. As far as this is concerned, every school has to have sports groups and not named for certain interests that apply to folding at some cost, when a trainer comes to train young people, in order to be healthy our nation and be charged with certain costs for them to pay, and in order for it to be free and these trainers still have to be paid and placed in the state as in schools, as well as in educational institutions. First of all, support for talented young people, support for young people in difficult situations, the development of youth infrastructure, support for youth and sports infrastructure, and appropriate practices. In rural areas, that's the most important thing. We should not forget rural areas, schools in rural areas that are needed, especially with regard to the development of our talented children. And besides, when it comes to the patriotic upbringing of our young people, it should come first. Dear colleagues, we should not ignore this, but we should now go into the session room and vote in favour of these bills that our future generation needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u58	Thank you, Your Honor. The next speech is the national deputy Mr. Kiral gives the floor to Mrs. Oleni Sotnik's esteemed colleague. Mrs. Helena, you have to speak out of place, unfortunately, the rostrum is blocked, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u59	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I want to say first of all that while the parties are doing their ratings, it's just that the Self-Help Party has recently done a big survey and it's young people between the ages of 18 and 35 to determine what the key problems are today. Because we think that leaving young people and actually losing Ukraine, as some people have pointed out today, the future, in fact, young people are now. This is a major threat not only to the state, it is a major threat, including to the economy of the country. I would like to remind you that today we have young people between the ages of 18 and 29 million. I think unofficially this figure may even be less than twice that. At the same time, we have a retirement age or a pre-retirement age of 13 million. So it's almost twice as much. This means that as of today, Ukraine is experiencing a serious problem, and who in general will be working and producing the gross domestic product that is intended to provide prosperity, including a stable future for the country and for those who live in it. It has been pointed out that we have to make a decision in which there are a lot of general words, and that the Supreme Council has done a great service to the young people that she spoke about today. So let me tell you that it's up to the Supreme Council to put, for example, specific figures into the country's budget. For example, on the national youth housing program. Over the past 5 years, 277 families, young families from this program have received funding, while 111 thousand citizens are in line. Compare these numbers. In five years, there were only 277 families. At the same time, the state budget, neither in this nor in the last year, regardless of the many amendments, including Self-Help, was not increased by a penny. The D.A., the D.A., the law enforcement, the entire force block has tripled over the last five years, and in some cases five times. And that means that the Supreme Council doesn't have a wish, it doesn't see young people as a priority. Therefore, stop simply covering yourself with determinations and recommendations of hearings. We have real mechanisms, we don't use them, and we show young people how we treat them. And I think that as long as the Supreme Council doesn't start making absolutely specific decisions that will make or show at least a chance for young people to stay in this country, we don't even have the moral right to discuss it and to hide our recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u60	From "The People's Front" to "The Grandmaster" Mikola is invited to the floor. Oh, I'm sorry, MPs. I'm sorry. Now I'm going to turn on the MPs. Maybe I don't have that system on. No, the next one from the deputies is the Grand Chief. Look, right? Magnificent Mikola Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u61	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that the format of parliamentary hearings is one of the forms of parliamentary activity. It is during the parliamentary hearings that we have the opportunity to hear from our citizens in this session hall. We often talk about the need to listen to our citizens. And parliamentary hearings are the form of when in the session room, when from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, any citizen has the opportunity to make a statement and to convey his opinion, uncensored by a political position. So these recommendations that we now approve with you are the result of those very statements, those positions that we have heard from young people in this session room. I'd like to remind you that it's very important because it's because of these positions that we're shaping our political positions that are then formed into laws. I would like to say that we underestimate parliamentary hearings. Because parliamentary hearings indicate how a road map, for politicians, is for the whole state apparatus. So, dear colleagues, I am addressing you, independent of factions, political preferences. You know, we're on the committee when we're working on some projects, we're throwing our political preferences aside, because one of the policies that matters to us is politics that applies to young people. And what I'd like to say is that our committee put various bills on Wednesdays, and they passed. Because the committee’s position is that youth, sports, family and children are out of politics. And let's form this way so that our policies that we form in this room, that our laws, our decisions, go in people's interests. In this case, I refer once again to everyone, to reject all political differences and to focus on supporting this decision. I would like to address our colleagues, who now have their positions, to express their position at the rostrum of the Supreme Council. Let's take a vote and you'll show your position through the support of young people by pressing the green button and saying yes to youth policy. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u62	Thank you. And the closing statement is Kaplin Sergey Mikolayovich, colleagues. And I ask everyone to come into the hall, this is a closing statement, and I ask all the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, we've just heard a few speeches with you, and I've received some messages from young people and a few calls. And the reaction is very simple, young: what are you chasing? What are you talking about? What hearings? Share with young people the money that you spend billions of dollars on is totally unnatural for a country that is in a state of socio-economic crisis and war. Take the money from the factions, the political parties that are present in Parliament -- that's about a billion dollars. Expensive, not for the development of their parties, but for the promotion of their missing ideologies, but primarily for their political advertising and populism. For this government money, taken out of the pocket of a simple Ukrainian, they hang the boards, they take off the commercials, the radios, they buy whole twists in newspapers and magazines, fooling ordinary people. Reduce funding for phantom district and district government administrations that have not understood what they are doing in 15 or 17 years. Why do they run from one end of the corridor to the other, carrying paper or other? Spend this money on the development of youth culture, art, sports, and health support for young people. Take the billions, the tens of billions that they put in their pocket after they've taken a meal of ordinary Ukrainians, the four-pronged tariffs, and give it to the young. Give money to young people to support the creation of new jobs, to guarantee first place of employment, to form whole playgrounds, whole clusters in various cities and regions of our country for young people’s housing. Give young people money to engage in youth entrepreneurship, teach young people to take credit, and manage startups. Make a young person a real new priority for the Ukrainian State. No, I'm sorry, you spend this money on every festival, competition, leadership development program that was never in the Supreme Council, or in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, come back, eventually, face a simple man, to a young man. According to recent studies, the average family, the household, lives about — the whole family, think! – an average of 7,000 dollars, it's a father, a mother, a young man who brings home his salary in the house, together earning 6 or 7,000 dollars. Please tell me, what can parents do to help young ones? The tasks of the state today are fatherly with all the heart, with all the open soul to help a young man, to support him. And all these props, the papers, they eventually end up in one traditional place, on the toilet.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u64	So, colleagues, we're done here. Now the closing word is Grandmaster Mikola, one minute, or two minutes, and we go to the vote. I'm asking you all, colleagues, to come into the hall, we've demonstrated unity during the day on issues that concern young people, education and the support of Ukrainian youth. I hope everyone's in the hall right now, and we'll support this decision. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. Please, the closing word is Mikola Veličkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, while our colleagues are now entering the hall, I would like to address everyone again. Regardless of factions, political preferences, today we affirm the things that have been said in this session hall. I would like to reiterate that it is the young people who have spoken these questions, the problems that you are talking about right now, and what they are talking about, often, that you are talking about, but it is very important to us that this position of young people who have sounded in this session hall and broadcast throughout the country is reflected in this document -- precisely in the recommendations of parliamentary hearings. So I'm addressing everyone, now let's mobilize, let's support our young people, because otherwise everyone who doesn't vote will have a moral right to go and talk about some youth problems and ask why power or opposition doesn't solve them. I think we should vote now by pressing the green button and telling the young people: we hear you, we understand your problems. Even if we can't solve them now, but we can see that we have to solve this and we put ourselves on a road map as we should. In these parliamentary hearings we've put problems, we've talked about what ministry should be concerned about them. And there are also control points for every ministry, minister and local community to control. Let's vote and support our young people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u66	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Everyone, please take your seats. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. So, colleagues, take up jobs. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Come into the hall, colleagues. Whoever's in bed, go back to the hall. So I'm voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Regulation on the situation of young people in Ukraine on "Formation and implementation of State youth policy in Ukraine in conditions of decentralization" (No. 7383) on the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote. We support you, colleagues. We support Ukrainian youth. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:41:12]] For 172 172, colleagues. Too bad we had a positive vote all day. [[B in m in s a l in]] We didn't make it. Thank you, colleagues. So, colleagues. So, colleagues, this is a very sorry position. I'll put it back once. Colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of the return to Project Rule 7383. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:41:59]] For 171 Unfortunately, colleagues. Colleagues, I'm calling on the committee to transpose the ruling, according to the law, it's allowed, and we'll be able to look at it. I'm very sorry, but I have to announce that Decree 7383 has been rejected. And, colleagues, I was approached by a committee that draft Law 6656 would not put at risk today. And obviously that makes sense. I can only make those laws: either the second reading, or the decrees. And I now put to the vote the second law, which is in the second reading, 2431 is the draft Act amending the legislation on the protection of economic competition to determine the size of fines for violations of economic competition legislation by the authorities of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. My colleagues, I very much hope that the committees are working on Wednesday, and we will be able to establish the agenda. Regrettably, today I can make either decisions or second readings. The committee agreed, supported. It's the second reading, there's just a few rights, there's not many rights, and we can look at it. And I invite you to the report of the Committee on Economic Policy of Victoria Ptashnik. Please report. Please prepare for the amendments. Victoria the Birdman asked for a little more time. Not three, please. Five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u67	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill will contribute to the introduction of the principles of proportionality, legal certainty and non-discrimination in the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, as well as to increasing transparency and predictability of law enforcement practices for operators. What is most important in this project? This is that after its adoption, I hope that the Antimonopoly Committee's organs will use the method of calculating fines for violations of economic competition legislation for infringements of competition law, actually, for infringements of competition law. I want to say that this bill was passed in 2015, when no method of calculating fines was even considered. Moreover, our legislation today provides for fairly high fines for breaches of competition legislation, but how they are counted has always been unclear. In addition, the former management never wanted to introduce any methods just to allow them to negotiate with certain owners and impose fines that would be beneficial to them. But despite this, today the Antimonopoly Committee has developed and approved its method of calculating fines, but today it is not a legal act. So it's only the good will of the Antimonopoly Committee, tomorrow it can cancel it, change it in a way that they're comfortable with. You know, the recent practice of the Antimonopoly Committee, and unfortunately, as far as I'm concerned, the failed decisions that involved, including non-recognition by monopolies companies that belong to individual oligarchs, to me. As for me, this does not contribute to the development of competition in Ukraine and certainly does not make our market more attractive. That's why I'm going to ask you to adopt this law and actually make it a method of consideration. the settlement of fines imposed for breach of competition law to become a legal act at last, so that the Antimonopoly Committee is obliged to adopt such a method. Moreover, in our bill we point out what principles should be applied when the Antimonopoly Committee calculates fines. We also want the Antimonopoly Committee to be obliged, once again, to investigate violations of economic competition legislation and to impose fines that will be clearly established by the legal framework. Because, you know, when individual oligarchs can come to individual workers and make arrangements just for their position and either get minor punitive sanctions, or vice versa, get out of the water, it's definitely a shameful practice. As for me, the approach must be equal for all, and the Antimonopoly Committee must finally become such a powerful institution, which will be directed precisely to develop competition and the work of which will be aimed at combating the monopolism that, with market power, creates, violates competition legislation, creates cartels in markets, and as a result, we buy goods at higher prices, buy services that are imposed on us by oligarchs, not those that we choose ourselves, and we get some services of improper quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u69	If I may add, by closing, I will say that this bill has been drafted to implement the Association Agreement, because it is precisely part of the fourth article 255 of the Agreement that it is determined that competition authorities should approve and publish a document explaining the principles of determining any fines imposed for infringements of competition legislation. The proposals for this project were discussed in a working group, at a meeting of our Committee on Economic Policy, with representatives of both Mineconomy and various public professional organizations, including representatives of the Antimonopoly Committee. Most of the proposals were taken into account, so I look forward to a successful vote. I very much hope that this time the MPs who, unfortunately, represent the oligarchs in Parliament will not, however, engage in the blockade of the rostrum, will not leave the session room, will not seek any other reason not to vote, but will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u70	Thank you. Colleagues, by the book. The law is few, the law is few. I'll call all right-wing authors, the authors will raise their hand. The authors will raise their hand, and they will also raise their hand for confirmation. On the right hand side, however, Ivanchuk Andri Volodymyrovich will lead the committee. Please, one minute to read the decision. And then the right-wing authors please prepare. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u71	Dear Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, the Committee on Economic Policy, considered Bill 2431, which was sent for re-reading, and on June 1, 2016 (meeting protocol 35), we considered all the amendments on re-second reading, and more than half counted. And the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill should be adopted on second reading and in general, taking into account the comments made by the GNEU, which were put on the committee's agenda, is of a technical nature. And all 12 of the 19 amendments are partially taken into account. And so please support this bill as drafted by the committee, Andry Volodymyrovich. In the Committee's second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u72	So let's go to the right. I'll call it editing. Which one of the authors would like to confirm them and place them on the right hand side, please by raising your hand. 1st. Don't insist. 1st. [[B in m in s a l in]] 1's a correction is counted. Are you on the first page, Anna? By 1st. Okay. Anna Gopko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u73	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I would like to thank Victoria the Birddog for keeping the Antimonopoly Committee in general under control. Indeed, with regard to this amendment, I wanted Victoria to explain once again whether, after this amendment, the Antimonopoly Committee would be able to implement transparent sanctions so that there would be no such abuse as lowering oligarchs or, let's say, not counting. One last example of the work of the Antimonopoly Committee at the end of December of this year. I want to remind you that the Antimonopoly Committee has somehow found no basis for recognizing the group of children Ahmtova, which has a monopoly, dominant position on the electricity generation market. The question is, does the Antimonopoly Committee work in the interests of Ahmedov? It can be renamed that way, and Ahmetov can finance some political parties that then block the rostrum and prevent Ukraine from moving towards the European Euro-Atlantic direction. That's why it's to Victoria the Bird. This amendment will allow the Antimonopoly Committee to really be accountable and not work for the oligarchs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u74	Thank you. Are you insisting on the vote, Mrs. Anna? Okay. 30 seconds, line. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u75	I want to point out that the amendment just says on what principles the Antimonopoly Committee actually has to approve this method of calculating fines, which is going to become a legal instrument, which is proportionality. And we explain in the amendment what this principle means, non-discrimination -- we also explain intelligence. And we're still talking about that the size of the fine is defined as the way to calculate its base size according to order.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. 2 axles. Don't insist. 3 redundancies. Sergey Kaplin, please, 3rd right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u77	Dear viewers, fellow countrymen, I would like to emphasize what this is about. It's about how the national oligarch control institute works and the delligarchization process in the country. And that's the number three right there, and we have a lot of doubts. Those comets and dots that are set without any grammatical, stylistic logic, I'm not talking about the principles of regulation, actually distorting, making this norm worthless, and thus making it impossible to fight the oligarchy any further by law. I demand that we make this right, as a lawyer, I demand that this right be placed in the House of Parliament for confirmation, and that all factions express their clear position on the fullness or futility, the legal futility of this right. Please set up a confirmation check.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u78	Andrew Volodymyrovich, please comment on such a critical observation. Please, Ivanchuk, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u79	I also have a legal education, and I'm willing to argue about Ukrainian grammar. If we can conduct an independent exam of Mr. Kaplin and mine from Ukrainian grammar, but the price of this exam and victory is the mandate of the Ukrainian Parliament. Then we can talk about where to put the coma. I believe that Victoria Juryovna has made a very correct amendment, and the committee supports it. So I'm asking you to support the decision of the committee and Victoria Yuriovna Birds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u80	So, my colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of the 3rd amendment. The committee's asking the hall to back her up. So whoever supports the 3rd amendment, please vote. Vote. The committee supports it. [[17:54:40]] For-86 The decision is not made. Four. Don't insist. 5th. Please, Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u81	I'll take the liberty of being a lawyer, Mr. Ivanchuk, to note that this bill is written and is now being implemented by voting as completely unconstitutional. It's literally because of the rules laid down, the conditions and possibilities for self-sustainment, within the framework of the law, based on individual norms, the treatment of constitutional norms. I'm specifically talking about the possibility of imposing fines outside the jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of the courts. This is totally insane when we, by one law, rewrite the actual requirements of the Constitution to regulate such things in court. Moreover, this practice creates an extremely dangerous precedent when we, the deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are able to effectively invalidate constitutional norms through the adoption of these or other legislative acts. And that's why I'm asking you to put on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u82	Thank you. So I'm betting on confirmation. Mr. Andrey, good. I'm sorry, the committee head gives comments on the drafts. We didn't have much left, I thought we'd get through quickly. I'm asking you very nicely, Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u83	As a lawyer, as a lawyer, Mr. Kaplin, I'm informing you that we have the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority and it doesn't see a violation of the Constitution. And you can make sure that 45 of our colleagues and you have the right to go to the Constitutional Court and only he can determine what your standards are, whether they meet the Ukrainian Constitution or not. Thank you. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u84	Thank you. I'm betting on confirmation of 5 revisions. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee supports it. Please. [[17:56:55]] For-81 The decision is not made. 9 of a row. The author does not insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Eight. Are you saying you still have a lot of rights? The last one. Okay. 8 revisions, please, Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u85	8 Similarly, the law creates a unique precedent for European law, when the Constitution, its constitutional norms, are practically copied by a separate rule of law. And I insist that such an amendment be confirmed or not confirmed by the majority of the Ukrainian national deputies who are in the Hall. That's the first one. The other one. Dear Mr. Ivanchuk, in the next call, I'm sure we'll have at least 45 deputies, and we, our political power of the Social Democratic Party, will be able to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u86	Please turn off the microphone. Please turn off the microphone. Thank you. I said, "Political agitation doesn't have to be done in a Parliamentary Hall." I'm very correct and the same to everyone. Please, one minute, Ivanchuk. I want to tell you that there are literally three revisions left. We'll continue the session until the deadline. But I'm asking everyone to be very concise. Please, Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u87	Dear Mr. Head, first of all, I would like to tell all the deputies that I will be pleased to see them all in the next assembly of the Ukrainian Parliament and to work. But, Mr. Head, in connection with Mr. Capplin. These two amendments came out of the law, I beg you not to support, without these amendments to Victoria's Bird as a key, given bill. So please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m1.u88	So first, I'm going to put an 8th vote to confirm. Whoever supports it, please vote. Vote. [[17:58:57]] For-56 The decision is not made. And, colleagues, that's how we actually finished discussing the law. And we can go to the vote. I ask everyone to step into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote draft Law 2431 on the proposal of a committee in second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[5:59:52]] For-93 Draft Law 2431 has been rejected. Colleagues, I want to talk to everyone, because a lot of people have felt that the elections have already begun, we have work in Parliament, elections -- outside of Parliament, there are predictable forms: forms of video, meetings with working groups, meetings on the front -- go there in free time and agitate. This is the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. Colleagues, I urge everyone to be at work in the next few days. I remind you that on Thursday we will have excessive laws to include in the Constitution our strategic direction in the EU and NATO. I find it unacceptable that in some way political debates and presidential races could influence our vote in the hall. I ask everyone tomorrow and tomorrow to put out some emotion, be in the hall and participate in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is the responsibility of each one of us. When we went to the elections, we made a promise to our community in front of the Ukrainians. So, colleagues, I'm asking that in the coming days and tomorrow, and tomorrow we have the maximum mobilization in the hall. It is now the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, I'm waiting in the hall to continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye.
