ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Everyone's almost punctual today. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Colleagues, please take your seats. Once again to everyone good morning, Ukrainian national deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies are requested to prepare for registration. Please register. Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:07:53]] At the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 388 national deputies were registered. I'm announcing it. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen. Yeah. By the order of the moment, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, during the three days of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, journalists of the "Honestly" movement recorded three cases of buttons. And we call on the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to pay particular attention to this disgraceful violation of the Constitution, the regulations, the laws of Ukraine concerning the status of the Ukrainian national deputy. Dear Mr. Razumkov, please give an immediate commission to the regulatory committee to consider cases involving the buttons of Ukrainian national deputies: Litvinenka Sergia, Copanchuk Olena, Kovalova Alexander. One of these people's MPs has also hampered the work of journalists, and journalists have been threatening journalists about it. We ask you to give the same commission to immediately consider this case on the Committee on Freedom of Speech and to keep the same promise of President Greensky, who is also protesting against buttoning. That's the first one. And the second. You know, we want to keep the concerned in the Supreme Council and definitely against what started in the morning eight minutes later.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u3	Thank you. I think the time when we start a little bit later than before in the last summons is still coming to an end and, there, a few more days and we're going to start at exactly 10:30, and then at 4:30. And I am grateful to my colleagues that they are quite punctual today. Thank you all again. As for the first question. An order was given in the morning, but at the same time I would like to give the floor to Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenko, the first deputy head of the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u4	Yeah. Dear colleagues, the distinguished presidency, the distinguished people of Ukraine, indeed yesterday journalists have recorded, well, in the past time, more precisely, two cases of buttoning by members of our faction, Mrs. Copanczuk and Mr. Litwinenko. On behalf of the faction, I want to apologize to the Ukrainian people and to all colleagues in Parliament. [[Applause]] In fact, we talked about this during the campaign. And I would like, if possible by procedure, to give these deputies a word from our faction now, so that they can explain and maybe they have some additional information. On a regular? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, would you deny giving your words to the Ukrainian National Deputies to explain your position? If there's no objection, please turn on Sergei Litwinenko's microphone, "Sergeant of the People" faction. Turn it on from there.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u6	Good afternoon, honourable speaker, honourable MPs! Good afternoon, people of Ukraine, President! I want to apologize for what happened. My actions had no purpose, it was all in the turbines, it went wrong, because I was worried that we would actually vote for these laws, as the soul and the heart had told me, and the mind wasn't evil. I want to apologize and say that my salary is monthly and I'm willing to transfer it to charity funds for this mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u7	Thank you, Sergei. I hope that these situations will never happen again with you or with the members of the People's Servant Party. And Kopanczuk Olena. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! I also want to make an official apology to everyone, to say that, although it was important for me that this bill be voted on, although that is not an excuse, I understand that, it will be an important lesson for me for life. And I'm also joining the position of my salary to pay for the charity fund. And I think it's going to be an emissary, too, not to pay attention, not to make a personal vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u9	Thank you, Your Honor. Ivan Ivanovich Krulko, for reasons, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u10	Dmitri Alexanderovich! I really think that in the new convocation of such shameful facts, such as buttoning, it should not be, it is absolutely right. But I'd like to offer you one more. Please give me the floor to say sorry to those who have pushed past calls here, and 90 percent of the questions have been pushed so hard. Here, give them a word of apology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u11	Ivan Ivanovich, I think this is a very good offer. Yet, it seems to me that if we go to her, we won’t have a week. And this will completely block the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So let's get to the point. Dear National Deputies! We need to include the following bills in the agenda of the plenary. Bill 1039, Bill 1039-1 (alternative), Bill 1039-2. Please support and vote. [[10:14:27]] For 267 Against 11, holding 36. Decision taken. I am voting on the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily plenary session of Bills 1044, 1044-1. Please support and vote. [[10:14:56]] For 287 Against - 0, held - 48. I'm betting on the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of 1035, 1035-1, 1035-2. Please support and vote. [[10:15:23]] For 257 Against - 2, holding - 67. Decision taken. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been handed over a bill amending the Ukrainian Defence Act on the organization of state defence (registration number 1011, 1011-1). I'd like to take a brief look at this. Please support and vote. [[10:16:06]] For 299 Against - 6, holding - 30. Decision taken. The bill will be reviewed under reduced procedure. The report is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. Ruslan Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u12	Thank you. Your Honourable Head, Your Honor! The sixth year is the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine, and an effective response to specific threats to national interests in the military requires a comprehensive and coherent performance of the State's defence. These measures are usually carried out by the authorities of the State in a different way, marked and conditioned by the absence of a set of documents to determine the content, scope, order and timing of the State’s efforts to prepare for armed protection in the event of armed aggression or armed conflict. Such a situation has a negative impact on the effectiveness of the tasks assigned by the defence forces. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenski, has been introduced to Parliament and has been designated as an immediate draft of the Ukrainian Defence Act on the organization of state defence (registration No. 1011). The project proposes to consolidate, at the legislative level, the need to develop a defence plan for Ukraine, which will determine the content, scope, order and timing of political, economic, social, military, scientific, scientific and technical, information, legal, organisational and other measures of the State to prepare for and protect armed aggression. The other one. Developing an appropriate plan in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, approving such a plan and its structure by the President of Ukraine. The introduction of appropriate changes will ensure an effective response to specific threats to national interests in the military sphere, improve coordination of the activities of the defence forces, coordinate the preparation of public authorities, local self-government bodies, the national economy, the people of the State's territory for defence, which in general will contribute to increasing the level of defence of Ukraine. Taking this into account, please support the legislative initiative of President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine and adopt Bill No.1011 as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u13	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. For a report on the submission of an alternative bill, 1011-1 is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Rachmanin, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! From the Voice faction and from me personally, as a subject of the legislative initiative and my colleagues, an alternative bill of 1011-1 has been introduced in connection with what? First of all, the legislative initiative taken by the President of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Defence Act is not very appropriate, to explain why. First of all, these changes were more appropriate, and by the way, the NEU, I was talking about it on the committee, and they were more appropriate to submit them to the National Security and Defence Act -- first of all. Secondly, this initiative was taken by the Supreme Council of the previous call, as early as 2015, and was rejected by the committee as not very appropriate. Thirdly, this initiative often duplicates the Russian concept and is not very much in line with NATO standards and our legislation. And lastly, it's the President's right to have a plan, although if you look at the profile laws, particularly the Defence Act, and the National Security Act, there's a lot of different plans, and there's a lot of planning subjects. But if the President, as head of the National Security and Defence Council, wants such a document, he must have the right subject of planning, and in our view the National Security and Defence Council must be such a subject, in accordance with the Constitution, and with the laws of the profile. And secondly, there should be a mechanism for the introduction of this document, because the plan is not just a set of documents, it's a document and usually similar decisions are made with the President's decree after the relevant decision of the National Security and Defence Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u15	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. A member of the National Security and Defence Committee is given the floor for the report. Defense and Intelligence of Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u16	Good morning, dear colleagues, distinguished Presidency! Defence Committee. On 9 September, the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenski, considered the bill on national security, defence and intelligence as urgent. And I also considered an alternative bill submitted by a group of national deputies, such as Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich. Bill 1011, submitted by the President, Law 1011-1, submitted by the People's Deputies as an alternative. The bill submitted by the President of Ukraine received an acknowledgment from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority and can be considered and accepted as a basis. The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy also concluded that the draft act met the requirements of anti-corruption legislation and contained no corruption risks. The alternative bill, which has just been reported by the honourable Sergey Ivanovich, expands the competence of the National Security and Defence Council. The difference between these two bills, according to a large account, is only who has to formally prepare the defence plan and submit it to the President of Ukraine for approval. From the point of view of the complex measures that the state needs to defend, more logically, in the view of the committee and, by the way, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, is the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Since the defence plan provides for the consolidation of various ministries, it is the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the Ministry of Health, and so on. The committee therefore proposes, as a result of the discussion of the above-mentioned bills, taking into account the President's constitutional powers, the exercise of leadership in the areas of national security and defence, and taking into account the provision of State sovereignty, the implementation of measures to ensure the security of states relating to the competence of the President of Ukraine to constitutional powers. The committee adopted a decision: recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: on the basis of the first reading, and the whole project.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u17	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u18	draft submitted by the President of Ukraine (registration number 1011) and the alternative bill (registration number 1011-1) rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u19	Thank you, Feder Volodymyrovich. Please sign up for the faction: two in, two in. Trelyakowa Galina Mikolayevna, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u20	Please pass on the word to Marianne Besogly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u21	Mariana Bezugla, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u22	Colleagues, associations, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Defence Act provides for the need for the development and approval of a defence plan by the President of Ukraine. The Defence Plan is specific measures that require coordinated action by the executive and the general resources, first and foremost, of financial security. The Kabin ensures Ukraine's state sovereignty and takes steps to ensure Ukraine's security and national security, which is a higher body in the executive system, so it is appropriate to put the plan in place. In doing so, before the submission of the President of Ukraine, the plan will necessarily be considered by the National Security and Defence Council, which is the coordinating body. All government structures need to act in harmony, according to one plan and one plan. And we know that Ukraine, in a sixth year in a row, is opposed to Russian aggression, in fact, a warlord state and its defence must be the cause of all state bodies, not just the military. And we were constantly told that there would be an attack on Ukraine, there would be aggression, all the more so. But in five years of war, we don't have a plan for a real invasion. We want peace and we will do everything we can to bring the war to an end, but the best guarantee of our security is a strong army, a strong economy and a willingness to give back. That is why I am now asking the Hall to unite and support this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u23	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen! Valentin Nastavajchenko, Julia Timoshenko's Fatherland faction. Thank you for the word. Dear friends, the "country defence plan" I propose to consider as a plan of action for the defence of Ukraine, a plan of action for the protection of Ukrainian citizens, which is the position of the faction of Yulia Timoshenko "The Fatherland". And so we stress that in the country's defence plan, we have to clearly engage the defence forces, the security forces, all without excluding the government, the entire Parliament, and give the commander-in-chief the right to adopt a defence plan immediately: firstly, the responsible, secondly, the lines and thirdly, we as professionals are encouraged to continuously update the country's defence plan, constantly supporting the Ukrainian army. With what? Weapons, tools, training, protection. Therefore, a key proposal for legislators from us is to provide for continuous updating and monitoring of the implementation of the country's defence action plan. The second key function. There is the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. This council is under the National Security Act, a body that coordinates all defence and security forces, and then we also propose a second reading, and we will insist that the country's defence plan be reviewed and approved by the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. And most of all, what we're doing with you today is to make sure that the two fighters who have given their lives in the last century to the foreman and all the fighters who are now listening to us and waiting for a final decision that the whole state will start defending the country, get confidence -- their lives, their victories in the state from the Supreme Commander to the last executing officer is under the plan of defense to act and protect the country's homeland. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u25	Heroic glory. Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u26	Arthur Gerasimov, European Solidarity. Please give the word to battle general Hera of Ukraine Mikhail Zabrodski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u27	Mikhail Zabrodsky, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u28	First of all, the honourable colleagues you welcomed responded to the military greeting used by the previous reporter. I mean, it's a sign of respect even for those now over 600 kilometers from here, it's a couple of tens of thousands of men and women who are giving you and I can work here for Ukraine. So once again, glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u29	Now, about something they say the essence of the question. One of the sad discoveries of the last five years, why the last five years, because only in the last five years have they come back face to face with this issue, has been that despite the 28 previous years, we have no strong defense plan for Ukraine. The previous reporter drew attention to the order of action and so forth. I have to tell you, and I have to tell you, part of the state secret -- there is no order of action in this plan. This plan is a strategic document that contains a list of measures taken in advance and partly directly to prepare the country for defence. And the emphasis in this regard is really on the interaction of power forces with other institutions of the state. The military has a very, very interesting saying, "No plan survives after the first shot" -- "No plan can survive after the first shot." And given that this same plan will include things that are done early and even in peacetime, this plan is essential to complete the full cycle, including defense planning in our country. Once again, I would like to remind my honourable colleagues that article 17 of our Constitution points out to us and directs us that the protection of our sovereignty and territorial integrity is a matter of concern for the entire Ukrainian people. This plan gives guidance to a strategic document that has enabled these plans to be implemented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u30	Thank you. Dmitry Valeriovich's lube, with a motive, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u31	The Honorable Presidium, the Honorable Colleagues, well, of course, the Deputies' Group "For the Future" will vote for the Presidential Bill, because logic is very simple. The President is the Commander-in-Chief, if he sees this document coming, we are ready and must support it. And I'd also like to say, this is a major who represents 60 constituencies, and this is the Donetsk district, which is an advanced one. Thank you. The Supreme Council, which was mentioned on the sixth day of work, that we need to do defense, that we have a war going on. And I want to tell you that tonight, two of our protectors died and died every day. I now propose a moment of silence to mention all the heroes and to show that the Supreme Council does not forget that there is a war going on in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u33	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Let's go to the vote. Ah, Sergey Ivanovich Rachmanin, the Voice faction. Please turn on the microphone with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u34	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, actually careful reading is a very useful thing. If they looked closely at those who supported the bill, the National Security and Defence Act, they would see that, in truth, everything was written there. There's a document of long-term planning called the National Strategy. And I point out to you that the President of Ukraine, after taking office for six months, has to make this document. Because on the basis of it, there's still a whole series of documents. And this document is the kind of defense plan that Ukraine is running. It approves documents of medium - term planning and short - term planning. There will be no change from the fact that there will be another document. Logic is very simple. It's just that people with a certain competence have to do their functions, that's all. What this plan is going to be called, it doesn't matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u35	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. Question completed. Let's go to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (Registration No. 1011) amending the Ukrainian Defence Act on the organization of the defence of the state. Please support and vote. [[10:33:40]] For 316 Against 19, hold on to 9. Decision taken. According to part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for the second reading of the bill (registration No. 1011) amending the Ukrainian Defence Act on the organization of the defence of the State. Please support and vote. [[10:34:18]] For 280 Against two, holding on to 59. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been handed over a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the suspension of the application of penalties for infringing the import of means of transport into Ukrainian customs territory (registration No. 1030). It's an important bill that can't fine the so-called owners of "eurobills." So I think we need to look at this for quick acceptance. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose we consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please be supportive. [[10:35:13]] For 268. For 268, versus 5, hold on to 60. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 232, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 1, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 10, "Voice" – 6, "non-fractional" – 19. Let's move on to the agenda. The representative of the President of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich, is given the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u36	The Honourable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, President of Ukraine in the order of article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, was introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill which received registration number 1030 recognized by the President as urgent, announced by the Head of the Supreme Council. This is about a bill amending certain legislative acts on the suspension of the application of penalties for violating the procedure for importing vehicles into the customs territory of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, this bill actually has a very simple objective of approval. This bill is a response to the fact that the authorities, the government authorities of Ukraine over the past five years have shown their inability, on the one hand, to work effectively, on the other hand, this is an example of obvious corruption by various supervisory authorities and, above all, the State Customs Service. It's a very simple thing. Citizens are totally smuggled into Ukrainian territory, into Ukrainian customs territory, by means of foreign registration. Everyone understands very well that every car has to be paid first to customs, then to those controlling authorities that control the movement in Ukraine, i.e. they go around the state budget billions, millions, hundreds of millions, I don't know, the costs of taxpayers that don't come into the state budget of Ukraine. But this law is a response to events that have taken place in the past. The president, I'm meeting with the citizens, is hearing a lot of requests to delay the entry into force of these sanctions. And so we're proposing that we just accept as a whole the bill submitted by the President of Ukraine and for 90 days that we postpone the imposition of fines on those violators of the temporary importation of cars into the customs territory of Ukraine in order to remove, not the economic, but the social and political tensions in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u37	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. The words for the report are given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u38	Thank you. Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! In fact, the Feds of Venislavsky clearly outlined the problem that the proposed bill solves by the President. We have inherited quite a set of problems that have arisen as a result of the unprofessional action of the previous authorities. One of these problems is the problem that is called in the people of Europe. In fact, for a long time people were allowed, closed their eyes to the import of cars. Then, when this phenomenon became massive, they tried to resolve it administratively. This failed and produced a whole series, a whole series of compromises and semicompromising options that both sides failed to satisfy. And today we have this problem. The bill itself called for discussion on our team, but the president made a decision on the bill. We support him. And we want to say that this postponement by the end of the year, which we're proposing both for fines and for the simplified procedure for car design, is the last decision we're going to make, and we're not going to go back to that decision anymore. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u39	Thank you. A word for the factions. For the word after the factions, please register two in favour, two in favour. Krulko Ivanovich, "The Fatherland." Andrew Ivanovich Nikolayenko, "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u40	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Regrettably, the executive authorities failed to ensure the effective implementation of the previous law, which set the limits. And this situation continues in Ukraine. I sincerely hope that we are more than promised by the chairman of the committee, that we will not return to the question of the extension of these terms, and that it will be normalized. And not only are the registered and paid taxes on those cars that are in Ukraine, but the new ones won't come because we know that this process, unfortunately too, exists. And that's a question for the new law enforcement agencies, updated by the "Serve of the People" team. I have an offer that I gave to the committee. We didn't include her in this bill. But it's important that everyone hears. We, on the one hand, allow, once again we continue Euro-2, Euro-3, Euro-0 in fact. And since January 1, I remind everyone, we have to have Euro 6. What does that mean? This means that all the new cars go from 3 to 4, some even more, thousands of dollars per unit. So where's the logic? So I think it's necessary to review this rule so that we don't demolish people who want to buy new cars by paying all the taxes. And the question of the introduction of Euro-6 in Ukraine has been postponed. This is supported by professional associations and businesses. And most importantly, I'm sure it'll be for the benefit of the citizens of Ukraine. That's why there's this initiative, and I call on Parliament, and then, as part of the changes to the Customs Code, to vote as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u41	Thank you, Andrey Ivanovich. Eugene Nina Petrovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u42	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! I hope you've all lived in Ukraine for the last three years and have seen with your own eyes the collapse that was created as a result of the failure to comply with legislation. And what you just said seems very strange, because a compromise decision, which was worked out by a large number of people who had violated this legislation and the executives, was really sought for over two years and it was found, was a compromise decision that satisfied everyone. Why don't you listen to yourself? The law of Ukraine 2612 just solved those problems that were most important to us, because it was really a collapse that was observed in the country. And in the meantime, since the adoption of the law, 145 thousand car owners have been blurry, conducted all customs formalities and formed transport facilities. In addition, another 332 thousand Ukrainian citizens have taken advantage of the new rules that have been introduced into the Ukrainian Customs Code. So I hope that you understand everything, that you will continue with State policy, and that you will continue to have a professional attitude towards solving all of the issues. At the same time, I would like to point out that, in accordance with article 452 of Law 2612, vehicles were to be used in the territory of Ukraine between the income and the congregations, the State Border Service and the National Police authorities. In addition, Article 558 of the Customs Code provides that the authorities of incomes and congregations are obliged to provide, automatically, information to the authorities of the National Police about the means of transport that are placed under different regimes. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was assigned 30 calendars.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u43	Let me finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u44	Since this law became effective, it has been necessary to enact the laws and regulations necessary for the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u45	Nina Petrovna, give me 10 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u46	Please consider the request to the income and congregation authorities, the State Border Service and the National Police, and provide information on the implementation of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u47	Thank you. The word is given by Tzabal Vladimir Volodymyrovich, a faction of the Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u48	He's giving the word to Jaroslav the Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u49	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, turn from place.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! I think there's no question in either of us that the problem of cars on Euronomists is more than that. Each one of us has no doubt that people were buying these cars out of a good life. Not because they wanted to cheat, but they just wanted to drive the cars that were available. And this law, which was passed by a former vocation, even though it did partially solve the problem that our customs actually created, and some people who were involved in corruption in this matter, and made people actually use this scheme. But now what we're proposing is to continue the operation of the law that expired in August of this year. In fact, we've already resumed the operation from 180 days to 270. And now we're showing all our other citizens that the law can be broken, that we can count on the terms of the law and the fines to be extended. And most importantly, we show that the law is not equal to everyone. I don't know how we can answer people, but there I know more than 240 administrative fines have already been paid for. And what we're talking about right now is if they didn't do it, if they were conscientiously violating the law, nothing happened. So our faction will vote against this law, we will certainly be the only ones in this room that will vote against it, because we think that the law should be one for all. And we have to spend our time not continuing the individual benefits, but with you, along with all the people's deputies, together with the Cabinet of Ministers to think about how to make our cars and the cars they want to buy available to all citizens for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u51	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, Future Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u52	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! If the past parliament did not want to, it could not have resolved the issue of temporary residence in Ukraine of foreign-registered cars. But I am more than convinced that this Parliament has every chance to solve this problem. We know that since August 22, this year, law enforcement authorities have been given the right to impose dragon's fines on the owners of such cars and to confiscate these cars in general. More than 300 protocols have already been compiled during this time. But what is obvious to us is the main other, obvious, real solution to the problem, my friends, is the removal of barrier barriers that stand in the way of filling the Ukrainian market with modern cars, and it is nothing more than a reinforced demand for ecology and huge excise duties and other taxes. To this end, the parliamentary group "For the Future" has registered bills that fully address the problem of temporary residence in Ukraine of foreign-registered cars. According to the bill, which is registered: 2078 is proposed to provide that the requirements of the environmental standards of the euro are applied when importing exclusively for new means of transport at the same time, as discussed in this room, the introduction of the Euro-6 standard by 2025. Moreover, we have registered a bill aimed at abolishing excise duties on transport vehicles and their bodies, such as those that cannot be attributed to excise goods. According to world practice, friends and our legislation, we are confident that the adoption of these bills will have a positive impact on the development of the car market in Ukraine, allowing citizens to legalize and acquire already purchased foreign registration cars, and also to increase revenue from customs payments. Our group is voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u53	Thank you. Alexy Ustenko, "Serial of the People" faction, please. From the motive of the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u54	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! I just want to say quickly, let's think about who used to use a problem like Europlums. They were people who couldn't afford to buy some cars that were more expensive. What Did It Buy? They usually bought the old Audis, the old Volkswagens, which cost $2,3,4,000. Indeed, this problem was solved by the past authorities, who were simply silenced, as if the police had not noticed. In fact, so many cars are already blurry, but there are very, very few who really want to sweep their cars to the end. And I think we need to give these people a chance at everything who want to pay the budget and drive legally. All of this happened because the income of the population fell, and there really wasn't any opportunity in the poor people, in those who didn't have normal income, to buy a car in the Ukrainian market. And there's more. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u55	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u56	And I really want to say thank you very much to Maxim Nephrodov, what I hear in expert circles and everywhere: smuggling stands, nothing can be done across borders. And I thank him very much and thank the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u57	Thank you. Question, question completed. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u58	Mr. Head, honourable national MPs are certainly a very important issue, but I would like to draw attention to the very important issue in the course of the previous presentations: the issue of continuing this topic, and this is still going on to stimulate imports into Ukraine of electric vehicles, to stimulate an increase in the level of environmentality. We understand what today is about transport companies. And for that, they had the resources, the financial resources to upgrade the core. The main means of doing so must be stimulated to continue to introduce tax preferences. I would like to wish exactly the Committee on Finance and Tax Policy to be stimulated in the future. We understand what trends are today, and in the world, completely certain cities are closing down to import separate categories of cars and passways. That is why we need to focus further on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u59	Thank you. Question completed. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (Registration No. 1030) amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the limitation of the application of penalties for violating the procedure for importing vehicles into Ukrainian customs territory. Please support and vote. [[10:52:19]] For 276 Against 39, holding on to five. It's the Gethmans' procedure. Show the factions, please. The Servant of the People – 220, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherhood" – 15, "For the Future" – 16, "The Voice" – 0, "the Non-Factional" – 25. The Gethmans' procedure, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, in fact, the law on several articles, there's nothing to discuss, and in the process of preparing for the first reading, we didn't get any amendments to this law, and the secretariat itself made some adjustments that made this law more technical. That's why I'm proposing today. All the factions have already identified who is in favor and who is against it; yet today I propose to vote on it as a whole, because it is a matter that is very urgent, and people are waiting for it. And really, fines are coming. Therefore, with the Committee's proposals, I propose to put them to a general vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, indeed, from. I'm asking for silence in the hall, colleagues! Thank you. Look, since August 22, people are already paying fines. What has not been resolved is, in principle, part of the responsibility and responsibility, but part of the responsibility lies with the State and the authorities. This bill doesn't solve the question, and he won't. If we move it to the second reading, it doesn't change significantly, the right here is not going to be global, but make it so that two more weeks or weeks people will pay fines, probably wrong. The factions have determined who will support this bill, who will oppose it. However, in order to make life a little easier for our fellow citizens, I propose that we vote on this bill as a whole. If there is no objection, I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law, registration number 1030, amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the suspension of the application of penalties for violating the procedure for the importation of vehicles into the customs territory of Ukraine. Please support and vote. [[10:54:58]] For 284 Against 38, holding on to 8. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 228, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 15, "For the Future" – 18, "Voice" – 0, non-fractional – 24. The law was passed in general. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have received a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on Sources of State Road Fund (Registration No. 1063). I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[10:55:50]] For 279 Against three, holding on to 45. Decision taken. The bill will be reviewed under reduced procedure. The report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kubrakov Aleksandro Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u62	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. Your attention is given to the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on Sources of State Road Fund (Registration No. 1063) (since 29.08.2019), introduced by the People's Deputies and designated as an urgent President of Ukraine and at the first meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 29 and 30 August 2019. Yesterday we voted in favour of the 1047 Bill on Reinforcement. amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the exercise of habilitative weight control. This bill was voted on as a basis and as a whole. Today’s Law 1063, it is an integral part of the process that we are implementing, namely automatic weighing, and it only specifies where fines will be directed from the application of the system. The point is to legally strengthen the direction of administrative and economic fines for infringements of road transport legislation, administrative fines for breaches provided for in part two of article 122 and part two of article 131 of the Code of Administrative Violations. Thus, the adoption of the bill will help channel additional sources of financing for the road fund and will allow for the financing of construction, reconstruction, repair, maintenance of the roadways of general use. I would like to add that fines in this story are not the main thing in this story, but that the system works. Because we can see that Ukrainian carriers, when they get to the borders with the European Union, are dramatically overloading their excess cargo and complying with all the standards that are established in the European Union. So we're talking about rules and rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u63	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u64	Language to make the rules work. I mean, fines aren't the point. It's not a fund-raiser, and so on. So please, given that Bill 1047 was supported on the ground yesterday and in general, this bill is the second ingredient necessary for the system to work. Please also support as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u65	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on the budget of Kubbit Yuri Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u66	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, your honors! On 6 September, the Budget Committee considered Bill 1063 on amending the Budget Code on Sources of State Road Fund formation and noted in particular. The rules on fines set out in the bill were not previously provided for in the legislation in force. But in connection with the adoption of basic Law 1047, we can essentially work further on the adoption of Law 1063, as it is a derivative. The Committee also noted the need to introduce 1,063 technical legal rights into the bill to reconcile its provisions with the applicable rules of the Budget Code and to bring them into line with the basic requirements of the legislative technique. In addition, during the review of Bill 1063 at the Committee of the Ministry of Finance, a proposal was made by the co-author of the Kubrakov draft law, Alexander Mikolajovich, to include 50 per cent of the penalties provided for in the bill, taking into account that the functioning of the body that will administer such fines is carried out by the general fund of the State budget. In view of the fact that the bill had been designated by the President of Ukraine as urgent, the Committee on Budget Affairs had adopted the following decision: to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 1063 to consider after the review and adoption that had already taken place, Bill 1047 and, as a whole, to adopt the bill as a basis and as a law with the Committee's proposals listed in the statement of reasons, such as the introduction of technical and legal rights, to reconcile the bill with the rules of the Budget Code and the final edition of the adopted basic bill 1047, as well as the inclusion in the special fund of only 50 per cent of the corresponding fines. Since yesterday, September 11, the Supreme Council adopted the basic bill 1047 as a basis and as a whole as a law, I ask you to support the Committee's decision on the adoption of the derivative.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u67	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u68	on the adoption of the Derivatives Bill 1063 as a basis and as a whole as a law with the Committee's proposals. Thanks for the weight.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u69	Thank you. Please register by faction: two for, two for, and two for the performance. Grand Chief Mikola Romanovich, European Solidarity faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, we are today considering a bill that relates to Bill 1047, which we adopted yesterday. I would like to point out that this bill 1063 is a bill that was written in the words of Bill 9531 of 04.02.2019 on the eighth call. But I would like to take a few moments of this bill. As to the substance of the proposed proposal, the sources of the development of the road fund really need to be extended in this case at the expense of the proposed administrative and economic sanctions. The bill only takes into account sanctions that are directly linked to the volume of traffic while the project is aimed at creating additional sources of financing for the road economy and financing of road safety measures in general. Taking into account the stated purpose and purpose of the draft law in the explanatory note, the sources of the road fund formation can be expanded by coming from other sanctions. Since we voted on Bill 1047 yesterday, and by supporting it as a whole, "European Solidarity" will support and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u71	Thank you. Skipper Alexander Alexandrovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u72	Well, I already made a statement yesterday about this bill. That's why I want to give the word to Roxolani Podlasi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u73	Roxanne Andriyev Podlas, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, there is no secret that there is a chronically underfunded road sector in Ukraine. Today, we have over 95 percent of roads that have been in operation for more than 20 or 30 years, and they all need capital renewal. In 2018 more than 30 million fines were collected for overload. And this sum will increase once it becomes effective with the Act on the New Rules of Luggage Control, which we adopted yesterday. This money should go to the State Road Fund. Maybe then we'll have hands and money and enough money to repair the road, for example between Mironivka and Boguslavka Kyiv region, which was designed and built in the 1960s and 1970s. Or the road from Kiev to Cherkas. We need to get more than 24,000 km of roads back to normal. The Prime Minister recently spoke of plans to include about $2 billion in road repairs at the expense of international organizations and the fight against grey fuel vendors who do not pay excise fees. I propose to support the government's efforts and today to support Law 1063 as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u75	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, MP for the Future, from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u76	Please give the floor to the national deputy Jaroslav Dubnevic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u77	Dubnevich Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u78	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Of course, the law has good support. I hope that he will be voted today. But there's one little "but." Why is only 50 percent going to the road fund? Because we're all saying with you that the cost is not enough to repair roads, not enough money to ensure safety on our roads. And in turn, the law only sends 50 percent. Because in my opinion and in my opinion, for the future, all 100 percent should go to the road fund. And if that's the offer, God is with him, I understand perfectly that the Ministry of Finance is always against spending going to special ones, and the Ministry of Finance and Government's task is to make the most of it into the general fund and then allocate it to various social problems. If we are already voting for only 50 percent of the fines to be sent to the road fund, the next step should be for the remaining 50 percent to be sent to local budgets for local communities, because video fixation, automatic complexes will be installed in the area of local authorities. And when local authorities, like European countries, are interested in getting video fixation costs from automatic overload complexes. This will provide an opportunity and an incentive to install and co-finance the installation of video fixation and automatic overload complexes. That's why we work together, friends. We do not forget the organs of local self - government, for this is the foundation of our nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u79	Thank you. John Ivanovich Krulko with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u80	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! Of course, this bill needs to be supported. Because the Road Fund, which was created, in principle, not so long ago, just started its work, but needed to be filled with real sources. Moreover, I have to admit that even these sources that we are now adding to the Road Fund will not be enough to deal with the disastrous situation with Ukrainian roads. So I urge all of us colleagues, members of the Budget Committee, members of the Transport Committee to work hard and to offer additional sources to fill the Road Fund to solve road problems. There will be no roads in Ukraine, no economy will develop, no investors will come to us. We have to provide our capabilities as a transport country through which major highways pass. So our task, as a parliament, is certainly to fill the Road Fund. And most importantly, make sure you don't steal money.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u81	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u82	To avoid the cost of repairing and building Ukrainian roads. Because there are two elements. One ingredient when the cost is in.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u83	Ivan Ivanovich, thank you. Question completed. Excuse me, Voice, Klimenko Julia, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u84	Comrades, good afternoon! Klimenko Julia, the Voice faction. I want to emphasize that Law 1047 without the law that we are currently considering, 1063, will not work. Therefore, a big request is made to support this bill 1063 and to vote. The Voice party will support it, because we understand that this is a full-fledged mechanism that will start repairs, reconstruct our roads and really contribute to the development of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u85	Thank you. Question completed. Let's go to the vote. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (Registration No. 1063) amending the Ukrainian Budget Code concerning the sources of the formation of the State Road Fund. Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:10:30.]] For 329 Hello. Decision taken. For 329, against 0, hold on to 0. Dear colleagues, if we have this unity in the hall, I propose to support this bill as a whole. Please support and vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the bill (registration number 1063) on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on Sources of State Road Fund formation. Please support and vote. [[11:11:17]] For 337 Against 0. Hold on to 0. I'm very grateful to all of you, please show by factions: "Serviary of the People" – 225, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 24, "European Solidarity" – 19, "Fatherhood" – 18, "For the Future" – 14, "Voice" – 16, "non-factional" – 21. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. Dear colleagues! You have been given a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine on State Subsidy to Return Part of Qualified Expenses by a Foreign Film Subject in Production (Creating) of a Film in Ukraine (Registration Number 1058) (alternative 10568-1). I would like to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:12:21]] For 253 Against - 2. It's been held up to 57. Decision taken. The bill will be reviewed under reduced procedure. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tkachenko Alexandro Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u86	Good afternoon, colleagues! It's nice to see you in this room, especially those who have come back to me, but nevertheless, thank you for this opportunity. In the suburbs of Vilnius, local residents take part in a series of events that take place in Ukraine. It's a series for the American channel HBO Chernobyl. There's King's Landing in Dubrovnik. King's Havana is a series of Games of Thrones that recorded almost all seasons in Croatia. James Bond loves the Czech Republic and The Terminator loves Budapest. All of these, as well as hundreds of other projects, have been recorded in our neighbors, the results, the tens of millions of dollars that have come into these countries' budget, the new jobs, the renovated cinemas, the new cinemas, the high expertise of local experts, and the additional costs that come from tourism. For one dollar spent by foreign producers, there are three dollars for services. All of this is not happening in us, although two years ago the Act on State Support for Cinematrophy was passed, where 10 species were foreseen in this law. This is the compensation of classified expenses to foreign producers for money spent in Ukraine. It is because of the existence of such a standard that Western producers film in Europe, where practically all countries have a 30 - percent average rebite law. We offer 25 percent plus 5 using Ukrainian works and plot lines in Ukraine. These projects can only be made with the participation of Ukrainian producers and will also contribute to the creation of series and films with Ukrainians. I would like to point out that article 12 of this law prohibits the use of money for an aggressor state. In our country, there are talents, and I don't want them to go to the Czech Republic and Poland for these pictures, and I think you can make this law a genuine gift to Ukrainian moviemakers who are going to celebrate.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u87	Let me finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u88	And soon, and our Western partners would like to say, "Welcome to Ukraine." 1058, stand by.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u89	Honourable People's Deputies, the word for the report for the alternative bill 1058-1 is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine to the Princely Nikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear friends, in the suburbs of Vilnius itself, where the film on "Cornobil" is made, there is a law on replay similar to what is now in force with us, where subsidies are entitled to both foreign producers and local Lithuanians, exactly the same law is in force with us now. It was passed as the Act for the Support of Cinematography in conjunction with the Association of KinoCraine, which was founded by all the largest producers and the Studio Quarter 95. The largest manufacturers and the 95 Quarter Studio were then absolutely demanding that the eligible costs be returned to both foreign and local producers. It's on the site, it's in the documents, we passed this law, but it didn't work, because there were no changes to the budget code, which we're going to vote on next, and hopefully we're going to vote on. Someone offered to pass a completely absurd law now, someone has some, indeed, positive norms, increases the rate from 16 to 25 percent, and in some cases up to 30, a few still have positive points, but excludes Ukrainians from the right to receive a Ukrainian film subsidy, a subsidy that operates in Lithuania, in Czech Republic, in Portugal -- where they make all the films that my colleague Tkachenko has talked about. It happened, colleagues, it was just a mistake, someone was asked to prepare a law to introduce the rebate, someone gave it to President Zelenski, to move faster, and someone realized that there should be no Ukrainians or lobbyists. So my law, at the risk of 1 is similar to that of my colleague Tkachenko, but he leaves the right to claim a state subsidy in the form of a return of qualified costs to Ukrainian producers so that they can also shoot in Ukraine instead of going to Lithuania to make a film together with HBO about Taras Bulba and Kotigoroshka. Thank you. Please support the bill at risk 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u91	Thank you. The report is given to a member of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Suchka Paul Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u92	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Humanities and Information Policy considered drafts of Laws Nos. 1058 and 1058-1 at its meeting on September 9, 2019. I would like to point out that the basis of the difference between the alternative bill and registration number 1058-1 is the prediction of the return of the rebyte cash not only to foreigners but also to the national producer, which will have no effect on the filling of the budget at the expense of additional investments. The national producer already has a lot of direct support for subsidies, more than one billion dollars, which exaggerates the direct support of many countries in Europe and is not in time right now. As a result of the discussion, the committee adopted a decision: recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept as a basis and as a whole with editorial rights the committee presented in our submission the draft Law at registration number 1058. The main scientific and expert office concluded that a number of technical and editorial comments could be taken into account in the bill under registration number 1058. The Committee on Budget Affairs believes that Bill No. 1058 will have no impact on the State budget. The Anti-Corruption Policy Committee notes that there are no corruption factors in this bill. The Ukrainian Integration Committee with the European Union recognized the bill as number 1058 in such a way that it does not conflict with European Union law and Ukraine’s obligations in the field of European integration. Last but not least, if the Supreme Council decides to adopt Bill No. 1058 solely on a basis, the committee will not deny it and, in its order, will refine it and submit it for consideration in a second reading. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u93	Thank you, Paul. Dear colleagues, please sign in two for two against the factions. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! Please pass the word to Bilozer Larissa Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u95	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Yes, indeed, Law 1058, it encourages foreign producers to produce film products in Ukraine, it will really contribute to foreign investment in film production. The idea deserves support, but it is not clear where the Ukrainian local producer is. What do we do at the expense of Ukrainian cinematographers? You know, if someone thinks that Ukrainian cinema is not quality enough, then let's set standards for the audiences in the cinemas and leave support to our Ukrainian producers. You know, in all the countries of the world: Poland, Georgia and even Russia, anyone who spends money gets a rebyte, so-called cash rebyte, from 20 to 50 percent. And sometimes our manufacturers go abroad to get it. We actually had 16.6 percent support, so-called cash rebyte, but our producers couldn't get it because they needed changes to the Customs, the Budget Code. And now with this Law 1074 we're going to accept these changes. And this law is really called upon to support this situation. And I should, I think, leave the position to be here. I'd like to support you. Our faction supports, our Group "For the Future" will support an alternative 1058-1 law and we, because 1058 places in the discriminatory relationship of our and foreign producers. That's why we support 1058-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u96	Thank you. The word is given to Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna. Princely Nikola Leonidovich, faction of "European Solidarity",
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u97	My dear colleagues, first of all, I wanted to make it clear that these costs, which, in the form of grants, are given to the Rebyte, and in Project 1058, and 1058-1, are not distributed to the funds that are provided by the State. That is, a private person, if he takes off not for the money of the budget, has the right to receive a grant in part of the refund regardless of whether it is a Ukrainian or a foreigner, because if we prohibit the Ukrainians from receiving it, we violate article 24, which speaks of the prohibition of discrimination at their place of residence, article 22, which says that the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms are not allowed to be narrowed down and that we are thereby compromising Ukrainian producers and violating Ukraine's obligations to non-discrimination, and that is also the reason for stopping the visa. We will break our serious international obligations. However the law may not be passed, we express our willingness to continue working with colleagues on the committee in order to ensure that the adopted law is in line with the Constitution and that it really protects the Ukrainian cinematographer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please be quiet in the hall, or we've become very, very noisy. Let's hear what our colleagues are talking about. Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life", with motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u99	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, I'd like to pay attention, the remote didn't work, because I pressed the counter button. So I'd like two minutes. At the same time, when we consider the law today, we feel that there is peace in Ukraine, that pensioners receive a sufficient pension, people earn a salary, they are born to Ukraine, and we have only to support Hollywood producers. That's why the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" will not vote in favour of this law. And it insists that the daily regulations needed by Ukrainian citizens are in order. It's about the bill. We urge him to vote only in the first reading, not in any way in general, because he has serious, substantial warnings, particularly regarding the unfair treatment of Ukrainian producers, as described in the alternative bill. So we insist only on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u100	That's a very good point. Unfortunately, peace has not yet come into our country, and we have not returned our territories. And I would like all the political forces to understand and support this when the Supreme Council approves certain or other decisions, such as those of yesterday. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, "The Voice" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, we will certainly support this bill on the basis of further work. But in the context of this question, I would like to point out and draw the attention of all the national MPs that unfortunately, just because of the technical problems, we have the very export service for the production of cinematography, when we see these shows from abroad, where they're filming Kiev and other cities in Ukraine, when we see the Ukrainian product when we see our station in Apple's commercial. They are now, unfortunately, subject to taxes, taxes on added value. And that makes them uncompetitive compared to other services. We have exceptions for transportation services, legal services, engineering services. And maybe you and I should finally fix this mistake that the legislator once made, and yet predict that if our filmmakers make these products, they may not pay the added value tax. And it's going to be even more ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! Question completed. Let's go to the vote. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (Registration No. 1058) amending the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine on the State Subsidy for the Return of Part of Qualified Expenses by a Foreign Cinematography Subject in the Production (Creating) of a Film in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[11:26:33]] For 285 Against - 1, holding - 36. Decision taken. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, have put to the vote a proposal to shorten the halftime of preparation for the second reading of the bill (registration number 1058). Please support and vote. [[11:27:08]] For 259. Counter-8, hold on to 56. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Budget on State Support for Cinematography (Registration No. 1074) I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[11:27:41]] For 270. Against 0, hold on to 45. Decision taken. The bill will be reviewed under reduced procedure. The report is given to the national deputy Tkachenk Alexander Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u103	Thank you for the previous bill. In fact, this bill is to amend the Budget Code on State Support, which will allow the introduction of the previous bill. That's it. The aim is to bring the Budget Code into line with the Act on State Support for Cinematography and to clarify the composition of the revenue and expenditure of the State budget. On the subject of the previous discussion, in 1058 as well as in the 1074 of the Budget Code, it is a matter of completing the Ukrainian budget with foreign funds, and this is the only way that costs can be realized. This is not about ending the financing of Ukrainian cinematographers, as they were disbursed directly from the state budget, which is why we see many films that have appeared, so they will stand out. Therefore, the request is not to manipulate the facts. And the last. The last thing I wanted to say about this is, how do you spend the Ukrainians' direct government spending on Ukrainian cinema, because there are no criteria that determine good movies, bad movies, or movies that collect 100,000 dollars in rents at the expense of 20 million dollars. It's also a question of how these costs were spent earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u104	Thank you. The words for the report are given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs of Kubbit Urija Mihajlovich. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u105	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, the Committee on Budget Affairs at its meeting on September 6th considered Bill 1074. The bill proposes to amend the Budget Code with a view to the practical implementation of the provisions of the Act on State support for cinematography, such as the individual payments provided for by this law from cinematography subjects, proposes to be included in the special budget fund of the State budget, with the next reference to State support for cinematography, and it is also intended to clearly consolidate the expenditure of the State budget for that purpose. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council and Minfin, as well as the Chambers of Auditors, have made substantial remarks to the bill on non-compliance with its provisions with the requirements of the Budget Code. During the drafting of the bill, disagreements were settled with both the drafters and the Ministry of Finance and the House of Auditors. Thus, the committee prepares proposals that the bill will meet the requirements of the Budget Code and will not violate the unity of the budget system. In view of the above, the Committee on Budgets decided to recommend to the Supreme Council draft Law No. 1074 as a result of the first reading review to be adopted on the basis and as a whole as a law taking into account the Committee's proposals for amending the bill in accordance with the agreed positions set out in the Committee's letter to the bill. The Budget Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council on the drafting of such a law, should provide the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications relating to the approved committee's decision on the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in two for two against the factions. Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich, faction of the "Slut of the People" Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u107	Thank you. Please pass the word to Lesi Zabranni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u108	Lesya Zabranna, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u109	Good day, Your Honor, colleagues! This is my first speech, and I'm particularly happy to start with that that I would like to support such an important bill. Today there were thoughts from colleagues about what, unfortunately, is not yet a time of peace in Ukraine. But we should remember that public opinion, patriotic spirit, and the effect of cinematography on all of this are clearly very and very important. And today, we have to do everything we can to ensure that, on the one hand, our young, very talented people who are involved in the industry, in the film industry, don't go abroad and really create a quality product for once again young generations, the middle generation to form a positive view of our country, to explore the problems of our country, and at the same time it will have a positive impact on the image of Ukraine around the world. As for the comments they were making. A detailed study of the bill allows us to say the following. First, there is indeed an expansion of the sources of the National Budget Special Fund, which at the same time will be spent on the support and development of the Ukrainian producer, the quality of the film. Second, there will be a clearly changed approach to the sources of finance for the film industry. And most importantly, the bill provides for a clear mechanism for involving private funds in film production. And I think a similar initiative will have a positive impact on the country's budget. And on the other hand, there is a positive impact on Ukraine's development in the world arena, including. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u110	Thank you. The word is given to Nina Petrovni Jujanini, the faction of European Solidarity. Princely Nikola Leonidovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u111	Thank you. First of all, I want to thank you. I want to report that in order to fully draft the bill on State support for cinematographers, we have adopted amendments to the Customs and Tax Code in the past, we have not made it to the Budget. I would like to thank the authors of this bill from the last summons, our vice-speaker, Mrs. Condratuk, Chervakovi, Greenview. Over here, Abdulina, Medunice. The ones who wrote this bill. Those MPs who voted in favour of this bill in the last call of the Supreme Council. I also thank those MPs from the People's Party who have rewritten this bill and are proposing to vote again. And the Patriots are going to rejoin it, and we're going to support this bill. And I urge everyone to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u112	Thank you. The reason for this is given to Konstankevich Irina Miroslavni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u113	Dear National Deputies! First of all, I want to thank those who are shaping the agenda of our session, that such bills in support of the cinema are being considered and are relevant to our agenda. I would like to stress in my own words that we have a unique opportunity to support Ukrainian cinema by directing financial opportunities to the development of Ukrainian cinema. And I want to remind you that this unique opportunity for Ukrainian cinema was a hundred years ago. If you recall, in the 1920s, the Ukrainian film in the person of Alexander Longzhenka, Yuri Janowski, Mike Johanssen, Alexa Slysarenko and many others showed the world that Ukraine, as a nation, was a nation. It was a unique film and Alexander Long's film "The Earth" entered the 12 best films of all time and peoples. Now we have this opportunity to show again and again the world that Ukraine is one of the modern European world powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u114	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u115	Finish it. And there are dozens of masterpieces in the field of Ukrainian cinematographers, and now we're all waiting for Vasil Sklar's movie Black Crow, and we're waiting to celebrate.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u116	Thank you. Olena Konstantinovna, first Vice-Speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u117	Vice-speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u118	Vice-speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, thank you very much. We can't help but welcome the initiative of such important and twofold, I would say, bills and, clearly, that the basic basic laws have been laid down in the past by a series of national deputies already in the Act on State Support for Cinematography. I want to tell you that it wasn't that easy to go through all of these periphery and discussion that involved both the introduction of the Customs and Tax Codes. And you know, we're not going to argue about authorship today, because we understand that the overweight of this law should work quickly. I don't know if it's possible to vote on it in general today, because, as Solomon's parable says, when women bring him a child, women act wisely and propose, regardless of the authorship, and to whom this law belongs, to vote on it in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u120	Thank you, Helen Constantine. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's go to the vote, please take your seats with the Ukrainian national deputies. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Law (registration number 1074): amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on State Support for Cinematography. Please support and vote. [[11:38:53]] For 327 Against 0. We're holding on to two. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there were suggestions in the hall to support this bill as a whole, if there is no objection to putting the motion to the vote. One minute, who? Sumar? Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u121	Thank you, Mr. Head! Before this discussion I want to say one important thing, we did a lot and a lot of things in the Parliament of the previous convening, including Alexander Tkachenko and Mikola Knezhicki and Olena Kondratuk. For the sphere of Ukrainian culture to develop, this applies to both songs and cinematographers. And it's very important to understand that you have to love your country to allow creative people to realize themselves in Ukraine. For Ukrainians to be proud of their country, it's also about the economy, because it creates jobs in the cultural sphere. That is why we clearly support this bill, and in general, we are willing to vote, and we call on the hall to support everyone in the same way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u123	And considering that of course we were all working together on this bill in a previous vocation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u124	Let's work together today, so I'm putting to a vote, a proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights, a draft Act (registration number 1074) amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on State support for cinema. Please support and vote. [[11:40:51]] For 325 Against 0. Hold on to 0. Please show by factions: "Serve of the People" – 231, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 21, "Fathership" – 17, "For the Future" – 15, "Voice" – 18, "non-factional" – 23. Dear colleagues, welcome. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. We turn to the following issue of the agenda: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Sources of Financing for Road Economy of Ukraine (for the implementation of medium-term development planning and maintenance of road routes for general use) (registration number 1041). I'd like to take a brief look at this. Please support and vote. [[11:41:54]] For 268. Thank you. Decision taken. For -268. Against it, 1 / 1 We're holding on to 47. Let us move on to the issue of the simplified procedure. The report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kubrakov Aleksandro Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich! Your attention is given to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Sources of Finance for Road Economy of Ukraine (for the implementation of midterm development planning and maintenance of road routes for general use, (registration number 1041) from 06.09. The bill was defined as urgent by the President of Ukraine and at the first meeting of the Supreme Council from 29 to 30 August. The bill is designed to ensure medium and long - term obligations under construction contracts, capital and medium - time repairs of public and local roads. The bill is systematically related to the bill (registration number 1064 — completed) from 06.09. on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on Medium-term Development Planning and Maintaining Roadways of General Use, which we will consider on Tuesday. The essence of the bill is to allow district government administrations as owners and roadkeepers of local importance to direct subsidies to Ukraine's national budget to local budgets, also to project-learning, scientific and research work on the functioning of information and analysis systems there and so forth. In short, now the local authorities, they can't use the cost of a road fund to prepare project documentation and other similar work. So, well, how. Okay, the planning of construction, reconstruction, capital and current mid-term repairs will be approved according to the National Target Economic Program, which will be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thus, the adoption of the bill will allow for medium-term budget planning of construction, reconstruction, repairs and maintenance of the roadways of general use, state and local importance, will promote competition in the market and exit of new players, including foreign players, which will ultimately lead to higher quality roads and increased performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u126	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u127	Please support the adoption of Bill 1041 as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u128	Thank you. The first deputy head of the Transport and Infrastructure Committee, Klimenko Yulia Leonidivni, is given the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u129	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The committee has considered Bill 1041 – finalized and I want to tell you that it will change after its adoption. First of all, it's medium-term planning, so if we have a planning and implementation for 12 months now, we're going to let you build road infrastructure objects, bridges for 3 years, that's design and construction, because you understand that infrastructure objects aren't built in 12 months and they're not designed. That is, the road fund will be able to make commitments and implement for three years. The other one. The list of construction and reconstruction sites is transmitted from the Cabinet of Ministers to the Ministry of Infrastructure in order to better determine what needs to be repaired and constructed. Third. The approval by the Budget Committee of a list of roads, road infrastructure that will be built and repaired, i.e. passed on to the Executive Authority, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Cabinet of Ministers. And the third. Local council. local, more loyal communities will be able to join the construction of roads of national importance and co-finance them. This is mobility and speed, including interest and local communities. So please support this bill. The committee supports this bill, and we also ask it to support the hall on the basis of possible revisions, if any. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u130	Thank you. I'd like you to sign up for factions two in a row, two in a row. Kiesel Yuri Grigorovich, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u131	Please pass the word to Motovilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u132	Andrew Motovilovac, "Serial of the People" faction. Turn on the microphone. Engineer, "Serial of the People" faction, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u133	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Please support this bill. For two days now, we've been looking at changes in the permit system for construction. This is an important step that will allow us to change the country: to build more roads, to design, to involve everyone from the "Staff" to the cities to change the infrastructure in our country. This is what our voters are waiting for. Please support this bill, it is very important and very important to have its impact on the following bills that will be adopted in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u134	Thank you. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Bondarev, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u135	Dear friends! Our faction will support this bill in the first reading. There are really questions that are raised in it, and what are the necessary ways for society today to build, and everyone understands that. And in recent days, we have adopted a series of bills that will take this step forward and very powerfully meet the strong and beautiful future of Ukraine with roads. But for the second reading, we would like to study the cost of research, including the cost of experts. There's an audit question, it's necessary, but 5 percent of the cost of roads is maybe too much. So I would like to focus on the fact that we have to make it impossible for a corruption component in these issues and make it so that all costs are clear and transparent. Once again, I repeat that our faction will support this bill in the first reading, and for the second reading, I am confident that we can work out all the issues on the committee and make every effort to prove to the Supreme Council and to all the society that there is no corruption in road construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u136	Thank you. The word is given to Billozer Larissa Mikolayovni, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u137	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Dubnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u138	Jaroslav Dubnevich, group, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to emphasize one thing. When a road fund, a special road fund, was created, it clearly defined the percentage of road repairs – 60 percent, and 35 percent – for repairs to local roads. And 120,000 miles [120,000 km] of local roads were transferred to district administrations. And 47 states left, where 35,000 -- these are the roads of territorial importance -- these are the roads of so-called "heavy" that unite the cities of district importance. When we're this bill now, which we want to accept, give God that we're taking as a basis and maybe we'll fix these non-aggressors that are in this bill. We're kind of allowing local communities to co-finance public roads is the first step towards the ability and willingness of the central authority to pass on "heaviest", 37,000 square. 37,000 miles on the shoulders of local communities. That's the first one. The main problem is that it's unacceptable. And the next question. Taking control of the budget committee's budget function for the approval of the list of roads, we are once again changing the base itself and the parity itself that was set up in a special road fund, where it was clearly determined that the district administration determines the number of roads. You want to pass this on to the Ministry of Infrastructure, please, but take the parliamentary function of control so that MPs can see.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u140	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u141	Thank you. It's unacceptable. At all times, central authorities want fewer local authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u142	Savrasov Maksim Vitaliovich. [[Applause]] It's a faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u143	Please pass the word to Velichkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u144	Grand Chief, European Solidarity faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u145	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, it is a pleasure to see that we are moving in this room to the issues that concern our people. It's also about culture, about infrastructure, and about road construction. "European Solidarity" supports this bill because roads need to be planned and financed for less than a year. The big, big roads are planned, well, who has something to do with this farm understands how this is happening. That's why we'll support it. The only thing that there are some observations and the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority is some discussions inside this room in different factions, so we're saying that "European solidarity" will be supported in the first reading. I even propose to give it a short version of how to prepare the rights in a timely manner and to consider this bill as soon as possible for the next plenary week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u146	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? The reason is given to Dougan Viktor Mikolaiovich, deputy minister of infrastructure, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u147	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! It's a really important bill. And I wanted to literally disprove the thesis of the people's deputy Dubnewich, who knows very well that the Ministry of Infrastructure, which will approve the list of roads, the Cabinet of Ministers are accountable to the Supreme Council. And all the big projects. First of all, we've adopted the National Transport Strategy. We're preparing a strategy plan. We are in agreement with the European Union. In addition, there is a mechanism such as the Interministerial Commission of Investment Projects, which includes deputies. So all the big projects will be agreed upon. But the night before the adoption of the budget, some roads should not be cleared on the budget committee. It's not systematic and it's wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u148	Thank you. Turn on the Dubnevich microphone for replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u149	He is now a respected deputy minister of infrastructure. I've had a lot of discussions in the past. Yes, I agree that public roads and state projects, there are no questions, the agreement of the Ministry of Infrastructure. But my point is to the local roads, which are 120,000 miles [120,000 km]. And taking down the agreement on the budget committee, on the consent of the local roads, is inappropriate. Because it's clearly prescribed. Once again, the district administration provides a list of the agreement between Ukraine and Ukraine's Committee of Budgets. And you want to take the MP's control. And we're going to get the same thing that we got in the past in the Mikolai district and others. When the governor determined what list, and one made a "gold" area, he made local roads. And only on the budget committee could that be corrected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u150	Question completed. Let's go to the vote. National deputies, please take your seats. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (Registration No. 1041) amending the Ukrainian Law on Road Finance Sources (for the implementation of medium-term development planning and maintenance of road routes for general use). Please support and vote. [[11:56:02]] For 337 Against 0, hold on to 2. Decision taken. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for the second reading of the bill (registration number 1041) amending the Ukrainian Law on Road Finance Sources (for the introduction of medium-term development planning and maintenance of road routes for general use). Please support and vote. [[11:56:48]] For 264 Against - 1, holding - 53. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there's a 30-minute recess. 30 minutes. We start work at 12:30. Please don't be late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! Please take your seats. Faction leaders, please invite Ukrainian national deputies to the hall. Let's get to work. All agreed to be on time. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin our work. You have been given a draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on certain issues of the functioning of authorized economic operators (registration No. 1048, 1048-1). Since the bill contains more than 100 articles, it will be discussed in full. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Mr. Let's get to the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u152	Dear National Deputies! A bill called the authorized economic operators is being tabled. What's this bill about? This bill is drafted in accordance with the Agreement with the European Community and provides for the simplification of customs formalities for individual authorised economic operators that meet the criteria set out in the legislation. First of all, I would like to thank Parliament for its last call, for their observation that this bill has been drafted by them. Indeed, we took the basis of that bill that was drafted in the previous parliament, but it was thoroughly elaborated. And unfortunately, it hasn't been accepted for several years, which caused a lot of damage to the image of our country and the customs of goods. This bill agrees with our European colleagues and contributes to the formation of so - called continuous supply chains. For authorised economic operators, there is a general financial guarantee, a self-imposing of seals for the execution of the goods. And also the simplification of the declaration and the release of goods at the location. In the course of the drafting of this bill. The committee made its proposals and asked to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u153	Thank you. Question to the reporter. Please sign up. Bondarev Constantine Anatoliyovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u154	Dear friends! We have a vision of the need to adopt this law. Indeed, we have some external obligations. But always a good idea can have very bad consequences. There's a question, I'm sure before the first reading of this law, as an idea formulated beautifully, but it's going to have to be worked out. Tell me, please, how is there going to be no mega-carrier or mega-regulator in this market? How to make sure there is no monopoly on this market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u155	Look, actually, I don't think there's any reason to talk, even about the monopoly, as a result of the adoption of this law. Moreover, there is a need to limit the claims made to the Authorized State Authority, because for us this procedure is new and we are legally imposing such restrictions, at the same time during the first year we can't have more than 10 such appeals, and then 20, and 30, to 3 years, after 3 years we've already taken these limits off. I don't think we have any grounds to talk about one monopoly operator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u156	Thank you. Eugene Nina Petrovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u157	Mr. Chairman of the Committee, we were actually talking to you about taking into account the Committee's proposals and partly taking them into account. But you can see that after the committee's meeting, customs experts are the most currently writing publications because the option proposed by the committee cannot be launched in Ukraine, because, first of all, part of the rules provide for more simplifications and advantages than in the Customs Code of the European Union. And secondly, what's completely violating the rights of our Ukrainian medium-sized enterprise, and perhaps even a small one, is able to meet the high criteria that we set out to simplify. Don't you think there's work to be done with the expert society? Because theory is a theory, and as it works in practice, they know more about us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u158	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u159	Thank you for asking. In fact, I wanted to talk to you in a substantive way, how do we not remove our domestic or the manufacturer, or the carrier, or the operator from the circle of those who might become authorized economic operators? What are the obstacles? It seems to me that there are no obstacles, the authorized economic operator is the resident of our country, which meets the criteria that are set. If it meets these criteria, it can be allowed to do so. and create continuous supply chains without any problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u160	Thank you. Please, Coltunovich, Opposition Platform.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u161	Reverend Danilo Alexanderovich! I have a question to ask you about the real economic benefits and prospects that we can get from the implementation of your bill? After all, considering that he is going to our home, he is urgent. And I would like to pay attention precisely as a result of the introduction in Ukraine of an institution of an authorised economic operator, similar to that of the European Union. Can we talk about any specific calculations and economic impact as a result of the introduction of this norm and primarily for small, medium-sized businesses and in general for the national economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u162	Thank you for asking. You and I need to consider this bill in conjunction with the bill that we're going to consider next on common transit. This bill, these two bills will allow us to unify the system of our customs treatment of goods with Europe. What is it? It's real-time communication, and it's an end to smuggling in the first place. You and I are estimated to be smuggling experts at around 100 million dollars per year of government budget unaccounted for, so that's where we can start if we're talking about calculations. And most importantly, it seems to me that European customs procedures will finally be introduced for our customs office. And this is very important for overcoming corruption risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u163	Thank you, Danilo Alexandrovich. A report from the alternative bill 1048-1 of Ukraine's national deputy, Nina Petrovna, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u164	Dear Mr. Head! First of all, thank you very much for the fact that this draft law is not a simplified procedure, because it is both dual and must be understood, and society must now hear that we want to introduce, implement into Ukrainian legislation. In fact, as early as June 2016, we saw this initiative from the government, we returned the initiative, and the government itself asked for a return because there were changes to the Customs Code of the European Union. They haven't been translated yet, and we haven't been able to implement what we don't or don't understand, or we don't know how it's changed in the Customs Code of the European Union, so we've been moving for a long time, but this is a very important question, so I want you all to understand. Dear colleagues, an authorized economic operator is a truly ordinary business, a Ukrainian resident who can receive special simplifications. And it's going to have a set of special simplifications, and it's going to be category C, and one simplification can be given separately -- this is category B. Importers' Enterprises, exporters each individually or in combination can have special simplifications both in one category and in another, or in a combination of both. What does special simplification mean? Please listen to the special simplifications provided in the articles of the Customs Code. This is the procedure for release by location, the simplified declaration procedure, the general financial guarantee with the reduced amount, the self-imposing of special type seals. In order to meet the criteria set out in this draft law, five such difficult studies, studies, will be carried out by executive authority in accordance with five criteria. The criteria are quite detailed in the working groups that worked on the second reading of the draft law just so that there are no distortions in the implementation of the law. We know how this is done in life, so we've written pretty deeply in the day after the control body is supposed to fit in when it's conducting the evaluation procedure to meet the criteria. What? Why did we register with colleagues from "European Solidarity" an alternative bill? Because we were not heard in the working groups, in the committee when the bill was put into the hall, that is, we want to remove the differences that are and do not correspond to the Customs Code of the European Union, the simplifications or advantages that can be applied by more payers than the solely authorized economic operator. Because, for example, going through the study on all five criteria is too difficult. Maybe if we were to write an alternative bill in order to use a separate form of forgiveness, we'd only have to study a few criteria. It's just like a travel ticket -- you can buy for all kinds of transportation, but you can buy for one, because I don't have to use all the simplifications and benefits, because I don't use them. So in the alternative bill, we also give other businesses, not exclusively authorized economic operators, because their numbers will be limited and that's right and I support you, Mr. Head, that we can't use the new procedure now for all those who want to. So, indeed, there are now amendments, in the committee's decision a certain list, 10 authorized economic operators in the first year, who will work in this market in order of living, and so on. But there are simplifications, special simplifications that our medium and small businesses can definitely use, which cannot meet the five criteria. What is it? This is a simplified declaration procedure. Please tell me it's criminal or not. Well, at all, what can't we allow a medium-sized enterprise? We all know that the current declaration is made up of 54 graphs, these graphs have more subgraphs, and its completion in a qualified broker takes 4-8 hours. There is a provision in the Customs Code for a simplified declaration, and then an additional declaration is made to the enterprise within five days of the simplified one being adopted. If we set the right criteria for such payers, for such external economic activities, why do we not allow it? In the European Union, this simplification is allowed for all businesses. As for the second one. Self-imposing of special type seals on export. Look, we are. Do you think we have only 10 exporters with transnational companies, even assuming that exclusively exporters can get into authorized economic operators? This makes it so much easier and removes criminal sealing deals that are imposed by customs officials. You can do that, and we've given you exactly what criteria an enterprise needs to meet to use this special simplification. What's next? One percent of the total guarantee. A hundred percent! Why can't we give all businesses a total percent guarantee, that is, 100 percent of the customs payments that they have to make? Why are we doing this again exclusively for authorized economic operators? So these are the special simplifications that the alternative bill offers us and that support the entire expert community, which has made a lot of comments these days about the bill that was passed on to the committee. Now I want the advantages that we're going to give, and that we can't even provide theoretically, and that are not in the Customs Code, and I want to stress them, that's exactly what we included in the alternative bill. This is an automatic method of determining the customs value of a contract for an authorized economic operator. We foresee a level playing field, we have 57 and 58 articles of the Customs Code, which includes the first method of determining the customs value for all payers, for all external economic operators. The other one. This is an advantage for authorized economic operators to perform customs formalities in the first place. Logically, this cannot be implemented because all customs declarations are submitted electronically and an automated customs system determines the list of customs formalities automatically: what to do, when to do and whether or not this customs declaration is automatically formulated. So if you say that you need to determine the priority for authorized economic operators, that means we're going to allow manual interference in the automated system and the distribution between the performers in order to ensure this standard. We don't want to go back to manual intervention, do we? I don't think so. Separately, there are two articles of the Customs Code, 250th and 360th, which already contain a clear list of goods and cases that need to be drawn up in the first place. So what's the first line, what's the definition of the Customs Code for decades, or what we're doing now for individual subjects of entrepreneurial activity, even though I'm going to treat them with great respect, because compliance with all the criteria is a high assessment of the integrity of everyone who goes into authorized economic operators? But it's only logical that we had to rule out this rule in an alternative bill. Now I would like to stress that all citizens and you, honourable colleagues, understand that this bill not only introduces special simplifications and advantages for individual tax payers we recognize, but also introduces a new concept as a "general declaration of arrival." That's what we've never had. This is indeed the right step, for a loving business entity is obliged to inform the customs authority of Ukraine, which product, cargo, name, price, and all the necessary data. This prejudices the considerable number of violations that are currently taking place. It's also a substitution of documents along the way of moving goods, and so on and so forth. Yeah, well, as far as this is concerned, we have some kind of basic bill that provides for authorized economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u165	Ten seconds, Nina Petrovna, more. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u166	I'm done. On the basis of this General Declaration, the arrival of this, from the customs authority, may be reported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u167	Thank you. Please tell me, will there be questions for the reporter? Please sign up for the questions. Mikisha Dmitry Sergiyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u168	Please pass the word to Hannah the Wheeler.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u169	Pass the word to Annie the Wheeler, please. Annie Wheeler, please turn on the microphone. Is the map still there? Gettmans. Turn on the Gethman microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u170	Yes, thank you. The headphone's not working. It's already working. So, look, really, a lot of the right comments that you've made, we've taken into account. But what wasn't included in the working group, not because we didn't want to take into account, not because we don't want to accept as authorized economic operators the middle business, but because if we do, we're going to make this exception, we're not going to be able to join the EU at all. We just don't get involved. And for individual simplifications. Please look at the Joint Transit Act, allowing for such separate simplifications outside the law that we are currently discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u171	Dear Mr. Danilo, with great respect to you, look, we are these very special simplifications that can be allowed for those enterprises that will meet certain criteria that I have just discussed in detail, we have just agreed with the European Commission at that stage. And I'm telling you, two years working on this draft law, we've come to such finesse that European Commission specialists, they've been directly involved with us, and they said it's your right. Because such a right is provided by the European Union, the Customs Code of the European Union for its payers. If we think we can trust someone in some part, do it. But you'll understand that the benefits that we're giving right now are not going to provide us in other countries of the European Union. We have to act in sync with the European Union Codex. And we'll be, well, uncomfortable. Because we give this testimony to our authorized economic operators as proof of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u172	Nina Petrovna. Next up is Alexander Vasilovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u173	Please pass the word to Daniel Getmantsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u174	Danilo the Gethmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u175	Thank you for the word. Nina Petrovna, in fact, we also work with our European colleagues. And unfortunately, we have another result. And this is the kind of thing that you either accept in the state you are in, or you don't accept at all. And I think it's much more important for us to start this as we go. The way it is. And then make the changes and bring it all to the perfect state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u176	Thank you for your comment. I really think so, too. But I hear the people who wrote to us now that you're building a building in which a rotten, fragile foundation is built. And you want 24 floors above to stand and function. This will all fall apart as soon as these changes are implemented. That is why such warnings are being sounded. And I think to take into account what I just did, well if we go to second reading and you take into account the amendments that I'm going to make to second reading, because I understand that you're going to adopt your draft law as a basis, that would be much more progress and professional, well, that would be a concession for all who are interested in making this system work. I'm definitely interested in having this institute work in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u177	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Dear colleagues, since the Gethmans have spoken and he is also a representative of the committee, I suggest we move on to the factions. Please sign up for the factions. Bragar Evgeny Vadimovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u178	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u179	Put it in the microphone, please. Please insert the card. Gettman's Daniel Alexanderovich. You can't pass it twice. Please come out, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u180	Thank you. I would like to point out that this bill has been discussed in society for three years, and all three years, everyone who wanted to apply it, discussed it, supplemented it, changed it. Let's finally, given the enormous work that was actually done at the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of the past convening, we've taken all these amendments into account, let's go. Worked out, reconciled with our European partners, with which we need to harmonize our standards, let's adopt this law in the way it is today, run and I'm convinced that at a time when we're going to see in a year what we're going to do, we're going to make changes and make this institution, well if it's not perfect, we're going to be close to ideal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u181	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Bondarev Constantine Anatoliyovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u182	The Fatherland faction, Bondarev Constantine. Friends, disadvantaged positions, toothless and toothless, forerunners of all those who took part in the negotiations when they entered the world society, have led us to today's situation when we should introduce appropriate bills to require world society. But there are very important warnings. The first situation is the situation of the corruption component. Who will ensure that these goods are transported throughout Ukraine without being stolen and actually paid for? I read in this bill that financial guarantees would seem to be provided. Why don't you pay up? There is a second question: the question of the general existence of this process without restrictions on access to the free market, without monopolization. Today, the criteria for participating in this market will be allocated to appropriate organizations or companies that will give these criteria documents. Who will shape these criteria? I'm sure on the first reading we should adopt this bill. But the second question is, if we don't hear the right criteria, the clear conditions for participating in this market of the relevant operators, I'm sure without answering all these questions we shouldn't vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u183	Thank you. The word is given by Osadchuk Andrija Petrovich, a faction. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, The Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill. This is an example of European integration giving our entrepreneurs a certain and direct advantage. Yes, of course, this bill was not drafted on the first day; it was developed on the last occasion. In fact, it took three years to become an active mechanism that would allow conscientious entrepreneurs to undergo faster-than-exchange, more momentary formalities. And deliver our services and goods to the world, too, to support our economy. I very much ask you to participate in the drafting of this bill. I'm sure the committee will be open to the right. But we just can't help but take it as soon as possible. And the last. As has already been pointed out, this bill is working with another, on common transit. It will also consider the following, and it also allows us not only to simplify the conditions for our entrepreneurs, but also to take a huge step towards overcoming smuggling, confiscation and everything else. So I ask you to support this bill as a basis. And the next bill, which is also necessary for our businesses, is to support in general so that we can adopt those standards as quickly as possible and simplify our customs procedures for all entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u185	Thank you. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Nina Petrovna Jujanina, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u186	Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to say that we have to implement in Ukrainian legislation what is better than in the Customs Union. So the implementation of this institution is going to be huge. Secondly, while I was away in the rostrum, we've already talked about, there's a point that if you make amendments to the bill, what's in the alternative, you have to agree with the European Commission. But if we have 14 days to consider the second reading, I ask the committee head to agree. And quickly agree with the European Commission at least what can be agreed upon. Then, indeed, it will be the right step for all of us together. And separately, I gave a separate letter, on the last day of my stay, to my position as head of the committee of profile. I'm a single letter, and I want to read it out loud again, for all Ukrainians. I want to thank all the members of the working group who worked on this government bill for the second reading, which was the basis of the draft law, are experts Sergei Serevettnik, Budakov Andrew, Moskalenko Alexander, Drozic Oksana, Olifirenko Andrý, Muratov Igor, Warm Andrew and my colleague in the previous gathering of Ostrik Tetjan. Thank you all, your work has not been in vain, and thank you, colleagues, for supporting the very work that has been passed into this bill, thank you and let us vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u187	With one minute's motive, Bondar Viktor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, our MP group thinks this is an extremely useful and important bill. We really need to take it today and 1048 is already the way forward, this is the way to make automated economic operators, these Ukrainian companies that can do customs themselves, to process themselves, to clean up all the corruption risks that exist today, to clean up the bureaucratic fiber. Bill 1048, it's more extensive, it's more integrated, and I understand that not everything there is certain government there with certain norms, but at least 1048 exactly can be accepted, it's already a way forward, it's a way that long ago, eight years ago, on my memory, says the entire customs service, says the European society that you do, facilitate procedures for Ukrainian businesses. So we call for this bill to be supported, and believe me, this is the first time that businesses can themselves do the work that customs are doing today, it's in the best interest of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u189	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Nesterenko Kirilo Aleksandrovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u190	Can I have a microphone? Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Mary Mezentsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u191	Maria Mezentsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u192	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u193	Mesentse's two minutes then, because there were two of them right there.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u194	Hello. Congratulations, fellow Members, I think it is very important for the people of Ukraine to understand the meaning of Bill 1048 and to explain it with very simple words. I want to point out that he was actually working with both the European Commission and Minfin for more than three years. But for entrepreneurs to understand what he's about, I'd like to make some comments. Indeed, small businesses that do not operate transparently will not be able to use this bill. But we need to understand the fact that we have a certain deadline for implementing this system. In the first year it's going to be 10 enterprises, in the second year it's going to be 20 to 50 and so on. We have a question that we have 60 businesses in the country? There are hundreds of thousands, so clearly this bill is needed. It's all under the Association Agreement, we've signed it a long time ago, we're doing it, it's an important step towards customs. And I want to point out to entrepreneurs and manufacturers the key advantages of the 1048 bill. First. This is a much smaller number of customs checks. Friends, we all understand what bribes we've developed in time of customs independence. The other one. Customs should report on the purpose of carrying out the inspection, that is, you are not suddenly checked by customs officers. Third. Customs clearance takes place in the first order. And last of all, there's an opportunity to form goods in storage, which is a great advantage. Friends, let's work together to increase trade with the European Union today. I urge you to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you very much. Let's vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u195	Thank you, Maria Sergiyevna. I have an offer, and there's a statement from "The Servant of the People," and someone asked for a motive? Klimpush-Cincadze, one minute. And let's go to the vote. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u196	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I would really like to ask you to support this bill so that we can take into account the proposals made in Bill 1048-1 in the second reading. Why is this important? In fact, this bill on authorized economic operators, and the next one on shared transit, we are implementing one of our priorities for implementing the Association Agreement, namely deepening cooperation in the customs direction. And for us it's really this big job that's been going on for the last three years, and now it has a real chance, with your participation and your help, to become a real policy that will make it easier for our individual entrepreneurs to make it a substantial, momentary passage of customs procedures. And then, I hope that we can and will provide more opportunities for all entrepreneurs who are going to want to export or import.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u197	Marchuk, one minute, with motive. The "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear Head, well, there's already a lot of talk on the subject of this bill. But I'd like to add two more very important things, in my opinion, that the introduction of the Institute of Authorized Economic Operator is a step towards restoring the reputation of state authority as a business partner, which in non-political terms and also in real matters will show the entrepreneurial and business community that cooperation with the state is not only necessary, but also economically beneficial. And the last. With regard to transparent and secure supply chains, this will enable national-authorized economic operators not only to increase their internal and external competition but also to ensure a more visible presence of Ukrainian economic operators in the world economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u199	Thank you, Igor Petrovich. Dear colleagues, me. It seems to me that both Danilo Alexanderovich and Nina Petrovna have made many comments on this issue today, perhaps we will miss the closing word. Thank you. So I suggest because the discussion is over. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of draft Law 1048. (registration number 1048) on amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine on certain issues relating to the functioning of authorized economic operators. Please support and vote. [[13:13:14]] For 332 Thank you. For -332, versus -0, held -3. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 232, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 16, "European Solidarity" – 20, "Fathership" – 17, "For the Future" – 12, "Voice" – 18, "non-fractional" – 17. Thank you, dear colleagues. And if there's no objection, I suggest you cut the line. Okay. Then let's move on to the next question of the agenda. A bill on the common transit regime and the implementation of the national electronic transit system (registration number 1082) has been submitted for your consideration. I'd like to take a brief look at this. Please support and vote. [[13:14:15]] For 291 Against three, holding on to 27. The decision is taken, the bill will be considered for a reduced procedure. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, you have a bill of 1082 on the common transit regime for your consideration. What's this bill about? You and I are planning to join the so-called NCTS system within the Association Agreement, which provides us with the possibility of sharing information with 35 countries around the world, to exchange customs information online. This system predicts that our customs office will see the entire history of the movement of goods in those countries and transmit the information it has to our partners, This bill foresees the operation of an electronic system in test mode. We plan that it will function for about a year, then it will be tested by our European partners, and then we will join the Joint Transit Agreement and we will now be guided directly by the provisions of the Agreement. Thus, this bill has a transitory meaning for today. What do I want to pay attention to? I would like to draw the attention of a respected society to the fact that only one proposal that is in agreement with the National Bank of Ukraine is presented in the bill, you can see it in conclusion. So I ask you to consider the possibility that everyone present is very important to the country, by the way, with the previous law, the bill, to accept as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u201	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. I'd like you to sign up for factions two in a row, two in a row. Ziba Tetjana Viktorovna, faction of the political party "The Servant of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u202	Please pass the word to Anna the Wheeler.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u203	Anna Wheeler, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u204	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Thank you for giving me your word. Ukrainian customs legislation should gradually approach the EU's customs legislation, and I ask for the proposed draft law to be supported. This is primarily due to the need to bring the national legislation of Ukraine to the provisions of the Convention on the Common Transit Procedure and the Convention on the Simplification of Formalities in Trade in Goods. A number of advantages that will give Ukraine the implementation of the draft Joint Transit Procedure Act are: the regularisation of a common transit regime through the customs territory of Ukraine, the openness of customs formalities, the application of special transit facilitations, the introduction of a new computerized transit system for Ukraine existing in the European Union, the acceleration and costing of the movement of goods from which all participants will win: exporters, importers, carriers, and, most importantly, it will help to establish mutual trust between the State and business and to establish a dialogue between them. Thank you for your attention and once again ask for your support and opportunity to bring Ukraine closer to the standards of customs legislation of the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u205	Thank you. Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u206	Thank you. Please pass the word to your colleague Belkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u207	Olga Belkova, "The Fatherland" faction. Turn on the microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u208	Thank you very much. Honorary Presidium, dear colleagues, today we are considering a project designed to introduce a so - called joint transit with the countries of the European Union and some other countries using a new computerized system called NCTS. The introduction of a common tariff, transit, sorry, this is not just one of the points of the Association Agreement with the EU, it is our duty to pass on to business the opportunities that exist in other countries. It's an opportunity to exchange electronic data with customs in advance of the arrival of goods on customs, it's a clear and clear rules for transiting goods, it's a reduction in administrative pressure and workload on business, a reduction in costs. There are also benefits for the customs office. It's a direct exchange of all data between customs administrations of different countries, a risk-oriented transit control of goods prior to their arrival in Ukraine, the elimination of the possibilities of manipulation with customs documents and the reduction of all control procedures, even more computerization, digitization of so-called processes, and the reduction of human factor. Customs is another very real step, and it's very important on our path to real Euro integration. Our faction will support this law and appreciate its constructive work on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u209	Thank you. Nina Petrovna Jujanina, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, I'd like to explain a little bit, so it doesn't seem like it's all going to work now and it's going to work immediately. And the main observation that is, but we're going to leave it behind. Because we want it now. In general, the basic requirement of the European side to Ukraine, well, on the way to joining the NCTS, is the successful testing of the national subsystem for one year. But because we have a separate law that doesn't apply. With no change in the Customs Code, we have practically two transit procedures -- one that is currently in operation and one that is similar to the Convention on Procedures -- on a common procedure. The authorised consignee and the authorized consignor will operate only under the common transit procedure. So they won't be available to those who are using the current system. And since we don't have those who will use this special system, we won't, because we've changed the Customs Code and the Tax Code. In fact, we're this law, if it's accepted, we're just opening the way for now to create all the preconditions for starting this system. That is, for the European Union to buy software for Ukraine, for the very beginning of the administration that we want. And I think we're all now in the clear mind that if we can at least get what I said in half a year, we're going to get the right laws that we're going to adopt in order for this system to really work, and authorized exporters and importers can use them both as ours and as Europeans. So I would like us to really support it in general. But if we can change it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u211	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u212	To authorized economic operators, we should synchronize. But despite that, I still think, let's take it as a whole, let's let this system go.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u213	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, the Voice faction, with motives. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill. It really simplifies all customs procedures. It makes it possible for our importers, exporters, manufacturers to spend a lot of money on this process of blurry and border crossings. Most importantly, we are able to obtain information from other customs offices and understand where the risk is needed to check whether it is necessary. And the last. I'm sure this bill, it worked for a long time. He has worked for several years and is now practically ready. There's only one amendment to it. And I very much ask everyone to support it immediately in general so that we can give our businesses as much as possible a signal that customs are changing, our economy is improving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u215	Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunović, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u216	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Of course, the draft Ukrainian law is relevant, it is on time. He should be supported there in the first reading and in general. But the main point that I wanted to pay attention to is that we are. Of course, communication is good. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there are no permits, including transit permits, for freight carriers, for example, with Poland or Hungary, which is actually stopping us from entering and expansing into the European consumer market. It's holding back exports. That's why I'm paying attention to the fact that, of course, communication is good. But there is a second important point. If we're talking about the Association Agreement and the European market, of course, we need to understand that Ukraine's transit potential lies both in deepening and cooperating with the Eurasian Economic Union. At the very least, Belarus, we must also drive and implement there, and unify our legislation to the requirements and rules that are in force there today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u217	Please give the floor to Maxim Nephrodova for a minute. Turn on the Nephrodite microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u218	Dear colleagues! I very much ask the State Customs to also support this bill on the basis and in general. It's just a beautiful history of customslessness that will allow Ukrainian players to leave Ukraine and to come to Portugal by one truck with one document, with one guarantee, and it also simplifies and costs European goods to Ukrainian consumers. I think it's just one of the steps that will allow our citizens to show that the Association Agreement is not just a theory, it's a practice that can improve their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u219	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for the first reading on the basis of the draft Law (Registration No. 1082) on the common transit regime and the implementation of the national electronic transit system. Please support and vote. [[13:26:00]] For 333 Against 0, hold on to 1. Dear colleagues, there have been many suggestions to support this bill as a whole. Please be supportive. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the Common Transit and National Electronic Transit System (Registration No. 1082). Please support and vote. [[13:26:42]] For 333 Against 0, hold on to 2. Show the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 233, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 17, "European Solidarity" – 20, "The Fatherhood" – 16, "For the Future" – 11, "The Voice" – 16, "the Non-Factional" – 20. Thank you. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, I propose just in case, as yesterday, that we continue our work after 18, if necessary. Yesterday we finished even earlier, even though we continued our work. So I propose that we continue our work day until we have exhausted the issue of order. Please support and vote. [[13:27:43]] For 281 Against 0, hold on to 35. Thank you, the decision is made. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Improving the Functioning of the State Markets of Financial Services (Registration No. 1069) (1069-1, 1069-2). The bill, since it is more than 100 articles, will be considered in full procedure. The report is given by Florov Paul Valeriyovich, a national deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u220	Good day, dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! We have registered Bill 1069. Its aim is to reduce the number of regulators and control bodies in non-bank financial services markets through the distribution of Nazfinservice functions among other regulators, namely Nazbank and NNCPFR. In order to avoid unnecessary pressure on the business of banking financial institutions, this bill introduces the principle of proportionality, proportionality of regulatory requirements and supervisory actions, according to which, in the exercise of regulation and supervision, the National Bank will take into account the size of the legal person, the type of activity it carries and its risks, the financial situation. At the same time, the text of the bill is large, almost 50 pages, and it has been elaborated on the committee, so we do not deny the adoption of the bill in the version of the alternative bill 1069-1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u221	Thank you, Paul Valeriovich. Especially for the laxity with which you reported the above-mentioned bill. Dear National Deputies! The floor is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Bondaryev Kostin Anatoliyevich, for the submission of an alternative bill 1069-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u222	Thank you to the previous speaker for supporting my bill. Dear colleagues! Bill 1069-1, which I have introduced, proposes to consolidate supervision of all banking and financial markets in one government body. Instead of two committees, the National Commission on Securities and Markets and Nazcomfinservices, it is proposed that one be created by granting and providing the necessary institutional powers. The main difference is that in the first two projects, supervision of the non-bank market is dispersed between the NBA and the Nazcomfinservices. I find such irrigation ineffective. First of all, it will not contribute to the implementation of the accrual system of pensions. Because the supervision of the system’s entities by pension funds and insurance companies that carry out life insurance will be carried out by two different organs, i.e. there is no single approach. One part of the non-bank financial market will be regulated according to one rule and approach, the other according to the other. Other speakers also took note of this. And that's what I agree with. In addition, there is an active discussion today, including at the IMF level, about the need to separate banking supervision from a separate government body in the next 2-3 years. Because in many countries of the world, primarily in the EU, the Central Bank is only responsible for monetary policy, namely exchange rate and financial stability. And banking supervision and supervision of other finuistans are the responsibility of a separate supervisory body. The question is whether the NBA should now be given additional non-proper powers to oversee non-bank financial institutions if, after 2-3 years, it will be necessary to give these powers along with bank supervision to another public authority. Such shocks will have a negative impact on the state regulation of banks, non-bank institutions and their customers. So I propose to support my Bill 1069-1 in the first reading, which immediately foresees the creation of a kind of mega-regulator, which will then be able to be transferred by bank supervision, also by leaving its primary function behind the NBA, ensuring the stability of the monetary unit, which is enshrined in article 99 of the Constitution of Ukraine. At the same time, I understand that the adoption of the SPLIT bill by October 1 requires the President of Ukraine, and this is also agreed upon with the IMF, so the government needs to perform its duties towards international partners. I believe that Bill 1069-1 is essentially in full compliance with the IMF Memorandum of Understanding on the Consolidation of the Supervisory Function and does not create risks for the non-bank financial sector. Dear friends, money loves silence. I propose not to make any violent waves in this market and maintain financial stability in Ukraine, but support my bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u223	For the report on the alternative bill (1069-2), the Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy of the Dubinsky Alexandre Anatoliyovich is given the floor. Alexander Anatolyevich, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, we're about to report, I'm going to report to you on Bill 1069-2, because it was him who worked on the committee and was supported with all the adjustments, along with the working groups. A lot of people have accepted this bill and we've suggested that we accept it in general today, although if we want to go through it fully, we're ready. By the way, I was going to say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u225	We'll expect it to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u226	On the previous call, Decree 0963 was adopted, and in the first reading, a decree was passed on the first reading of the SLIT Bill under number 0963. Before we vote 1069-2, we have to cancel Decree 0963. We have to cancel 0963, it was accepted in the previous call.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u227	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u228	The consultation has ended, I continue to report. What is Bill 1069-2? In financial circles it's called SPLIT, it's a division of supervision between banking and not banking institutions, between the National Securities Commission on the stock market and the National Bank. At the same time, termination of the activities of the National Commission on Financial Services Market Regulation. This bill is a marker of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund and this bill greatly improves the terms of regulation and supervision of financial institutions. Because this regulation is becoming more transparent and more specific. We've conducted a lot of work groups to take into account all the proposals that came from market participants, profile associations, expert environments, analysts. And I can say that we removed 1069-2 from this bill all of them. I hope all the issues that have arisen in the market. First, we've allowed the operation of so-called financing funds for construction and real estate funds, along with banks. Because in the previous version, these funds were to cease their operations as of January 1, 2020. And now we've left this opportunity to the banks until they're fully committed to it. Separated types of asset management and property management during construction financing. We've foreseen an opportunity for a business office for a month to suspend the decision of the NCSPF and the NBA in part of non-bank financial institutions to impose a fine. All major changes to audit, audit, and accounting laws are included. And after lengthy discussions, that's what I was talking about, they agreed that banks would be able to manage construction finance and real estate operations. That is, all the people who are now as investors in these funds can be calm, and bank obligations will be fulfilled. And we've also removed the carte blanche to essentially bring any of the state-owned institutions. And they are such additional requirements from the National Bank after the adoption of SPIET and. Financial institutions will be accepted if this is not regulated by law and only in this case. The main scientific and expert office made their comments to the bills and we counted them. And so, with regard to Bill 1069-2, the board noted that it did not object to its adoption. The committee supported this bill on September 6th, and so I'm asking him to accept it on the first reading as a basis and, if you don't mind, as a whole. Thank you and vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u229	Thank you, Alexander Anatolyovich. Questions Will Be Answered? No, it's not. Let's go from factions to groups. Please sign up. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u230	I'm sorry. Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor! Of course, the draft law is important. It is relevant today. But there are a number of points that need to be taken into account. Well, the first, the most important thing to do is to warn and make it impossible for us to have this situation that we had in the 14th, 19th years, when we had the number of banks in Ukraine that had dropped from 180 to 76, that was more than twice. What was the situation with the lenders and investors of these banks we also know. So from this point of view, first of all, I would like to make such risks impossible. And most of all, what I would also like to pay attention to is that we had today, and I even wrote out what was said repeatedly by saying that this is a requirement of the International Monetary Fund, we have responsibilities to the International Monetary Fund. So first of all, I would like to point out that the proposals we made are in the interests of the national, economic and citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u231	Thank you. Blue Oleg Mikhailovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u232	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u233	Irina Stepanovna Lucenko, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u234	Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the "European Solidarity" faction welcomes the initiatives "Serves of the People" in support of our bills and reforms initiated by the powder team in previous reading, and for this we welcome you today, as we observe how a number of laws worked by the Dustenka team are supported by your majority today, and that is very pleasant for us. Bill 1069-2 has been finalized, we will support and recommend it today. Your colleagues noted the advantages of this law, this is the bill that was introduced by President Dustenk's team number 2413 as part of a single package of bills that were sent, and there were about 8 that were sent to heal the financial market. This is one of the last bills that we've worked on for two years with the International Monetary Fund, along with the World Bank, with experts, experts and, above all, with the National Bank of Ukraine. That's why "European Solidarity" will support it. The only thing I wanted to add is the effects that this bill will have already worked out in the final version. It's also the harmonization of the legislative base, it's also the avoidance of regulatory arbitration, it's the social interest, it's also the publication of information, it's the support for transparency and competitiveness, it's the control of the quality of the provision of financial services, and clearly defined regulators that will protect consumers of financial services, it's also the international effect that President Poshenko spoke about, and today, in addressing Parliament, President Zelensky spoke a few days ago, it's also the implementation of better international practices, it's the first to fulfil commitments to European Union directives. I would like to remind you that the Association Agreement with the European Union foresees more than 5,000 tasks for Ukraine, half of which we have already been able to perform in the previous call. This is also an improvement in our investment attraction as a state of Ukraine. Therefore, European Solidarity thanks once again to colleagues of greatness and will support this bill bearing the badge 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u235	Bondarev Constantine Anatoliyovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u236	Dear friends, very briefly, I will simply try to explain to you what today is about. The main bill is proposed and the second alternative is to create a mega-regulator based on the National Bank, to which the entire financial market is subordinated. I ask you to remember how this mega-regulator has already adjusted the banking market. People are talking about the banking genocide, which was in 2015, 2016. And who introduced him, please tell me. It was introduced by the team of the Potters: Mrs. Rozkova and other genre classics; they remained in their seats. Today we are offered the same command to regulate insurance companies, pension funds, other financial institutions. You can't do that. We need to build another financial regulator, and I've suggested that we leave the banks under the National Bank of Ukraine, but we need to create another regulator to regulate this market in a transparent way. Today the whole professional community, it's excited, it's really, really buzzing. Today, trust in the National Bank is zero. What are we talking about now? What is the discussion? There's no trust in the National Bank today. Or first, we need to create a programme of activities for the National Bank, bring in understanding people who will guarantee peace and the future for this market, and then give additional functions and powers. Another observation. The National Bank is a separate state in the state, it regulates its activities under the National Bank of Ukraine Act. This law enables the National Bank to make the right decision and the entity cannot stop the decision of the National Bank, even if it goes to court. I mean, he's such a monster. And when this monster is run, not from Ukraine, but from the outside, my friends, well, I don't advise you to make that decision. Once again, please listen to me, you have to have 2 independent regulators and we can only create them by adopting my law - 1069-1. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u237	Thank you. Jaroslav Ivanovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, strangely enough, this bill is not new either. I looked at the first time it was introduced, this is July 2015. This bill awaits business, this bill awaits our international partners, and this bill is primarily for our economy. If very, very briefly what it gives, it doesn't increase authority, it reduces control organs and most importantly, it finally gives our economy a chance to get a stable financial sector. We all want to see better insurance services, we all want to see better deposit guarantees, and most importantly, we all want to finally get a new pension system that's going to be cumulative or mixed, but it's going to be a step forward. And without that law, we'll never get it. We've been discussing it for a long time. In fact, he's been in Parliament for five years, he's been practically prepared, just the last summons hasn't been able to accept him. So since we already have a finalized bill, our proposal, it takes all the notes into account, it takes into account the changes that there is, it has a very large transition period and we, if we can work it out. So today, honourable national MPs, let's take it as a whole and show that this Supreme Council and this country are ready for change, including in the financial sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u239	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Bragar Evgen Vadimovich, the "Serving of the People" faction, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u240	Please pass the word to Olga Vassilevsky-Smagluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u241	Olga Vasilevska-Smagluk from the site, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u242	May I? Olga Vasilevska-Smagluk, 96th constituency. I've been supporting my colleagues, and this law has been in Parliament since the 15th year. Few, however, had been promoted by the previous coalition for consideration 18 times, but the past deputies failed. I can say that this bill is very much needed, and I support it because it eliminates the excess chain. For example, nonstate pension funds have two regulators at once. This is both Nazcomfinservices and NCCPF. The elimination of the excess chain will not only speed up and ease the lives of market participants but also make it easier for tax payers to live in surplus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u243	Thank you. Please sign up for the national MPs of Ukraine. Zupanin Andriy Viktorovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, our faction welcomes the healthy initiatives of our opponents and is ready to support them. Let me point out, though, that in the Supreme Council of the Eighth Council, there were a total of over 13,000 drafts. And I am deeply grateful to our colleagues who spent their precious time sitting at night to find those bills that are the only ones that can be passed on to vote in our composition of the Supreme Council. Let me remind you that in Parliament of the eighth call, there were bills, for example, about. The proposal to read the "Father Our" prayer before the opening of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council, despite the fact that Ukraine is a secular state and despite the fact that there may be deputies of other religious beliefs in the Supreme Council. There was also a bill to prohibit any sexual orientation in a public place. It's a bill offering to replace the coins on the rubles. A bill prohibiting abortion at the request of women. And "high on the cake" is a bill on the demaculation of the Ukrainian language.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u245	Dear colleague, I'm sorry to interrupt. But that doesn't apply to Bill 1069-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u246	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u247	Let's, or we're talking now about the questions that are in the agenda, or just, well, everybody says what they want. Thank you. Nina Petrovna Jujanina, faction of European Solidarity. Please turn on the microphone of Yuzanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u248	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to say that the most important thing is that we always follow the principle of "no harm". By enacting new laws, by adopting changes to laws, we have to do one thing: not harm the business. It seems to me that this is exactly the kind of law that will remove a lot of unnecessary links and repetitions that would stand up and carry on the very business that's doing in these areas. And thank you very much for not violating the basic principles of the Financial Reporting and Auditing Act, the Accounting and Financial Reporting Act. So it's important that we keep going like this. We will also support the adoption of this law as a whole. Because we have to put an end to the duality we've seen over the years. And I'm sure that in doing it right without exceeding the authority of the law, it's really going to bring about changes both for business and for regulators as well, and for users of services in the first place.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u249	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Oksana Vasilovna's owl, non-factional. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u250	First of all, I want to say that we support those bills that are aimed at raising public regulatory policy in the financial sphere, as well as establishing transparent procedures. So I will personally support this bill because it allows for more free movement in the financial market. But at the same time, I would like to say the following. Let's plan things like reducing the interest rate on youth lending, because now it's very young. Many young families need primarily affordable housing percentages. Therefore, we need to consider some of those bills that will support young people who will allow young people to plan their future in Ukraine and to go abroad. And as for a colleague from the "Serve of the People" who was talking about the Bills of Our Father," I want to tell you that at the Ivano-Frankow City Council, at the beginning of the meetings, they're singing the hymn and praying "Our Father," and believe me, they're all very pleased with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u251	Fellows, let's still be within the limits of the rule before the question that's being considered. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, I suggest you don't make any final remarks. Let's go straight to the vote, we're moving pretty good. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law on the basis of the first reading, the registration number, the one supported by the committee, 1069-2, to amend certain legislative acts to improve the functions of government regulation of financial services markets. Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:54:11]] For 301 Against one, hold on to seven. Show me the factions, please. 224 – Servant of the People, Opposition Platform – Life 14, European Solidarity 17, Parenthood – 4, Future: 9, Voice – 18, non-fractional – 15. Colleagues, there are suggestions to vote in general. So I'm voting on a proposal to enact a law in general with technical law. What? I can't hear you. [[B in m in s a l in]] The motive is Heroshenko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u252	Thank you, Your Honor. We are truly happy that the session room now adopts extremely important laws and let me explain what is going on. If the bill of the previous Supreme Council was registered and not heard in the first reading, such a bill is considered, indeed, not to have passed as ill-considered. But now we're looking at the bills that went through the first reading in the previous Supreme Council. And there's an appropriate letter from the head of the Supreme Council, Andreya Parubia, the eighth calling, to us as transitional laws. That is why we today say that unfortunately we could consider these laws today in a second reading and in general under other numbers. But we have to admit that you have acquired the intellectual work of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call only under your surnames.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u253	Dear colleagues! Thank you. Irina Volodymyrna, I don't think there was a bill under registration number 1069, so. Vlasenko. Turn it on, please. Who? Hairy, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u254	Bondariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u255	Please turn on the microphone for Bondary's Constantine Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u256	Positions were expressed, and there are some other points. I would like to make suggestions and amendments to that bill that was adopted in the first reading. So if there's such a possibility, I'm asking you to give me that opportunity. Therefore, this bill cannot be adopted as a whole today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-12-m0.u257	My colleagues, look, with all due respect, the entire room supports Bill 1069-2. With all due respect, colleagues, I understand. But let's not just work on... on the interests of the state. And today there is a position to support. I'm asking you to support me. If there are additional amendments, they can then be reviewed and amended to the law. And today, let's support it in general. So if you don't mind, I'm voting on the proposal to enact a law in general with the necessary technical and legal rights (registration number 1069-2) to amend certain legislative acts to improve functions from the state regulation of financial services markets. Please support and vote. [[13:57:46]] For 296 Against two, hold on to 20. Thank you. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We're meeting at 16. Please don't be late.
