ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u1	Good morning, everyone in the hall, prepare for registration. So please prepare for registration. So, colleagues, please hold the registration and please register. [[10:03:21]] 270 national deputies registered. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And, dear colleagues, yesterday we had some disturbing news. Today, I want to share the good news that shows that the rematch needs to be stopped and that it is possible. Thanks to the uncompromising and active position of Ukrainian students, the Rector of the Kyiv National University of Shevchenka canceled his appointment as professor of the University of Odyssey, Andrija Portnova. Dear colleagues, the same Portnova, the "court lawyer" Yanukovich, who was directly involved in the Euromaidan race, in the students' race. Yesterday, you students showed everyone who wanted to implement the script of the pro-Russian rematch that we would not allow it and would not allow it, that Ukrainians should be proud of such young people. I remember the '80s when I had the honor of being in the student movement and also being arrested. Both during the Orange Revolution and during the Dignity Revolution, students were an avant-garde of change and a guarantee that the rematch would not pass. Thank you very much to the students at Taras Shevchenk, Kyiv National University, and welcome the responsible decision of the rectorate and the direction of the university. Congratulations, colleagues. And I want to say that before I go to "the hour of questions to the government," I would like to give the floor to Oleg Lazka. There's been an announcement about a break from two factions: the Radical Party and the People's Front. They're ready to take a break from the rostrum. And I give the floor to Oleg Valeriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I address you. Today I have addressed to the Head of the Supreme Council the invitation to provide us with signed letters for the holding of June 27, the next Thursday, the extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council, where we propose to consider two issues. The first question is the adoption of Law 6607 on the Open Register of Pedophiles. And the second question is Bill 6449 on the chemical castration of pedophiles. I want to inform you that over the past five months, in Ukraine, almost 160 children have suffered from sexual crimes. Only in the last century in Zaporozhye did the inhuman rape of a three-year-old child. A 10-year-old child was injured in the Chernigiv region. A 6-year-old boy suffered from sexual violence in the Plains. As you know, two days ago, the police found the body of a raped and tortured 11-year-old girl, Darya Lukyanenko, in the village of Ivanovka Odessa. Our responsibility is to stop the epidemic of violence against Ukrainian children. This tragedy, this beast in human form, can be found in any backdoor. Ukrainian families, mothers, have the right to know where the danger lies. After a similar terrible crime, when a neighbor killed and raped seven-year-old Megan Kanka in 94, a law was passed in America for the name of this murdered seven-year-old girl, Megan, where an open register of pedophiles was adopted. Any American can go in and see where those who have been punished for sexual violence live. And they can't be with the kids. Ukraine should be the same. Pedophiles, rapists, criminals convicted of sexual crimes cannot go more than a mile [km] to a normal person, to a normal child. This should be a taboo at all, so that they can approach the children. In addition to the open register of pedophiles, we propose to adopt a law on chemical castration. When this law was passed in Germany, crimes on sexual grounds dropped to 3 percent. In Britain from 40 to 5 percent. We have to do this. I call on you, Mr. Head, to all parliamentary factions to give 150 votes for the extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council next Thursday, June 27, with two questions: Open the paedophile register and castration of pedophiles. Let's put aside all political issues and protect Ukrainian children from sexual crimes. Enough killings and rapes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u3	Thank you. And now we, colleagues, move on to "the hour of questions to the government." I would like to inform you that the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine is Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Stepan Ivanovich Kubi and members of the government. Welcome to the government. And I invite you to speak with Stepan Ivanovich Kubi. Please, Mr. Stephen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Now everyone's talking a lot about economic growth, its causes, its pace and how fast it should be. Despite the apparent positive trend seen on the slide, it is not under simple government conditions that they still assume that growth is slow and requires more. So over the course of three years, we've provided 8.4 percent of GDP growth, and in these days, Statestat has increased its previous GDP growth estimate in the first quarter from 2.2 percent to 2.5 percent. This is thirteen blocks in a series of continuous growth in the face of a major change in the political landscape, political turbulence and the continuation of the actual war in eastern Ukraine with an aggressor, the Russian Federation. The defence and security of Ukraine is 5 percent of GDP or more than $6 billion a year, which we provide for defence and security. Dear colleagues, our statehood for 1180 years, and we protect it once again from the aggressors, our heroes daily preserve peace and tranquillity. Under these conditions, we succeeded in many ways and failed. But the joint actions of Parliament, the President, the government have shown that we can work together and produce a positive result. We've achieved a reduction in the shadow economy to 30 percent of GDP, which is 10 percent lower than in the 15th year. The government built over 6,000 miles [6,000 km] of roads. Mine-economic development experts, along with ministries and the Supreme Council, committees, deputies, have developed new legislation that will allow systematic investment in Ukrainian transport, port, and Internet infrastructure. Thank you, fellow ministers, for supporting this direction. Yesterday we signed a memorandum with the International Financial Corporation of the World Bank Group to involve international experts and international experience in the work on State-Private Partnership projects. It is an effective tool for involving large investments in the construction of roads, ports, bridges, large infrastructure objects, and the use of broadband Internet throughout Ukraine. There are already several pilot projects and even investors waiting to participate in these projects. Examples in Europe, examples in Turkey, examples in Australia are different areas of state-private partnership. More to the point, the implementation of these projects means quality roads and plus 5-7 percent of annual GDP growth, as well as tens of thousands of new jobs in Ukraine. Along with the National Bank, we're conducting monetary liberalisation. Yesterday a standard was in place that invalidates the mandatory sale of the currency. The edge has long demonstrated stability. The government has recently cancelled not 100, not 200, but 800 outdated or ineffective regulatory acts. We are confident that this will have a positive impact on Ukraine's business climate. Structural reforms in all key areas have allowed Ukraine to significantly strengthen its positions in international ratings. But internal procedures and quality of life must be arranged. The Ministry of Economic Development, along with the ministries, is doing great work. and the Ministry of Economic Development should be empowered to develop the digital economy. The digital agenda for Ukraine has been actively developing for 3 years. Finally, however, the inequity functions of other authorities in the field of digitization should be reduced. Ukraine should follow the example of fellow Europeans and change the traditional Ministry of Economics to the Ministry of Digital Economy of Ukraine. The work of Parliament's committees should also be optimized, where there should be an effective committee from the digital economy. Further work on intellectual property is a guarantee of positive changes in the development of Ukrainian innovation, startups, digitization. Yesterday, I personally opened a forum where I started developing an intellectual property strategy in Ukraine. It will be formed by the best Ukrainian and international experts of the World Intellectual Property Organization. The very unity of members of the Supreme Council, the government and the President can improve and increase the priorities of intellectual property that will be able to give economic growth 8-9 percent a year, which is essential today for Ukraine. Government efforts have already affected the lives of Ukrainian families, and we have settled inflation at 8.8 percent in April 2019, and wages have increased. Job search sites say that in the private sector, the average wage in April 19th is almost $440 in the equivalent of Nazbank. Above all, this means that the private sector has improved its affairs and has the opportunity to pay higher wages. The next step is to balance the average income and especially the spending of Ukrainian families. Economic growth should mean higher income, and economic modernisation, support for Ukrainian production, energy efficiency measures should ensure lower cost of Ukrainian production. In the future, we should form a strong middle class in Ukraine. A major achievement was the commitment to free trade with the EU, allowing the EU to become a major trading partner for Ukraine and to compensate for the lost Russian market. As you know, today the EU's share of goods and services exports is 42.6 percent, and it's growing steadily. In the 18th year, we started exporting 15 percent more goods to the EU. At the same time, we went to markets in Africa, the Middle East, South America, and Asia. The fertile Ukrainian land, the hardworking people, and the talent of Ukrainian farmers produce this rich crop. For example, in 2018, this is 70 million tons, which is a record in Ukraine's years of independence. Our country produces agrarian products for 850 billion dollars and exports 18.6 billion dollars for 2018 alone. The share of Ukrainian production in Europe’s markets increased to 33.5 percent. Together with the increase in grain exports, we want to increase opportunities for high-tech manufacturing, processing, and the formation of joint ventures. So we need to develop IT industry and digitalization in agriculture, especially in small and medium-sized agrobusiness. In 2016-2018 we continued to work on opportunities for Ukrainian business: we entered into a Free Trade Agreement with Canada and Israel. True, we are waiting for Parliament to ratify the covenant with Israel, and I urge it to do so as soon as possible. Digital services also need to be developed more widely. As an example. On August 1, 2016, ProZorro’s electronic public procurement system became mandatory for use throughout Ukraine. This is the joint work of our team: the economic development, the ministries, the secretariat of the Cabinet of Ministers, the offices, the committees of the Supreme Council, international partners and donors. The government's decentralization reform has enabled the ProZorro system to be effectively launched. Sales. The sales, which are now operating in 24 regions of Ukraine, involve 238 cities and villages. In a year and a half, the number of auctions increased by almost 10 times, amounting to 3.5 thousand. At these auctions, self - government agencies sell, rent utilities, conduct small privatizations, license advertising, fairs, services, parking, and entertainment. Today, small and medium-sized businesses are the main bidders in ProZorro. Each month, it registers nearly 5,000 new suppliers, of which nearly 80 percent are local business representatives operating within one of the two areas. Going to e-fields to conduct state-owned purchases and small privatization are successful examples that we should continue. Yes, since August 2018, i.e. 10 months of the State Property Fund through ProZorro. Sales sold 440 of the same unattractive objects for nearly half a billion dollars. That's 10 times more than it was sold in 2015. Competition and transparency have once again improved the efficiency of the work in general. In ten months, the country was privatized with 1 billion 60 million dollars. Two new portals for public control of the use of international technical assistance and state-owned enterprises are under way. Right now, anyone willing can go to the website from their smartphone and look at online information, the financial situation of 3.5 thousand state-owned enterprises. This information will soon be supplemented by an electronic financial report. Anyone can see which businesses are profitable, which are the ones that are causing the damage. This will allow the decision to be taken on further liquidation, privatization or corporateization of enterprises, as well as the transparent formation of state-based joint ventures. Separately working to support small and medium-sized businesses in regions. During the last year, we carried out 34 activities involving a total of one and a half thousand entrepreneurs from 17 regions of Ukraine. As regards the EU’s COSME programme, this allows 50 million euros to be involved for small and medium-sized enterprises. Thanks to cooperation with Germany (16-18) 437 Ukrainian entrepreneurs took part in this program and made contracts for over 360 million dollars. Access to small administrative services is becoming better for business and citizens. At present, there are 787 administrative services centers, 95 remote executive jobs, and three mobile centers. We've done a lot for the army. Since 2014, about 26,000 weapons, weapons, and military equipment of Ukrainian production have been transferred to ensure the security of the power structures. 7,000 of them are completely new and modernized. Mine-economic development in support of the people's deputies of the Supreme Council, the committees, the President of Ukraine, has increased by 100 times the APC's funding from 30 million 16th to 3.2 billion in the 18th year. As a result, over 200 developments in new military equipment have been implemented in the APC for three years. The implementation of new projects takes an average of 2-4 years. Today we can talk about concrete results. Only the reform system will ensure a massive economic growth, and we must move boldly away from the remnants of the Soviet planned economy that still lives in many areas. But under the changing political landscape, the key priorities for Ukraine's development, economy, society must remain unchanged. This is about the EU and NATO, but also about priority economic reforms: support for export promotion, business climate simplification, reform of public procurement, reform of governance, industrial development and industrial defence, intellectual property reform, development of the digital economy and money. So before the session is concluded, I suggest you put three, just three bills that significantly stimulate Ukraine's economic development: concessions (second reading) 8125, which reform the scope of concessional legislation; the Investment Promotion Bill (8124), Ukraine's position in the Business Rating and the Oxana Sale Project (4,650), which envisions a relief of the control body's pressure. We also have a debt with you to miners. And we need to make a change, and it's agreed that it's procedural with the government's budget commission to solve this problem. Glory to Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u5	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Thank you for the report. And, colleagues, I want to remind you that we have a record of factions' questions first, and then of national MPs. So I'm asking all the factions who are going to ask questions to the government to record. Please. Hipko Andry Fedorovich from the Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u6	Good afternoon. I have a question about the "Available Drugs" program. Since April 1, electronic recipes have started to work and problems have arisen. First: The number of pharmacies that have joined the program has decreased dramatically. Second: serving one electronic recipe takes 10-15 minutes, and if you have 2-3 recipes, you have to serve it under an hour. The third is that the electronic system works with huge failures. The sick stand in line for days and are unable to receive a cure. I have a clear question: Who specifically is responsible for this, and why does a system that should work for people force them to refuse treatment or to stand in line for hours? I ask not only an oral answer, but I ask that I consider my question to be the address of a national MP and I want it in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u7	Thank you for asking. Dear fellow National MPs, I want to report that they bought online through ProZorro for medical institutions, on April 25, launched the first state online store at ProZorro. There are principles that are being implemented today -- no officials, no mediators. The project is currently working in Kiev. the pilot mode, spreads through the corresponding guidance of purchase. At the same time, prices for medical devices are deregulation. On March 6th, in the framework of the deregulation cabinet, the government supported our offer and cancelled the price of regulation for medical products when buying at state expense because it cancelled the price of regulation for medical products, and the purchases were artificially deficient in dealing with deficits and other problems. And the third is the transition to a unified classification of medical equipment. This classification is being used in 70 countries around the world, and I want to say that this example is going to be the transition of Ukrainian medical facilities to an international unified classification, which means the destruction of manipulations of medical institutions about existing drugs and other drugs. At the same time, the specific question that you have asked is a parliamentary question. And the second. Roman Romanovich Ilik is a deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u8	Good day to you all. Mr. Andrey, thank you for asking. I'm going to try to be specific about the specific questions you asked. First of all, we will prepare a written answer, of course, taking into account that this is a parliamentary request. At the same time, I want to say that the policies of available medicines are successful, because the vast majority of Ukrainians using the program are free of charge today or with little pay to get treatment from the most common diseases are cardiovascular, bronchial asthma and Type II diabetes. At the same time, since April of this year, the program has been administered by the National Health Service of Ukraine. Over 5,000 pharmacies have made a deal to cooperate with the National Service, which is an operator that provides financial transactions. Of course, the introduction of an electronic recipe on this scale, on a country-wide scale, in a national project, causes some delays in certain places, some difficulties. They are linked to both the central component of the national service itself and to the local information systems, and especially to facilities where there is no electronic ability to write a prescription. We've been looking at two options for running the program. This, or the first option, is a program in parallel paper recipe and electronic. The second format is only in electronic format. We stopped at the model that works today. Of course, it is today, and there are certain questions to it, but they will be settled and the program will continue to work at full capacity. Thank you for asking. And we'll prepare a written answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u9	Thank you. From "The Opposition Block" to the word "Stork Mikola Leonidovich."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u10	Good afternoon, distinguished Cabinet of Ministers. I have the next question. A few weeks ago, I saw boards on the streets of my city of Odessa that said, "Ukraine is not just a place on the map." And there was this tag below, "Grysman's Government." I've sent a request to the Cabinet of Ministers for whose funds these boards are financed. And it turns out that on these boards, the government spent 13 million 389,000 dollars. Do you think this is appropriate in this situation? Is there a Groysman team today? Because I know you're in different political parties today. And is that right? And the next question. Do you know of the situation that has resulted from the actions of the Minister of Health, the so - called Minister of Health, Mrs. Suprun, around Odessa National Medical University, where students and teachers have not received a salary for nearly five months. Do you think it's normal in Ukraine today?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u11	Mr. Mikola, thank you for asking. If you've asked the MP, of course, there will be an answer. I want to say that the government today is Ukrainian. A government appointed by Parliament. Today, governments and ministers perform the functions laid down by law. And today, from the point of view of certain answers to specific monetary questions, they will be asked. The prime minister today is Vladimir Borisovich Groisman. Medically, this is a question you've put at the facility, Roman Ilik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u12	Your Honor, thank you for asking. We understand that it is echoing from opposition politicians, politicians who have the right to an opposition point of view. At the same time, I want to address you as a person who, well, turns to the personal qualities of the acting minister and tells you the following. Note that after leaving the United States, a person came to live in Ukraine today to change and transform the medical field, to do all he could to ensure that people received timely medical care. So today, any statement like what's going on that's not true, I'll give you the answer. They, the changes that are taking place in the country, the transformation of the sector, are taking place according to the law in force, which has been passed in Parliament by the majority of the people's deputies. This provides for the autonomy of medical institutions, all of which are related to the change in the funding model. This includes the creation of a new national body, the National Health Service of Ukraine. This involves changing financial guarantees and defining a clear package of financial guarantees that the state will pay next year at the level of the secondary chain. At the level of the original chain, changes took place. And those who are now in the areas that work in the regions can now get a fýdbek from the workers that real changes in the original work. That is why the Ministry is working systematically today to ensure that a guaranteed package, a guaranteed list of services, is clearly defined from 2020, from January, Ukraine as a national scale project in accordance with the law. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u13	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u14	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. You know, I can't even talk about what the report is right now. Because it has to be a professional conversation. And this is, I'm sorry, the thimble. There's every number and it doesn't play with the second. I would like to mention that a month ago I asked the Prime Minister to transfer to ProZorro the supply of agricultural wagons. $3 million - monthly bribes, $3 million! And you're telling me what you support. I ask again, give me an answer to the MP's question about setting up ProZorro for the delivery of agricultural wagons. And the second question. Why since September 18th, the payment of financial assistance has been suspended for the members of the Civil Protection Service of the State Emergency Service, which has been paid in the event of death, injury, injury, illness since September 18th. We demand that the "Paternity" team restore it from the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u15	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u16	We require the law to restore and pay for the state's emergency warehouse, and to transfer to ProZorro the supply of wagons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u17	Who Will Answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u18	Dear Mrs. Alexander, as far as you're concerned, I've always, always been proud, proud of our cooperation with you. As for the discussion of the figures, they were based on official statistics, which today is unchanged, which is the law. And the third position is about the ProZorro request. At the request of payment, we accept your proposal as a parliamentary request, and you will receive an answer in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u19	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the words of the Bondar People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u20	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. When they meet citizens in their constituency, there's a lot that raises questions about agrarians, when they drop fields that can't breathe, they don't know which drugs. So I demand to ban the registration of drugs based on glyphosate, acetochlor, a combination of a group of neonicocyanoids, thiamethoxam, clothianidine, and so on. So these are the drugs that are harmful. At each meeting, people say that when they start to sprinkle the fields, they can neither breathe nor open the window, children get sick, they choke, they burn in their throats. Please state the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u21	Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u22	Who Will Answer? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. It is very relevant. And what I'm saying is that the Association of Agrarians, the Association of Beekeepers, who requested the Cabinet of Ministers, together with the professionals in the field, held a working meeting. The other one. The issue of a clear program was considered publicly on the government committee and the measures taken, including two bills passed on to the committee. Third. As for the current questions you said, I will give the floor to Mr. Topchio Volodymyr, Deputy Minister of Agrarian Politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u24	Thank you. Indeed, such a problem exists. At the beginning of the field work, the work involved in protecting crops from pests has unfortunately taken place. And on each occasion, on each occasion, there are appropriate responses, there are appropriate studies of the situation on the ground, as well as the forces of the Maintenance Service, and the involvement of those or other structures that have a bearing on compliance with regulations and compliance. And on each of these occasions, there are results that we hope that at the time of the future they're going to cut significantly, and, in principle, they have, this kind of negative practice has to go back to history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u25	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Buglak's Block of Peter Dustenk?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Sporis Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u27	Please, National MP Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u28	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. I'd like to ask Mr. Omelan, Minister of Infrastructure. I'd like to point out, because what's ambiguous and in many speeches I've been asked a question to the Supreme Council and a question to the government all the time. It's again on Winnitzkin, it's the Way of the High Chrysopyl limestone. Thank God they started there yesterday. A couple of holes have already been thrown. And I'll tell you that at the end of the day, the head of the raider was in limestone, and he saw it all. He saw that the road and the Romanian road that the Romanians built were still on track in the 43rd year. But there's a capital need to be repaired. These few holes that they threw in there, it doesn't mean anything. I'm asking you very much, although it's not your legal responsibility, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u29	Thank you. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u30	Please give it to me anyway. Well, roads are being built, no questions asked, Winnitzkin. But it's a special road, so there's not even that, there's a hole completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u31	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. I'd like to start by saying that Winnitzkin isn't really equipped with financing for repairs and road construction. Secondly, I would very much ask that all the national MPs who are in the hall today be re-elected, and the new national MPs, voting in the 2020 budget, remember the axiom: the 2020 Road Fund is 75 billion dollars and 100 percent of the fuel excise plus additional financing of 50 billion dollars to rebuild the circuit road, including this road. You very rightly said that the road was built in Romania for the Romanian occupation. I wanted to let you know that in certain areas, we are now building roads that we saw the technology last 100 years ago. We can make roads of quality across Ukraine on only one condition: there is money, there are roads. It won't be any different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u32	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the Self-Help faction of National Deputy Sergei Kiral.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u33	Stepan Ivanovich, a question to you from your profile. And that's basically a couple of MPs I've been referring to both you personally and the Minister of Finance. Ukraine is a shareholder, one of the shareholders of the Black Sea Development Bank. My information and what's published on the bank's website shows that the bank is completely under the control of the Russian Federation. It finances mainly projects in the Russian Federation, especially the recently signed memorandum with the Rostov region, where they send tanks and weapons to Ukraine and shoot our boys to develop this region. You personally participate in the sessions of this bank. A representative from Ukraine is the sad, notorious Mr. Petnicki. At the same time, Ukraine is not a member of the Council of Europe Development Bank, which finances largely social infrastructure, such as the modernization of the penitentiary system, medical facilities and gardens. Why can't we move on, get out of the Black Sea Development Bank and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u34	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u35	And join the Council of Europe Development Bank, stop funding Russia, and finally engage in our social infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. I would say, first of all, that financing the production of weapons, what they said, is not true, because it's not in the position and existence of the bank. That's not true. And do not make political false statements. The other one. The fact that I participated in the annual meetings is true. We have made the report public accordingly. Third. All Ukraine's projects, including small and medium-sized businesses, which the State of Ukraine has offered, are funded. Four. You are truthfully saying that there is a need to increase lending for Ukraine from that bank. That's a question I put in session. There is a loan committee decision to cooperate with state banks for a considerable amount of money for Ukraine. So we're balancing the balance. What you're proposing and when the bank was formed, the situation in the Black Sea pool was quite different. The procedure for switching capital is different. This is a matter that needs to be settled. We also discussed this issue at a government working meeting, as appropriate. And as for participation in other banks, it's also a question that needs to be taken at the level of government. It deserves some respect and study for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u37	And from the "will of the people" group, I invite you to the speech of National Deputy Sergey Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u38	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear Stepan Ivanovich, please tell us that Luhansk has an ecological disaster. Thirty - nine mines in that area are completely flooded. The cities of Zolote, Hirské, Toshkovka, Pásnjan district This was reported to me by my assistants, Sergey the Great, that today the total power of debt has been cut off. Luhansk’s energy mix washes completely over the miners and does not provide electricity; at least the drain goes away. If this water falls into the Sea of Silver and then into the Sea of Azów, there will, indeed, be an ecological disaster not only in Luhansk, but throughout the country. Note this. It's different. Please tell me, when will Lugani roads be taken into consideration? There is no one, and only some money has been allocated for 2020.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u39	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u40	I demand the minister to leave, and I would ask the whole of Kabmin to go to Luhansk, at least one passing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. I want to tell you that what I promised you in the last meeting of the Supreme Council, Mr. Vladimir Omelian's Minister of Infrastructure, has given a clear answer to every question, you can now get a copy because it hasn't been physically delivered by mail. This time. The other one. The Ministry of Infrastructure provided clear information to the State Agency for Road Traffic at two meetings in the Supreme Council. Like the 14th to 15th year, the formation of the audit that you asked for, and the question of putting the road into 2.5 billion dollars. This question you will receive, as appropriate, is now the answer, Mr. People's Deputy. It's about coal industry and coal mines. We understand very well that coal industry is now one of the main sectors of the national economy of Ukraine. We understand that the efficiency of thermal energy, metallurgy, utilities depends on the quality and price of coal in the market. I also want to say that, starting in 2014, funding for the technical resupply of clean passage discharges, stationary equipment and the environmental direction cannot physically go through for the reason that only 33 mines have a total production capacity of 11.7 million tons that are being used at 01.01. In 19th year, only 3 percent of today are in control territory. The rest of the question is being studied, and we are deeply aware of this problem. And I'd like to give the floor to Deputy Energy Minister Corn Anatoly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! In your question is, yes, indeed, the problem that exists is the threat of sinking our businesses, the mines that are in an uncontrollable territory. But last year, the construction and expansion of the watershed was funded specifically on the Golden Mine in the Pervomayan region. And to this day, the situation of the flow of water from the mines of uncontrolled territory is under control and beyond my control. For information today, it does not pose a particular threat. Indeed, there is a problem with the treatment of mined water. But now the project is also preparing a decision, and at the expense of it, the Luhansk Military and Civil Administration will be funded, and they will be contracting for the construction of clean-up buildings on the Golden Mine, which will drain these waters to prevent water and environment pollution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u43	So now the questions from the national MPs. So I'm asking all the MPs who are going to ask the government questions to record. Please. Storm Igor Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u44	Igor Šurma. Please give my word to my colleague, Martovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u45	Dear Stephen Ivanovich, I ask you to listen carefully, because this question concerns 300,000 West Donbass residents. I have, by the way, repeatedly addressed the government and personally to Groysman about the tense situation of providing drinking water to West Donbass residents. There's this company called Dnipro-West Donbas, which has 100 percent of state property. There's an unappreciative paraphernalia of this, I've been addressing, please state the order so that people can see if there's a perspective on this pipeline. There's no prospect of its development right now, there's nothing. And we can leave 300,000 people without water, and then it's not just a place on the map, it's this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u46	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u47	I say people are waiting for an answer, but they don't see any perspective. I think, and a lot of people think, both city measures and district administrations think that this should go to regional level and finance, and it should be redesigned from a regional level, because it's very important. Well, what do you think you should do without water? Water must also be of a quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u48	I want to thank you for asking. I want to say that, as early as 2016, I, personally, at the direction of the Prime Minister and Gennady Zubka, held several policy advices on water supply technology not only in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions, including part of Dniproperty, when we considered this issue. Because, according to international standards, the work was done by both the MINREGION and the district government authorities on water supply and uncontrollable areas that we are still doing. There was a company called Leo. I'm reminding you of everything we've done in this case. The question that we have just asked is also very important in terms of assessing the quality of the manager and the performance parameters. I think we've consulted with Mr. Hennadi Zubko, we'll invite the relevant information, please give us a request, and we're on the same page, and we'll answer your questions straight through last week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u49	Thank you. Musei Oleg Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u50	Dear Stephen Ivanovich, I have a question for you as a member of the government. Do you think it's conceivable and normal when members of the government who are currently participating in the electoral race are using their administrative resources and their influence, not going on vacation, as provided for in Ukrainian legislation, in fact, writing the relevant statements, going through Ukraine and having tours of all sorts of people who are going to save Ukraine now? It's about, by the way, what you did. You've achieved that, for example, the terricone that burns, you've allocated 12 million bracelets of Stepna Ivanovich Kube, everyone knows about it in my district. So now the Minister of Ecology is driving and telling us how he's going to save the Lvivs, not you who saved this Lvivs. Please consider this a parliamentary appeal, a state of affairs for today, which of the acting ministers and deputy ministers has written statements in connection with their participation in the elections and the government that has taken the decision, and the Prime Minister for the discharge of their duties at the time of the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u51	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u52	This is to make it absolutely official information for today: who has already written the statements and who has gone on pre-election vacations to avoid using the administrative resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u53	First. I want to thank you for asking. Secondly, thank you for the assessment we made over the course of three years on Red Cross, Great Bridges, Sosnovka and, including, environmental issues. And we solved it, including some roads, and the miners' fund, along with Mr. Michael, who worked with us as a national MP, Bondar means. And the second question is whether they're gone, they're gone, but the government has to work. I want to tell you that even by e-mail, you can get some information about whether or not you're at work. With regard to the question of a person who goes on a field trip or takes part in a circuit visit, he should act in accordance with current legislation. You'll get that information, so please give us and we'll count your information as a request from a national MP, and accordingly you'll get an answer for each minister, for each member of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u54	Thank you. Opanasenko gave the word of Oleni Sotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u55	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I have a question for Mr. Kubov. The question is very simple, yet very difficult. Unfortunately, the government has never presented to us in all these years the work of its economic growth strategy for Ukraine, although the entire people of Ukraine expect at least 7-8 per cent of annual growth. But another problem is the world recession. Everyone's been talking about this for a long time. Obviously, in the next year or two, the world will be experiencing a serious economic downturn. It's now started with 4 percent, the World Bank actually recorded 3.2 percent of the growth rate of the world economy. The trade wars, the economic recession -- all of these risks -- they're definitely going to Ukraine. Please tell me, is the government preparing somehow for the global recession, or is the government preparing a plan to contain inflation, to contain currency decline? And do you understand what we will do if, for example, the economic crisis in the world begins in six months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u56	You know, first of all, you should have been when I was giving a 15-minute performance today, where certain positions were just motivated. Two: I don't know what kind of political power you're asking for right now, but these projections a year ago from your political power, to the best of luck, didn't come true about growth, about understanding and so on. And the third. We realize that today the formation of the macrostabilisation of the world's markets is not easy because global processes are influencing. And the decline in the economy on different continents, both American and European markets, is happening, including certain macro-indicators' influences on both economic and financial projections. Today, Ukraine clearly understands its responsibility: the government, the National Bank, the often-involved Financial Stability Council, and we have clearly presented and considered several times in the discussion of macro-indicators forecasting, corresponding to financial stability for 3 years. This was the first time. And within the risks you're talking about, that's really the right question. We've been looking at it, and we're constantly studying the impacts according to the statistics of the world level and the regionality that we have. So this is a question of an emergency plan, it's a question of managing gold stocks, shaping principles and policies on currency reserves, creating currency markets. But, fortunately, you are witnessing that the political turbulence of the elections over the past six months does not affect the currency market, that is, the actions and the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, the National Bank of Ukraine meet those rules that now support stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u57	Thank you. Kishkar Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u58	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine Please refer to the largest advocate of Ukrainian statehood at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Borislav Berezi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u59	I thank Mr. Paul Kishkar for the opportunity to ask representatives of the government. Mr. Kubi, last time, Mr. Kubi, the last time we spoke to you here in the session room, you said that the question of the game business was very important and I'll have an answer by Wednesday before the Cabinet takes place. The question is that it is impossible to close down the gambling business that has flooded the streets of Ukraine. And you said you'd tell me what to do, because this is hampered by a letter from Minfin that needs to be answered and ended by the rape of Ukraine. I still haven't received an answer from you. You're all silent. But yesterday, I heard from the President of Ukraine that he was ready to deal with the issue. So I want to hear one answer for you. You've already left that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u60	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u61	You left that question to him, whatever the hell, let someone else decide whether or not you're going to answer me when you take this letter from Minfin, which allows casinos to work on the streets of Kiev, illegal casinos, but thanks to your letter, it's possible. And it prevents law enforcement from closing these parlors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u62	Your Honor, I mean, what you're saying is good, but what we're silent about doesn't mean we're not working. And when we were talking here with you, you want to come up and I'll show you right now, we had a meeting with the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance, I've listened to you very carefully, where the legal field of the Law on State Lottery, Monopoly and the prohibition of the gaming business is clearly defined today, where 80 percent of all lottery stakes are on the lotteries, similar to those prohibited by law. Today, I want to tell you, there's a purely game addiction -- gambling -- and there's a set of positions for lotteries as a whole, their studies. At the same time, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and I held a second meeting, where there are some major problems in the regulation of lotteries that I also want to answer. So we got exactly in 10 days three fundamental expert advices that today identified the problem, the risks, the basic legislation and its changes. I'm willing to give you this to look at. And you'll get the request on Monday. There's all the documents. Come here, I'll show you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u63	Thank you. Three minutes left. I'd like to warn you that I'll give you another word. Okay. I hope so. Kugel and Sukhevich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Three minutes, we can't make it, Alexander. I know, I know. But we just can't really make it. There are, you see, thoughts are alternate in the room. So, no, I'm not going on, of course. But in three minutes, in fact, only one person can make it. I'm giving another man Shuhevich, but I can't afford any more. Please, Kugel gives Rybka a word for a question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u64	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Questions about tariffs and the natural gas market. Dear government, I understand there is no heating season now, which is hot, hot, climate change. And you don't think about how the country is going to get into this hot season. And if you analyze it, the gas issue is broken. And Ukrainians won't get any more cheap Ukrainian gas. The tariff issue is not reduced. Now that prices are low in the European market, Ukrainians still pay high tariffs. And that's the fact that we've got Ukrattransgaz on the upheaval because of billions of debts. They have 2.3 billion dollars of debt, they don't pay their counterparties. And it looks like a company's artificial bankruptcy and preparations for possible privatization, including our gas transport system. Please tell me, what does the government do to make the Ukrainians normally enter the heating season, pay normal, adequate tariffs and consume their own Ukrainian gas? And what do we have with Cruscarngas, which is now bankrupt and talking about Naftogazu's defolut state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u65	This is a very important question. Price policy and shaping, and preparing for the heating season of the 19th and 20th years, that's a priority. This priority for the heating season was presented at the government’s working meeting and presented the concept of what steps we will take. With regard to the extraction and extraction plan, the appropriate program and the corresponding minister are also approved. We'll take that as your request. And so we will have the opportunity to communicate with each other, and on a live basis, when the Supreme Council meets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u66	Thank you. Szuhevich gives the floor to Oksani Korczynski. Please, Mrs. Oksana. And given the democratic processes in the Council, then the word of Doubenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u67	Good afternoon! Mr. Head, two minutes, please. I'm calling the Ministry of Defense. Dear Ivan Stepanovich, please tell us what the Ministry of Defence and General Staff were thinking when they now ordered the reduction of more than a thousand medical positions in military hospitals that have received more than 12,000 wounded in five years? We get hurt every day, we get injured every day. You're going to reduce a thousand medical positions in military hospitals in favor of the rear. Please tell me, do you understand that this will close the only facility in Irpine for amputants, the only rehabilitation center for neuro-managed people, our only sanatoriums that accept our military personnel? Now you're going to shorten the best people, the best military doctors and nurses in our country. During the war, I remind you that in five years no additional military personnel were assigned.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u68	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u69	Thank you. You're about to ruin our ability to rescue the military in Ukraine. I'm asking for an explanation. Because such a fact cannot occur in a country that protects its country daily and when our defenders are killed and injured daily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u70	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u71	Thank you for asking, Mrs. Oksana. Well, first of all, I'd like you to make us an official request, and we'll give you complete information about the arrangements that are being carried out, including in the health care system. And now that I've got an hour of questions to the government, I'm going to come to the Ministry of Defense, I'm going to get full information and I'm going to call you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u72	Thank you. And the final question is Dudenkov Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u73	Thank you. Alexander Doubenkov, Opposition Block. Dear Stéphane Ivanovich, I am addressing you with a violent problem that concerns people. The first problem is, of course, the question of peace, which is always the object of the opposition block. But the second problem that concerns, in particular the government, is the debt that was catastrophic, which was formed in 2019, already over 62 billion dollars, the debt for housing and utilities. In particular, more than 50 percent of this debt is for consumed gas, natural gas, and tariffs that are insurmountable to humans. The Opposition Block calls for the establishment and implementation of mechanisms for the restructuring or write-off of this debt to people. Because you can see that every year it increases. Since 2018, it has been increased by more than 20 billion dollars annually. Such a pace will lead us to have a single debt budget. What steps are you taking? And are you going to cheat as we recommend?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u74	First question about peace. I think every person in this room and every person in this room needs peace. And that's the most important thing. That's the first one. The other one. Regarding the question that was asked about the debt of utilities and about the calculations of this figure that you called. I'm asking you to form a query, and by every number, you have to answer the number, respectively, over the years you've called. You'll get the right answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u75	So, colleagues, "the hour of questions to the government" is over. Now the summary word is Stepan of Cuba, two minutes. And let's move on to the question-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you both for today's conversation, and not just in the hall, but the one we're talking about at the committee level. And I have once again the great request of those two weeks of meetings that are yet to pass. We are very much needed to raise and develop, to stimulate economic development in Ukraine, to form a base of adequate protection for the possible crises that are taking place throughout the global economic space. This is the concession bill (8125), which reformes the scope of concessional legislation and allows investors, infrastructure, such as Internet building, roads, and innovation. And that's very important. The second bill on stimulating investment (8124), I was talking about a rating on business ease. And 4650 on the easing of the pressure of control authorities on business. And do the debt to the miners. Some disagreements were also identified in the field of agrarian science. We must correct this obligation, which was created by political recommendations. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u77	Heroic glory! Thank the government for participating in the meeting, for the discussion. And "the hour of questions to the government" is over. You've been successful at working for the state, for the country. And now we're going to read the MP's questions. And I give the floor to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oksani Siroid. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u78	Thank you. 161 requests were received from the national deputies. Viktor Razwadowski to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the provision of material assistance to the inhabitants of the village of Lake Zitomir district, the Zitomir region of Svetlana, for the conduct of the heart surgery. Viktor Razwadowski to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the provision of material assistance to the inhabitants of a townlike village called Johnopil Wonderland, the Zitomir district of Lydia the Keeper for the treatment of her cancerous son. Vitalia Cupria to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the first Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the head of the Directorate-General for Combating Corruption and Organized Crime of the Central Security Service of Ukraine, for the removal of personal sanctions from Alexia Ananiev and Dmitri Ananieva. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of adult and child welfare with profound loss of hearing by cochlear implants. Anatoly of Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on taking the necessary measures to speed up the capital repair of the R-51 Meref-Paulgrad regional road. Boris Tarasyuk to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal assignment of higher diplomatic rank to the Ukrainian National Deputies. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Deputy Head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the violation of the constitutional rights of citizens in the Poltava region, with restrictions on their access to the forest area, transferred to the PAF Podolaka lease under hunting conditions, and its fences. Irina Lucenko to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine for the clarification of technical regulation of medical products. Mikoli Kadikala to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Kyivo-Svetoshin Local Prosecutor's Office, Prosecutor of the Kyiv District, on the use of urgent measures to respond to and investigate the illegal activities of the State registry and officials of the Fund to guarantee the contributions of natural persons that led to the illegal occupation of the land. Mikoli Kadikala to the Public Shareholders' Association Bank Cambio, the director of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Natural Persons, the head of the Executive Board of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Contributions of Natural Persons, the head of the secretariat of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Financial Policy and Banking, on the use of urgent measures to respond to the actions of officials of the Fund for Guarantee of Investments and the State Register, which led to illegal possession of land. Andrija Nemirowski to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine regarding the situation in the area of the Novovolas region of Kharkiv. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to raise salaries for preschool workers. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the immediate resolution of the emergency situation of Ukrainian highways. Sergey Rybalka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to secure payment of the debt on salary to the employees of the State Enterprise "First Handicraft" and the Public Shareholder Society "Lisichanskwugil". Valery Pisarenko to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine to remove obstacles to the full functioning of the PayPal international payment system in Ukraine. Valery Pisarenko to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the enforcement of the Constitutional Court’s decision on the appointment of a retirement pension to teachers, doctors, social workers and others. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the involvement of local and foreign professionals to study the state of Olean and Podgorica Castles of Lvivščina, and foresight of funds for restoration work. Mikhail Bondar to the head of the Ukrainian Railway Company's government to arrange for a pedestrian crossing through railway lines at the railway station in the city of Radehov Lviv district. Igor Shurma to the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, head of the Directorate General for Combating Corruption and Organized Crime of the Central Security Service of Ukraine, for the deliberate concealment by officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine of information to the national deputy regarding the operation of the operational headquarters to respond to the situation of spreading bark. Igora Shurma to the first deputy head of the Ukrainian National Security Service, Chief of Administration for Combating Corruption and Organized Crime of the Central Security Service of Ukraine, head of the National Police, Attorney General of Ukraine, for drawing officials of the Government of Ukraine to responsibility in part of intentional failure and concealing the requested information regarding the transfer of property from the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to the area of Maintenance. Jacob Besbach to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of funding for a medical institution. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on increasing health problems and reducing access to health care for citizens. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the environmental threat of using the Novograd-Wallin Solid Waste Field, taking urgent measures to prevent it and to hold officials accountable. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, President of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District State Administration for an emergency cardiological operation to replace the heart valve for budgetary costs. Dmitry Sphenov, head of the National Commission for State regulation in the fields of energy and public services regarding the use of measures in connection with the failure of Pat "Dnipropetrovskgas" to implement the NCRECR Decision and to take into account domestic consumers the coefficient of correction of gas counters. Arthur Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing capital repairs to the Dnipro-West Donbas. Artura Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine on issues of preparation for the new heating season. Vitalia Gudzenka to the temporary duty of head of the Kyiv District State Administration to allocate funds for the capital repair of roads and the reconstruction of street lighting in the Tarostian and Bilocerk district of the Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association "Krupposta" for the inadmissibility of reducing the post offices in the rural area of Bilocerkovsky, Volodarski, Stavishtenski, Tarostian, Tetiyevski, Skirski district of the Kyiv region. Alexander Guerrega to the finance minister of Ukraine on the need to clarify the regulations governing the licensing of fuel storage. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the approval of the Procedure for overturning the decision of a specialised scientific council on the award of scientific degrees. Romana Macola to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations in order to provide clarifications to the Education Authority of the Executive Committee of Slavutsk City for debt for the use of jet energy, to send warnings about the total or partial supply of electricity, as well as other issues. Romana Macola to the responsibilities of the Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Road Service in the Hmelnicke District, on the unsatisfying state of road coverage on the section of the public road of the state importance of R-49 Vaskovici - Novograd-Wolinski - Shepetevka. Igor Goose to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for repairs, on the basis of a “ministerial experiment” (or other sources of financing) of road sections of the territorial value T-03-02 and T-03-05 (Volinsk Region). Igor Goose to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the issue of the absence of forms for the issue of certificates for a child from a multi - child family. Edward Matviychuk to the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection, Odessa City Council on the review of the re-examination of the interests of the residents of Odessa's ODSB "Juria Olesi 1/3" on a comprehensive solution to the water supply issue and on the audit of the repairs that have resulted in a deterioration in the unsatisfactory state of the water supply system. Eduard Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine for Food Safety and Consumer Protection, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Lviv District Public Administration, the Lviv City Council on the review of the appeal by Eduard Sinyagowski concerning the examination of the facts, the comprehensive protection of the rights of consumers of medical services and the observance of the standards of effective legislation. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of junior medical personnel and the reduction of the salaries of health workers in the field-obstetric centres. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the chemical pollution of small rivers in Ukraine and the flow of chemicals into the Ross River. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the update of fire rescue and special technology. Helen Sotnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the resignation of the Chief of the National Police in the Kyiv region of Dmitra Czenov. Helen Sotnik to the head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee for Information on the receipt by Taras Kozak of the permission of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee for the acquisition of the TV channel ZIC. Vadim Krivohatka to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on possible official falsification by the leadership of the State Enterprise Science Research and Project Institute of the Land Administration. Vadim Krivohatka to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for the possible abuse of office and forgeries by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine. Jacob Besbach to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Public Society of Ukraine, the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, the State Road Agency of Ukraine, the Public Shareholders Association of Kyivoblanergo, the Biohrodska Rural Council of Kiev-Svetoshin region of Kiev, the Kyiv City Public Administration, the Kyiv District Public Administration, the Mikolai District Council on the need for effective measures to provide adequate housing and utility services in various regions of Ukraine. Igora Lucenka to the Chief of Roads in Volinsk, temporarily acting as Head of the Volin District State Administration for information on the results of quality monitoring and the current state of road coverage in the areas of Demidivski, Dubenski, Zdolbunowski, Milinowski, Radivilski, and Dubno. Roman Semenha to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for the Investigation of Possible Crimes of the Former Head of Kharkiv District Administration, Igor Rainin, reported by Dmitr Krüchk in an interview published by the Censor Internet Portal. Igor Pober to the Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine on material and technical problems in the children's sports school, the biathlon base of the village will be set on fire in Ternopolska. Oleg Petrenko to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the provision of information on the numerical composition of the coalition of the European Ukraine MPs. Igora Lucenka to the head of the National Memory Institute, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for providing a copy of the letter on the completion by the Attorney General of the necessary investigations (investigative) into the pretrial investigations of crimes committed with regard to the activists of the Dignity Revolution. Paul Kishkar to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the prosecution authorities in investigating criminal conduct in relation to the crime against Borodawkin P.V. Paul Kishkar to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the testimony of the private notary of Kharkiv City Notarial District by Angel Degthar of fictitious crimes. Groups of National Deputies (Peterovka, Lunchenko, Gorvata) to the executive duties of the Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds for the construction of the N-09 road. Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the construction of a garbage factory near TEC-6 in the right-wing district of Kiev. Andrea Illenka to the deputy head of the National Police of Ukraine, head of the National Police Department in Kiev, acting as Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, director of the Department of City Welfare of the Kiev City State Administration for the dismantling of temporary buildings at Kibalčić Street, 11a and 11b in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Mikhail Golka to the head of the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection on the situation of excess emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere of the city of Zbarz Ternopil district. Mikhail Golka is to serve as head of the Ternopil district administration for the repair of the Podvolocchi village cultural building of the Podvolocchi district of Ternopil. Ruslan Solvar to the head of the Fastov District State Administration, the head of the Fastov District Council to stop the process of restructuring the Pilopian Educational and Educational Complex. "
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u79	You have headphones. ...reorganization of the Pilipiwak village of the Fastov region of Kiev. Ruslan Solvar to the temporary duty of head of the Kyiv District State Administration to resolve the question of road repair: Bishov - Makarov - Fenevitch, Bishov - Big Karashin through Kozichanka, Georgia, Jurov - Great Karashin (in Brussels). Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate development and approval of the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the implementation of the provisions of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Anatomic Material Transplantation to Man. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent use of measures to ensure that citizens suffering from rare (orphan) diseases are provided with treatments, medical supplies and adequate food for special diets. Victor Vuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-ensure of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine's proper functioning of the authorities of the State Executive Service and the Disciplinary Commission of Private Executives, which violates the constitutional rights, freedoms and interests of Ukrainian citizens. Jury Pavlenko to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for information on cases of child trafficking. Jurija Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the mass closure of schools and on the non-encouragement of the united territorial communities of the Žitomir region. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-requirement of small-scale schools and the provision of conditions for timely and full pay to teachers of general secondary education, including during annual vacations, in particular by approaching the costs of educational subsidies for the current months of 2019. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Statistics Service of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for information on the number of closed public educational institutions and the number of schools that are at risk of being closed for the current academic year 2018/2019. Sergey Leschchenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for enhancing the safety of 257 students in the school. Sergija Lešchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on construction and/or preparatory work at the Woznesenski voszow, 28-30 in the Podilski district of Kiev. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the State Service of Ukraine from an extraordinary situation, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine for the use of environmental disaster prevention measures. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Raven City Head, for the control of the allocation and use of budgetary subsidies. Jurya Derevjanka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the results of the implementation of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine on the emergency situation and the Public Administration of the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on the processing of the issue of the allocation of funds from the State budget reserve fund to deal with the consequences of the extraordinary situation that occurred during April-May 19th in the territory of Ivano-Frankov Region and on the classification of the level of the emergency. Jury Devyanka to the head of the State Water Agency to provide information on the outcome of the review by the State Water Agency of Ukraine of the technical documentation kit for the recovery of damaged water dams and shores in the Ivano-Frankiv region during April 19th, submitted by the Dniestr Basin Management of Water Resources. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine, on the need to account for 25 per cent of the salaries (tariff rates) of employees of institutions and organizations located in the mountainous areas when calculating the wages of such workers to ensure its minimum size. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Lviv District State Administration for the need to carry out capital repairs of the road to the general use of the local value of Slavskie-Oporec in the Skoliv region of Lviv. Alexander Dombrovski to the Head of the Ukrainian National Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Information and Information Service of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the establishment of persons involved in mass-disgusting reports on the replacement of Ukraine's socio-economic infrastructure and the possible increase of criminal responsibility for such reports. Sergio Rudika to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the implementation in 2019 of conservation measures in the areas of municipal property of Kamyansk, Smiljansk and Cherkas region of the Cherkas region. Sergey Rudika to the director of the State Enterprise "The Service of Local Roads in the Cherkas region", performing the duty of Smilan City Head to break down the work from the current mid-level repair of Soborna Street in Smil of the Cherkas region. Alexander Kirsza to the Kharkiv City Head for the capital repair of the inner-quarter roads near the residential building on Valentiniska Street, 21-B in Kharkiv. Groups of National Deputies (Korczynski, Markevich and others) Total 12 deputies) to the Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, for the provision of information on the compilation by the Ministry of Defence of the Ukrainian Military Pharmacy Agency for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the work of the Peacebuilding Geriatric Home to be impeded. Anatoly of Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on imports into Ukraine of wagons from the Russian Federation. Olga Cervakovy and Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the indebtedness of the Social Insurance Fund to insurers and systemic problems in the activities of the Ukrainian Social Insurance Fund. Sergey Vlasenka to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for the investigation of the actions of the ex-President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenka, who have signs of criminal punishment. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the approval of the Salaries Scheme (the wage rate) of teaching and teaching staff of public and municipal education institutions. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine in support of the beekeeping sector in Ukraine, as well as to protect her from the negative impact of the use of poisons in agriculture. Jury Lewchenka to the Head of the Court of Cassation in the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of delaying the trial of an illegal plot on the street of Polovatsky, 4 in the Shevchenkov district of Kiev, which makes it impossible to enforce the court’s decision and protect the rights and interests of local residents. Jurija Levchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the introduction to the Constitution of Ukrainian legislation recognized by the unconstitutional decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine No.2-r/2019 of 4 June 2019 on the recognition of non-constitutional provisions of article 54a, article 55 of the Pension Insurance Act of 5 November 1991 No. 1788-XI. Jury Miroshnicka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the appeal of the public organization "Centre for Combating Corruption in Kiev" to close the solid household waste range No. 5 in the village of Podgorka. Oksana Korczynski to Chief of General Staff - Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the Cancellation of the Order of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine No. 90 of 4 March 2019 "On the transition of military units (institutions, institutions) The Ukrainian Armed Forces on the food supply system using the food catalog in 2019." We finished reading the queries. We also have a number of appeals from national deputies who are dissatisfied with the outcome of their consideration of their appeals. I invite you to the speech of the national deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u80	Dear citizens of Ukraine! In due time, decisions were made to eliminate the sanitation agencies. This has resulted in very sad consequences. We're looking at the number of negative phenomena, including those that lead to death, but that's a different question. Today, everyone who tries to represent himself as a fighter of corruption. Corruption is one thing. And here, with the reorganization of this service, are the facts and elements of petty theft. That's what it's all about. After decommissioning the services, we need to understand that all the facilities where the sanitation service was once located, which is usually the areas in the central area of the district centers and district centers, should have been transferred to that structure that is now serving the functions of the sanepidized organs, and I, if I say more specifically, the Maintenance Service. I asked the government: what are the premises that have been transferred, in fact, what happened to the property, because in our country, everything that lies a little bit wrong is just a matter of self-absorbing. In accordance with Prime Minister Groisman's mandate, it was entrusted with the task of processing and informing them accordingly. The Ministry of Health asked the question. I got the answer that by order of the MOH in the 18th year, it was because the service was eliminated much faster and the final decision of the court was in the 17th year, that a working group was formed to prepare proposals for the transfer to the management of the material and technical base. However, the MOH refused to accept the transfer of real estate. A working group to prepare proposals was created in May 18th. The MoH did not even submit a draft of the relevant documents for approval by the State Property Fund. The result of criminal acts, and they cannot be called otherwise, and the inactivity of the officials of the ILO, as well as the sabotage of the government’s mandates, has not even been established in time and has not been ensured by the transfer of the relevant authorities. No one is going to do that at all today, because one deputy wrote an application and goes to the polls, the other deputy wrote an application waiting for release. The decision of the Sixth Court of Appeal indicated that the actions of the so - called Minister Suprun is ineligible, all of his actions were unlawful to the new government decree, and once again the visa is there. I'm talking to the government. Provide order in the transfer of property and eliminate the potential for corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u81	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u82	The theft of a material and technical base that once belonged to the authorities of sanitation. The unprofessional activities and inactions of the Ministry of Health once again show that such people are not able to hold managerial positions in the state in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u83	I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oxana Korchinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u84	Praise be to Jesus Christ. I'm calling again to the Secretary of Defense, the Chief of General Staff. I insist with all the deputies that we now have 17 national deputies who signed this petition, to change Order No. 90 from 04.03. On the 19th year, a very noble thing to do about the transition of the military to the food supply system of the catalogue. No doubt they need to be changed. But by order of the military hospitals, by changing, you entered headquarters and transferred more than a thousand full - time medical staff to the rear. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff, I remind you that in our country where the war is fought for five years, where thousands of wounded, we have with you the state of our military hospitals in peacetime. So at three times their load, the state hasn't changed since the beginning of the war. We were forced to help build rehabilitation centers and organize, for our volunteers, a rehabilitation center in Irpen for the amputants of our boys who lost limbs. Lviv volunteers and diaspora helped organize the only neurocenter in Lviv. Now all these centers are in danger of being shut down. Although we do need five other rehabilitation centers. Only because of the illiteracy order. You want to put them in the back for the reform of the dining rooms. It's impossible to do it the way you thought it would. This will destroy the evacuation system and provide medical assistance to military personnel. I am urgently asking you to change this order now and to issue, in this case there is a regular schedule that you can change by radio, since it has long been inactive in the military. You have the ability, at headquarters, to change. On the contrary, we request additional positions for military psychologists. We now have mass psychologists freeing themselves from military hospitals because they are civilian workers, and this salary is 3,200 when they charge 11 psychologists a thousand military personnel. We need positions to help our soldiers, our commanders during the war and after the war. And we're taking a thousand jobs from you right now, from the military. I'm asking you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u85	30 seconds to complete. Yeah? Okay. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Leschchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u86	Respectable kyans, respected citizens of Ukraine! Every Friday I go to this rostrum to talk about the steps I take to protect the interests of the citizens, the Chinese, the inhabitants of all parts of Ukraine, when we all face the challenge of being violent, ignoring human rights, ignoring the fundamental right of citizens to live in a civilized world. And today I'm going to talk briefly about the final appeal, which is an example of the Kyiv authorities ignoring the right to preschool education of our Chinese. Such examples are found all over Kiev. In particular, this incident, which I am about to hear, relates to the street. Yes, this is true of the preschool education facility in connection with which we referred to the Poznaki in the Darnicki district of Kiev. The appeal was about the fact that the city authorities do not transfer a children’s children’s home to municipal property in the fourth microregion of Poznak, instead of creating a private nursery. This is totally unacceptable. This is a completely different example of how, for money that was to be invested in a communal garden, a private garden would be built, where it would cost thousands of dollars a month for Ukrainian china preschools. While this garden was built as an investor’s obligation to build a residential microregion in this place. But not only do we have such examples on the Lates, we have all over Kiev, and not only do we have children's gardens. In particular, yesterday I held another MP's reception at Vynogradar, on the Bridge Massive, with this reception. We all have one problem: these are non-working elevators in housing. But I don't know if they would include the broadcast of our Parliament somewhere in Europe, in America, in Germany, and if the citizens of these countries knew that the MEPs of the European country from the rostrum of Parliament were to ask the authorities in the capital to solve the basic issue of non-working elevators in multi-story buildings. What would they have thought about Ukraine in the first place? How long can this take? Especially in the housing fund, which is 30-40 years old, where there are mostly pensioners, where people with disabilities live, who can't go out when the elevator doesn't work, when the elevators don't work for months and years. In particular, in Mosticsky, 10 houses face such a problem all the time. Yesterday in Parliament, I received a group of city dwellers from the Bridge Mass, who demanded that the city authorities address the issue. Similarly, the Truth Prospect met with voters yesterday, and the elevators don't work the same way for six months. You know, the elevator, it's like a new public transport in us, a new kind of public transport in Kiev, when we get up from the first floor to the eighteenth and when people don't have the basic ability to do it. And that's why it's in its own hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u87	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u88	Thank you very much. So in my speech, I appeal to the authority of the city of Kiev. Don't lead people to total, I don't even know, despair as young people with kindergartens and schools in the masses, and older people with non-working elevators in the areas of the 70s to 80s, so-called Czech projects that need to be brought into order immediately, and the elevators have to work in every Ukrainian multi-story building to make Ukrainian citizens feel really European. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u89	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u90	Europeans are not without carts, they are working elevators in a multi-story building. And I'm asking Mayor Call to take personal measures to respond to this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u91	Dear national deputies, we have in principle completed both reading the parliamentary requests and listening to those who are dissatisfied with the answer. And using my right, I'm going to announce a 15-minute break, then we're going to have another half-hour break, 12:30, and we're going to go back to have a discussion at the Miscellaneous. I'll see you at 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. I'm asking you to prepare for the recording so that we can have a discussion at the Miscellaneous. Please hold the recording. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u93	Thank you. Captain Olena. I want to raise today the question that they were trying to discuss at the government meeting, at the "hour of questions to the government," which, by the way, turned into propaganda again. I have to say that in four and a half years of work in this Parliament, I haven't heard from our government, unfortunately, any complete answer to the questions of the national MPs. So when you see on television that some national MPs say that there are no national deputies here on Friday, there is no point in being here, because the government actually answers our questions, either openly lies to the eyes, or does not provide specific answers. This is the same story I had today. I asked a very specific and serious question. The world is stagnating, the world's economies are falling, there's now a trade war between the United States of America and China. We're seeing a crisis in Iran. We're seeing a crisis in Venezuela. We realize that virtually everyone, especially raw markets, will be shaking as soon as possible. I am asking a direct question to Cuba, the Minister of Economics, which is what Ukraine's plan in view of the fact that the world's economy is going to fall, which is obviously going to be an economic recession, Ukraine is absolutely at risk, including because we remain in most of its raw country. What does that mean? If the world economy starts to fall, if prices in raw markets start to drop, in fact they're going to suffer from the currency rate, and then the $50 dollar for people is going to be a completely obvious and key threat, there's going to be a serious increase in inflation. And I'm told by the Minister of Economics that they've been analyzing numbers for a year. So they're analyzing the numbers, but they're not planning in any way on how Ukraine is going to get out of the crisis. I'm already saying that over the past 3.5 years, the government has not presented the economic development strategy of the state, which our economic sectors are the top priority, what we're working with, what we're working with, what we're doing with the lack of personnel, what we're doing with the outflow of highly professional people and young people, who are going from Ukraine, which is the key labour potential of this state. None of this has been presented. So I have to say that this government, unfortunately, has neither the understanding nor the vision of the challenges facing Ukraine today, neither the internal nor the external. And unfortunately, this situation can lead to the fact that even if there is a reintroduction of power, Ukraine will in fact not be ready for the future world economic crisis, which is accurately predicted, Ukraine does not have that plan. And the first thing that the new political forces and the new government have to do is form an economic strategy for the state and form a concrete plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u94	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u95	Form a concrete plan for a way out of the economic crisis in the event of a world stagnation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u96	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u97	Andrew Illenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Kiev, 215 constituency. Dear Ukrainians, the honorable squires! I'd like to turn to this rostrum today and talk about the issue that many people in Kiev are concerned about today, especially the inhabitants of the Right District, especially the people of Troy, where my constituency is actually located, which is the possibility of building a garbage fire plant right there, near the Trinity, directly on this masseuse. This is a question that causes a categorical rejection of people in the local community. This is a question that offends the inhabitants of the Trinity, because this is a question that can lead to the catastrophic deterioration of the environmental and social situation in this area if this garbage plant is built. And we've been hearing these very ambiguous statements lately from city officials, from different officials who initially said it was going to be a construction, and then they said it wasn't a garbage burning plant, it was a garbage processing plant. Then they began to say that when they saw the indignation of the people, that they were not planning to build it at all, and so forth. But according to our information, they haven't completely abandoned these plans, they're just looking at how hard people's reaction is going to be. And I'm talking to these sad officials right now. Don't test this reaction, believe me, if you think about it and think about it, the reaction will be very hard, and we guarantee it. We're not going to let you turn Trinity into a dumpster. We will not let you destroy the opportunity for a normal life. I understand there's a garbage problem and it's a global problem. I realize that it should be decided, but it is not at the expense of the Trinity, not at the expense of the Righteous region, not at the expense of people’s lives, their health, and their comfort. We're responsibly claiming that this is the position of our team of Freedoms, we're not going to allow this construction. I can turn to the inhabitants of the Trinity, to the entire community, we will do everything we can to ensure that this building is not built to protect your interests. If we call on you, too, to support the community so that officials can finally hear us and realize that we must not ignore the desires and attitudes of people, their health, their lives. So I'm convinced that together we're not going to allow this building to happen, that there's not going to be this wastebasket factory in Troas. And for the future, I'm going to suggest to those officials that have these ideas, 10 times before you think about how to sound things like that, so that you're upsetting society, and you're going to provoke just conflict situations. Please think very carefully before such things are planned and spoken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u98	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Golovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u99	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Dear friends, I keep meeting with my constituents, and this is the Kremenacki, Shumsky, Lanewicki, Zbarazki, Podvolocchii district of Ternopil. And people ask me all the time, and the key questions that concern me most of all are the support of young families, the payment of their payment at birth. Unfortunately, the government of Groysman has invented instead of spending money so that people can get the necessary things for children, they give them baby boxing, boxes of these. Of course, it's cynicism and bravado, because the quality of this product is debilitating. It's the washing of tens of billions, hundreds of billions of dollars from the government budget. Of course, everyone could think rationally about how to spend the money -- unfortunately, they have to take those boxes that are basically useless. So Freedom offered to get out of that situation. And we've registered a bill that would provide for an increase in the child's payment at birth to 120,000 dollars, as well as support for young families. And the main thing is, they have available loans, that's if three children, if 50 percent of the state has to cover it. If five children are in the family, it is a free home at all. It's supposed to be social protection for young families, because children are the future, it's the future of the nation, it's our capital, it's our core resource. If there are no children, there will be no future of Ukraine. The next issue that concerns those people most is a decent pension. Because today pensioners, they're beyond poverty, they can't pay for utilities. And you know that the debt for utilities is increasing, and today it's almost 80 billion dollars because of these unfortunate tariffs, thanks to the actions of Kobolev and other hard-working officials. That is why pensioners today are unable to obtain drugs or to live worthily, and they are complaining about this pension reform. Regrettably, the amendments made by Freedom didn't count. And today the government does not index pensions, and they are obliged to index pensions every year every two years. And unfortunately, that didn't happen, and today the minimum pension would be more than three thousand dollars, but it's not. And that's why Freedom has registered a bill that predicts that pensions should not be the size of a salary, but rather a person's internship. If Grandma has worked in a farm all her life, 40 years, and today she's got a thousand and a half dollars of retirement, that's bullying. Of course, no one can live with that kind of money today. That's why Freedom offered to do it. We have to adopt a law that would give our pensionable pensioners a comparison of their retirement to their work, which is to increase the rate. Sadly, today the authorities have compared to 1 percent. We proposed and 1.4 is 40 percent increase in pensions for our pensioners. And so these are the just requirements that we demand. And, of course, unfortunately, this Parliament is no longer committed to passing those laws, it is not able to adopt those decisions, so we understand that in the next Parliament there must be a large fraction of nationalists who will get social justice, in the end, in Ukraine, so that our children have a decent future, and pensioners are worthy of old age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u100	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u101	Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine, Mikhailo Papiev, "The Opposition Platform for Life". The decision of the Constitutional Court made it clear and clear that the decree of the President of Ukraine concerning the dissolution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the appointment of successive elections was constitutional. That's why I welcome Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainian citizens, with elections to be held, where the active authorities can be expected to point their finger at the door, there will be those Ukrainian national deputies who use the trust of people who, in accordance with article 5 of the Ukrainian Constitution, will be given their powers as the only source of power in Ukraine. And there will be representatives of the Ukrainian people who, I believe, will care more about people than the composition of the Supreme Council that is today. And we can expect from the trend that 70 percent of the Ukrainian people's deputies will be the new Ukrainian national deputies who I think will contribute positively to the development of our country. But what remains the functioning Supreme Council of Ukraine, which leaves its successors? The Supreme Council of Ukraine does not have rules, or regulations, that would be in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. To date, the reform under the care of the Fifth Cox Commission of the European Union for the money of European taxpayers, Mr. Peruby, has failed. And we're going to have to ask where that money went. We did not pass the Ukrainian Law on the distribution of committees of the Supreme Council, the D’Ondt principle. In fact, the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine sabotages the start of a new composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And instead of immediately adopting Bill 5122, this is a new edition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, instead of adopting the laws of Ukraine relating to the coalition and settling these issues and the opposition, they are considering the Electoral Code, which will not be considered before the elections. There's sabotage. I remind everyone there are eight plenary days left of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it's a matter of morality and conscience. This is exactly the dangerous time when this is going on. You see, during this transition of power from one formation to another, they already want to steal the gas transport system, and we can stay with the fact that it is in the new composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the current authorities, along with the leadership of the NAC of Naftogaz Ukraine, want to steal Ukraine's oil and gas system, which costs more than 100 billion euros. Now even in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, they want to steal a table. I'm not talking about what's going on at the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u102	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u103	I would very much ask the Ukrainian National Deputies, although you are already, in fact, formerly in status and will not be reinstated by the new status of Ukrainian National Deputies, but keep your conscience and conscience, and work with the Ukrainian National Deputies for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens, at least not to let them steal what is left. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u104	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u105	Ivan Sporish, Winnitzkin, 15th district. Of course, the Constitutional Court, as the previous speaker had just said, decided that the President's decree was constitutional. And that's good. And it's good that the people of Ukraine will, after all, choose a new parliament. And it is good that the people of Ukraine will understand that there is no bribe from those who submitted to the Constitutional Court. And I think that's really fair. But, after all, the Supreme Council of ours, no matter who speaks, has really worked productively. How could we not say that we didn't speak for this Supreme Council, but it would, in fact, go with the best bills, the best laws passed. Most reform laws that have been passed. And that's good too. Although our Supreme Council is disciplined, we see that it is not. And perhaps they should decide, it is again the people of Ukraine who will choose a new parliament. Well, thank God that although our Parliament, compared to the Parliament of Georgia, would never have allowed the House to speak and, as we heard yesterday, the parliamentarians of the Russian State wanted or had already begun to speak in the Parliament of Georgia. And we see what the opposition of Georgia's European parties is. We see that the people of Georgia have risen. And really, that's fair, and we have to. And we have to support that. Because we don't have the right today to have Russia, which today has the influence that has taken over, all the more so, Ossetia and Abkhazia there, in Georgia, and today it has to bring its own, as they say, furniture and so forth into the Georgian Parliament and dictate some of its laws. I think that thank God that we have a parliament that would never come to this and that is good. But I'll say it's not without the participation of our national deputies. And I also wanted to say today that, after all, the Council of the European Union today continued the Crimean sanctions for 1 year against Russia. I'm not going to say that there's a lot of action there and opportunities for Russia, they're small. But it's still good that these sanctions are. And the whole world sees a country that today violates everything that can be said to be on a global scale. And I think our national MPs, who represented our country and others in the European Union, and they deserved to be thanked by all of us, because they're also mostly, if they weren't, they probably wouldn't be. And I think these sanctions that we have today are what. against Russia, which has taken over part of Lugansk, Donetsk, today, should also be extended and probably for many years. And the faster I want it to be, the more we can do everything we can to get us out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u106	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u107	I think, and many other issues we should still have in our parliament, what we raised, what we're going to raise, everyone who goes into the new parliament would very much like to see a lot of new faces, very much want those who go into parliament not to make those mistakes and learn from our mistakes, and step on those same rakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u108	I invite you to speak to the people’s representative, Derevyanka. Please prepare to show the slides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Yuri Derevyanco, political party of Will, 87 majority district. You know that in Western Ukraine two months ago, rainstorms continue, and the first rainstorms took place about two months ago, causing enormous damage, two people died, one woman died because the ambulance could not pass through a ruined road. But the government hasn't done anything for almost two months. I want you on these slides. I wanted to show this to the government that was here today, but I was written down later. This is what happened on one of the roadways between the battle stations and the Pans, the flood destroyed the road. And the government writes two months' notes, says that the State Department of Emergency Situations has no legal basis to view the situation as an emergency. So this situation, this city, it's all ruined, it's impossible to pass through people, more than 5,000 to 7,000 Ukrainian citizens today without the possibility of going to a hospital, driving through an emergency city. This is an extraordinary situation from the point of view of the Ministry of Economics. From the point of view of the district government, this is also an unusual situation. And they're saying that in March or February, 600,000 dollars were allocated so that it doesn't happen. In fact, it takes a few tens of millions of dollars already to rebuild this bridge. And what I want to tell you is that in the neighboring Kosovo area yesterday, the water level rose in such a way that it lifted the bridge between the village of Shepita and the procuravo. Another 900 people live there. This populace, which is now almost cut off, is a mountain river, lives between 5,000 and 7,000 people. And Mr. Cubans, and everyone else also sees absolutely no extraordinary situation. I believe that the first substitute for the head of ODA, who is now acting as the head of ODA, Mrs. Savak, and the head of RDA Keniz and Deputy Greenchuk, should simply be released from office immediately because these people do not see any danger to their inhabitants living in the territory of the Johno-Frankow region of the Supervirnian region. And this is just one of the objects that is destroyed. According to their estimates and the receipts I receive, this is all to be done at the expense of the local budget. Dear colleagues, I'd like to tell you that 100 million dollars is the minimum damage that there is today. The local budget reserve is 4.5 million dollars. At what cost can all of this be rebuilt? And at the same time, the government doesn't see anything. There was an order from the President about an emergency. Now again there are thunderstorm reports of, that is, a thunderstorm danger and a danger that will be nearer. They're waiting for all of this to be washed away, like in the neighboring Kosovo area. So I'm now addressing Groisman directly, who is now actively involved in the electoral campaign. Please, 30 seconds, if you please. I am now addressing the entire team of the so-called government of Groysman, who is now talking about responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u110	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u111	Which speaks of the responsibility that speaks of the country's development strategy and everything. Please include yourself in preventing the destruction of those infrastructure objects that are now severely damaged by the flood. Turn on and do not write down, not write down, but do things. The necessary steps have already been taken. Appropriate queries have been made, written. It takes at least 100 million dollars to restore all this infrastructure to prevent the accidents that might happen now. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u112	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u113	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear Ukrainians, colleagues! Today, the whole state is watching all the willing MPs who are trying to join the next parliament run across the country to marry their loved ones, forgetting that Parliament is still working and there are no holidays and holidays. And the country is still in a state of fighting in the east, and shells continue to be torn apart, people killed among the military and civilian population. A multimillion-dollar migration of people from Ukraine continues because there is neither work nor a decent salary nor pension nor even housing for them here in Ukraine. The government tells the mantras about the stability of the economy, about what they've done with all the problems and challenges, but they still need some time to polish the so-called screwdrivers, and they need five more years to do that. Oleg Laska's Radical Party team says, "No, that's enough. Stop bullying and robbing people. Feeding them with promises, while at the same time drawing out the final preservation of the families they kept to spend on either themselves or on their grandchildren or children. Which they put aside so that the government would now raise the final funds to meet the demands of either the International Monetary Fund or other foreign partners." Today, during the election campaign, you have the opportunity to show people and to prove to the Ukrainians that they are the greatest value in the country, not the loans you are willing to sell everything in Ukraine today. The Radical Party of Oleg Láška has done much for Ukraine and for the Ukrainians while working in parliament. It starts with economic and political decisions, continuing with social and humanitarian bills. And all of this we did, being in a large minority in an active parliament, rather than other political powers. Now, for the Radical Party, the question of restoring state funding to a youth lending programme for housing is still important. That this issue is now very important and relevant, says that the strong information from Ukraine, of the 13 million who have come out for various reasons, is 80 percent young people. If the state created basic conditions for their acquisition, housing, or employment, Ukraine today would not be the primary supplier of skilled labour to other countries of the world. Therefore, the Radical Party team is demanding that the government, when reviewing and budgeting for the second half of this year, provide for funds to restore funding for the youth benefit scheme. If we can save young people, we can also save Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u114	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Borislav Berezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u115	In 2016, I wrote a letter to the Kiev City Administration asking if there would be a garbage plant in Kiev. I was told that yes, it would. Then it was approved by the administration. Then, in his election campaign, Peter Poroshenko sent letters to all the citizens, including in Troistin, where he wrote, on the map where the debris complex would be located, that was in Troastre near TEC No 6. Then, in May of the 19th, they approved the decision. And now there are new rumors that will, indeed, be, but not in the Trinity. It's a very interesting story. There are answers to what is going to be a wastebasket complex. He's on the map. It's being prepared, the money is being spent on development and documentation, yes. And now they're trying to avoid that question. It's the same story that used to be on the Mikil Slob. When, before the elections, Kiev’s entire leadership promised that they would not build the shore of the Mikila Slobica. Every official who came told us to pick a mayor, and everything, we promise, will be fine. The local people believed, chose. Now go to Mikilski Slobek and see how much is already built. Moreover, they are still building. And all the promises they made at the time were already forgotten, because the elections had passed and the money that the sponsors had invested in those elections had to be reflected. The same will be true of the Trinity. Now they promise not to do anything. As soon as the elections are over, they will continue to build this wastebasket complex in Troy. They say it can take 700,000 tons per year of garbage. It's 46 trucks every hour, in Troas, all the time on our roads that are already broken down, on bridges, on congestion, all over. And then the Trinity will again become what, the province? In the same territory that is not respected in KMDA? We want to say that the people of Troas are fiercely opposed to building a wastebasket, garbage treatment or any other garbage treatment complex in the Trinity. If anyone wants to, he can do it on the Cave Hills, inside the KMDA, or actually find a site outside Kiev. So as an MP from Troy, from 213, I promise that I will do everything I can to ensure that this complex does not appear in the Trinity and that the Trinity remains a clean and beautiful place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u116	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Osuhovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u117	Are you done or not? Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. Last week, I met with my constituencies in the district once again, and I was approached by the inhabitants of the Plains, the Tiny Microregion, about the environmental danger that arose in that microregion. I immediately responded, went with the residents to the site, taking with me the deputy head of the district council of Alexia Buchinsky, as well as the head of the environmental commission on the district council of the freeman Vladimir Valevaka. We went out together, and we really found the ecological danger of seven toxic - chemical containers. And accordingly, it would be very hard to imagine if those poisons fell into the groundwater and could damage the Plain and the equations. I immediately turned to the DSS in the Plains region, to the law enforcement authorities, to the environmental inspection to make them respond. They went to the site to localize this ecological danger, which is, unfortunately, currently in the city of Ravennam. He appealed to the law enforcement authorities to punish everyone. I'm now asking the Minister of Ecology to take personal control of this situation with environmental hazards in the city of Equinom. And, you know, it's very sad that we, for example, have over 200 important bills, including environmental bills, economic bills, social bills, but unfortunately, they weren't put in the agenda. And in the next Parliament, I think there's going to be a powerful faction of the "Freedom All-Ukrainian Union," we're going to fix it. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u118	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Krivohatka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u119	Congratulations, fellow Ukrainians! At the beginning of this year, I knew, and not just me, but all of us, about a grand project in the construction of the airport of Transniprovia, the village of Solone Dnipropetrovsk. You know, I'm surprised by the ease with which. an unprecedented ease with which government money is wasted. It's already been highlighted. At first, I thought it was some kind of pyar technology or fairy tale, but for today, 200 million people have been set aside for some kind of project. Do you understand? Why Am I Indignant? Today, there are four airports in this area within a 100 - km [100 km] radius. Zaporozhye – the airport, Dnipropetrovsk, Krivi Rig and the airport, the village of Shiroke, was a teaching base. Tell me, what's the point of this construction, what's the point? Today, Zaporozhye Airport is being renovated, with 400 people per hour. So 2.5 million a year can be missed. Dnipropetrovsk for today is passable. Planned. At one time it was the most modern airport in the Soviet Union, and its pass was 800 people an hour. Do you understand? 800 people an hour. When planes flew into 70 cities of the Soviet Union. Please tell me this is all neglected today, and they need another airport that they want to hit 3 million. Three billion. It's just a terminal. I'm not talking about all the communication costs: roads, gas pipelines, electricity and everything. Tell me, there is. And Mr. Omelian with such a paphos all this. Today, there are three terminals in the city of Kiev, not working. The entire population of Dnipropetrovsk, Zaporozhye region, will not give that stream. The better times at the end of the Soviet Union were 600,000 a year by Dnipropetrov Airport. Tell me, when will Ukraine cease to be a hostage to the fight of the oligarchs? Two oligarchs will struggle: one privatized the airport, the other wanted to build an airport, and Ukraine paid for it. Today, there is a very large cost problem. Perhaps it is better to build a road to the Horn of the Curve and improve the road situation. Europe came this way when East Germany got independence the same way from the Soviet Union, yes, that's where it started. I started spending money and building airports. Today, half of them don't work, don't work, these airports, they're closed or they're doing a few charter flights. Can we afford this luxury that Germany can afford? No! No! Not much! Today, Zaporozhye lacks funds for hemodialysis, people die!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u120	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u121	projects without which Ukraine will cease to exist as a state. And Mr. Omelyan is building an airport, he wants to ruin 250 acres of state land, and we don't know how it's going to end. But there's a condition: the runway is required. Millions have been stolen. millions, tens, hundreds of millions steal from these buildings. Let's not let that happen, let's do something about it, some kind of collective appeal. Because at the end of the box office, people begin to tear down the roof and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u122	I invite you to speak to the people’s representative of Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u123	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Respectable Ukrainian society, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, you know, us, unfortunately, not much. On Friday many, I think, national deputies have already gone to work in the district. But one thing I want to say is that if a national MP, in 5 years of his work here in Parliament, has failed to prove that he works for the community that chose him, no matter how many months you try and try, you can't do anything. So I am pleased to see the faces of the Supreme Council every Friday. I am convinced that God will allow these national deputies, who are present every Friday in the parliament walls, to speak from the rostrum of parliament so that they will be present again in the future. in the future Supreme Council and the interests of those who put them there were well advocated. Taking this opportunity, I would like to briefly report for my work today both to those citizens who have delegated me to represent them in Parliament and to the people's deputies who are present today, because I believe that reporting by the National MP is no less important, perhaps even the most important element of the work of the National MP. So, what I'm saying is that in five years of activity, I've never missed a meeting of the Supreme Council without a valid reason. Over 82 percent of me took part in the vote for all the bills that were discussed in Parliament's walls. [[Applause]] Thank you, Paul. I want to say that 17 bills for my direct authorship or for co-authorship -- I thank my colleagues for their support -- have already become laws today, and these are laws that work not only for the territory that has delegated me to the walls of Parliament, but in general for Ukraine. Before that, I would like to thank the people's deputies for the decentralization reform they have started, because this reform is a very good success. I already have five new united communities in the district. Half of the county is surrounded by united communities, and this shows very good progress. We started a massive restoration of the infrastructure of the district and socio-economic objects. Over the past five years, we have restored 130 km of roads of national importance. In the district, the first two open swimming pools will be opened soon enough for children to swim. Three new schools and districts have begun and are being completed, with more than fifteen new kindergartens opened up, four new cultural buildings. This is just the beginning. I want to thank both my constituents for this support, so I want to thank them for taking this opportunity, and the fellow national MPs who supported my legislative initiatives. I can only say one thing: I protect and protect.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u124	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u125	Protected and continued to protect the interests of the country’s homeland in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u126	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Kiskar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u127	Dear friends, respected Ukrainians, support the thesis on participation in elections, will have to admit that I too plan to go to the 147th district with a center in Mirgorod. And I'd like to debate a competitor, but it's never in the walls of Parliament. So I'm not going to tell him that when we meet people, we're going to talk about the flaws of a man who's never in the walls of the Supreme Council. Children and playgrounds. Some of the problems that everyone here has been talking about -- and Glaucoma has mentioned -- and Solovay forgets, and people come to the election to set up the playgrounds in villages where there will soon be no children. Strangely enough, our people are voting for ice cream or a concert organized by one or the other candidate in the Majority District. It's probably our general flaw, our primary flaw in education and education. I think that we together in the process of reforming, including secondary education, will be able to overcome it, and the choice of our people will depend on the real work of one person or another, on his moral qualities, on his physical qualities, on the degree to which a person is Ukrainian-centric in his actions. We talk about children as the most valuable thing in our lives, we can only view them as the most expensive, and we talk about them a lot. And in reality, the teachers' wages want to be better, and the incentives given now by decentralization are so small or the heads of the community don't want to use these incentives to motivate the pedagogical personnel that work with our most expensive ones, with our children. So I think the emphasis that will be in my election campaign in the chapter "Children" is about just improving the work with the teaching staff, encouraging these people to improve themselves, their knowledge, and then coming to our children with the expertise, knowledge and understanding of the problems that we have. The challenges that our children will face in the future. For the time being, secondary education in the same region of Mirgorod, even in Mirgorod, wants to be better. I think we will find these incentives together with our teachers and parents. The roads, the work and the community are basically four of the main criteria that we're going to be talking about and looking for together, looking for solutions, offering our vision of development.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u128	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u129	With regard to the development of communities in general, 147 districts and Mirrodrodské OTH, in particular. And I think there's going to be problems of mossing and recycling, which is what Kiev is talking about today, and mostly how we're going to solve these issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u130	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u131	Ivan Sporish, Winnitzkin, 15th district. I want to thank Gregory Schwerk, who gave me his word. It's nice to meet you, though. And I might not take the floor, but they say that when we come out of the Supreme Council's rostrum, our voters can't hear us. After my first speech, I was called from two of my districts and told, again, why you don't raise those problems and why you don't raise others. Of course, we should and I, as a national deputy from my districts, should raise the questions of everyone without exception. Including, I will say that I have five large areas on Winnitzkin: this is Tulchin, Chargorod, this is the Chernivecki region, this is Tomaspilski, Murovanokurilovecki. And there are problems in every area. But first of all, I got a call and was told that these roads that I was asking the Cabinet today and those that were constantly speaking from the Supreme Council’s rostrum began to repair. Not to be a capital repair, they began to make these pits, which are in limestone today. We couldn't get through or through. And that's nice. But it would be a real pleasure for them not only to cover the holes but to repair the road that had not been repaired for 50 years. They also picked me up from Chargord, and I just got a phone call to ask me again today. This is the first thing we have to do today is protect the farmers of the simple, protect the leaders of the agricultural enterprises of the simple, not the large holdings and so on, really, from raiding. It is, it has been, and it will probably be, until we adopt the appropriate laws. Because we know perfectly well when contracts are being re-registered, everyone is primarily trying to deceive a simple farmer, to deceive a simple farm manager. And that's why I think it's also our underwork, the Supreme Council, where we have to do everything to make it happen. Here on the legal level, you could have done it all. It's not just for a raider to come in there, remake a seal, remake a whole other deal with a loved one, and take these lands to a simple farmer. I think we should do it in the next, in the next session. I also wanted to raise questions and prices for milk. You know, there's a call and a phone call again, and they say the price of milk was low today. And we understand very well that we cannot adjust this price. Because at the legislative level, we can accept some price of a stable one according to the law, as we once wanted to accept four bracelets. But today there's not enough money and 8 dollars. Not only do we know how hard it is for people today to hold this cow and want to survive at the expense of it by selling that milk. And the price for milk today is very low, 4 bracelets.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u132	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u133	And we also have to work out the question, really, this is raising pensions for our peasants, for our people. Because these tiny pensions, they still don't catch up with what they are. We have to do everything we can today to make these pensions much higher. That's why I think we should vote. Today, people need to determine who to choose. Today, people need to redefine that not those who sow with Greek, that not those who buy, are making small stops.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u134	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u135	Dear Ukrainians, the honorable squires! I am never ashamed to look into people’s eyes because I have worked for 5 years in the interests of citizens in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. And you know, yesterday our Constitutional Court dismissed this Council definitively. We're all going to the July 21st elections to reload Ukrainian politics and clear it of corruption. And I didn't consider taking part in a major campaign, if it wasn't for the events that happened in the last few days. Unfortunately, what we're seeing right now is the growth problems for the new "Serve of the People" party, when people are trying to squeeze into the environment of the newly elected President of Greens and put people in the districts of the people who are being built up, people who are involved in not very dense businesses, who are trying to turn Kiev into actually a resource for the mafia. I state that there is now an attempt to appoint a new watchman to Kiev with the new President. And I urge President Greensky to clean up his environment from such people. In the Kyiv districts, such a builder is named Vavrish. This is the first time that it's in Parliament's walls, but it's going to sound very often in the next Parliament, because I'm putting out my candidacy for the District of Podil 220 to protect Kiev from the builders and from the people who are looking at our land, our historic center just as a resource for wealth. That's why I'm going after 220 so that the growth problems that are in the People's Party don't turn into chronic problems when the MPs who are trying to break into Parliament now under this brand, under the popular Zelensky brand, then just become obedient puppets in the hands of the builders. So as a member of the current parliament, I report my work to you. During these years, I was given more than 400. Over 400 meetings were held with the voters, and 3,000,600 were given. I helped Ukrainian businesses, Ukrainian companies, to resist the pressure of Medvedchuk in the market for compressed gas and diesel. I fought Rotterdam Plus and against criminal schemes when our money went to the enrichment of a particular oligarch of Ahmedov. In Kiev, I held receptions in all areas, I protected the Blue Market from oblivion, the Potejina Voivodeship Park from obstruction, the Soviet stakes, Mechenkova, 7b, Wozniesenskiy Vistula, 28/30. This is my district, the Podil district, what are they trying to turn new viewers into? Please make a big plan for this video, show me that the next building was done right in the center of Kiev. And I'm saying that the new President is going to be trying to push all of this out, because the Kievs are going to be transformed into a new viewing range by the new government. My appeal is very simple for Vladimir Zelensky. Clear Kiev from the new viewers and from the candidates to the deputies, from the new viewers, particularly in the district of Kiev No. 220. Including in his speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u136	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u137	I'm talking to law enforcement. Do not close your eyes and fight the land mafia, who will try to do the same mess, but for the new leaders of Ukraine. That's what I'm reporting to you guys, the kyans, that I've taken all the steps I've taken and saved myself from shutting down the hospital at Sagaidajdajny, just like in my district in the city of Kiev. Similarly, in the Delhi region, I meet and hear every day about real problems, about the fact that in the 21st century we leave pensioners without basics, without elevators.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u138	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the Shurma People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u139	Respectable citizens of Ukraine have, at last, cooled off their passion for the constitutionality of the President’s decree to suspend the Supreme Council’s powers on a permanent basis. But it had to be done a long time ago. Because aside from the legal side, there is a moral. Now in the hall, I always say Friday, 15 people work. 15 out of 400. See, when a doctor, a teacher, a teacher in a kindergarten, a mailman, a janitor, he gets paid for every hour, a meager amount of money. We MPs are all paid for working in the Supreme Council. This is our job. And our work is clearly laid down in the Law on the Rules. When we work in the districts, when we work on the committees, and there is a sessional week when Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday today, we have to work until 2 p.m. That's why people have hatred for those who are members of the Supreme Council and what's called "under the dome." Because without going to work, there's an example here right now, they keep getting paid. Moral plank fell a long time ago. You know, I was looking at the government today, I mean, the biggest problem we have today, the deputies are working for Ukraine. And today we hear when the government chief says, "I've made roads. I opened the hospital. I did it." An MP comes out, says, "I did it. And in my district.".. Yes, you and I have no districts, we have Ukraine, and we are doomed and obliged to do so. And all our calls, all our questions, all our discussions, it's our duty, we're paid for it. Today, look, there were government officials sitting. This is the Deputy Minister speaking. The deputy minister says, "You know, the citizen left her sweet life in America and came here to set things straight." Did anyone ask her here? Did she stop being an American citizen? You see, the court's decision, the Sixth Administrative Court of Appeal, he admitted to being an illegal Suprun. This means that all of her activities on the distribution of funds, after purchasing through the Cabinet of Ministers, are illegal. But everyone's protecting her. Immorality is that the coalition has taken up board positions, gets a bonus. There's no coalition today. Have a moral conscience, colleagues from the People's Front, you said you were leaving the coalition. And those government officials on your quota, why didn't they take a moral step and say, we're leaving office because we're synchronized with our political power? Parliament is immoral and happy that it stops its activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u140	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Aresonkov. After that, we'll have a number of other speeches from deputies who didn't make it to the record, but we have time for them to come out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u141	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians! This week, aside from political events, there was a rather interesting and satisfying event in the cultural life of Ukraine. On one of the channels, there was a feature film, a feature film, which involved an accident at the Chernobyl atomic station. And you could react to this motion picture as a cultural phenomenon if it wasn't for one thing. This film has been screened in many countries around the world, drawing attention to an enormous number of people. And that deep layer of questions and problems that are raised in this film are not just about the story that happened 30 years ago, one of the most natural technological catastrophes in human history. This includes today’s modern - day Ukraine, the problems of vast territories, the problems that thousands or tens of thousands of Ukrainians, adults, and children face today. Because the small doses of radiation that these people have received and the consequences of, and this disease, including a huge number of oncosa, are what the Ukrainians today suffer. This raises the main question: What does the state do to prevent the recurrence of such tragedies? And whether Ukraine, the Ukrainian government today, has done everything in order to fulfill its obligations to the Chernobylites, to the survivors of the accident, to their families, to those affected by the disaster, and what is being done to minimize all risks and dangers once again. Today, tens of thousands of tourists are going to ride into the Chernobyl area. Or do these tourists know that hundreds of square miles around the reactor are so far polluted. And no one asks the question that there will be fires now, so this will be felt by the multimillion - dollar Kiev. Today, the government program has been completed. I demand that the Ukrainian government, and I call on the new President, restore the new state program, which will take all the full lines that relate to the restoration of human health, material reparations, the restoration of territories, and so forth. And to the end. If we so respect the decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u142	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u143	And I've found that this is true, and I have one question: why doesn't the government implement the Constitutional Court decision last year, which restored the complete aid package for the Chernobylites, the citizens who were affected by the Chernobyl nuclear accident? I demand the execution of a court decision and a new state program.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u144	I invite you to speak to the national deputy of Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u145	Leonid Jemetz, city of Kiev Dear Ukrainians! Respectable squires! My dear colleagues, there are not many of you, but I am grateful to you because you are in your workplace and you work. In fact, what I wanted to talk to you about may not be directly related to our parliamentary duties as legislator, but it is directly related to the interests and rights of our citizens. A clear example is the situation that has now arisen in the Protas’s Yar of Kiev. I think each of you has heard that Kievers were covering the street because they wanted to protect their own rights, and they took these measures because they didn't find another way to protect their constitutional rights. The situation did not just end with the street covering, because after that the Kiev City Council committee held a number of meetings where it was determined that the ground for overlap was enough banal for the city of Kyiv, the banal one, is often meant to meet here, unfortunately. It was a setup. It's illegal construction, not anywhere, but on the slopes of Protassian Spring. On the slopes that largely hold this territory from being able to stop a situation that was long ago in Podola, when the earth simply came down, destroying and taking the lives of hundreds and thousands of people of Kiev. In order for this not to happen, the proper rules and regulations of the building are and are foreseen. So in Protas' Yar, these rules and regulations, they don't follow. And the community came out with an absolutely just and objective requirement: it cannot build that is threatening both infrastructure and the lives of people who live and work around it. The situation that arose there led to the fact that the State Architectural Inspectorate issued a bill prohibiting any works by the builder until the matter was investigated in court, and until the flaws of what is called a simple word, which means a threat to the life and health of the people, are addressed. So, instead of removing these flaws, the builder went to the court, to the Kyiv District Administration. And in a judge by the name of Weirdo, he was given a decision that, since the builder could lose money, he could ignore the ban and the DABI's prescription to do his work and allow him to continue drinking trees there, doing construction work, and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u146	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u147	It was clear that experts who clearly understood the danger were not allowed to do the work. Without examining these circumstances, the court simply took the side of the prodigal and canceled the prescription. To this day we have a conflict between people who simply want to protect their own lives and freedoms and the interests of a builder who wants to make money. I don't think it's for any of the normal people, well.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u148	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u149	I want to draw the attention of colleagues and all the people who live in Ukraine to the situation with the ZIK channel. You know that's the third Ukrainian news channel that Victor Medvedchuk's people bought. The people of Victor Medvedchuk actually represent the interests of the Kremlin in Ukraine long ago, openly and without hiding. From the channel went editor-in-chief Roman Nedzelski, followed by the wonderful leading Tetjana Danilenko, Vachtang Kipiani, Sergey Rachmanin. In fact, hundreds of journalists know that they will not be able to bring information to the Ukrainians truthfully about what is happening in Ukraine and go. This is a very dangerous situation for people when Ukrainians start to look at the events in Ukraine with the eyes of the Kremlin, and they are faced with despair, ruin, and occupation. This is what happened in Crimea, where most people watched Russian television channels, is what happened in Donetsk and Lugansk, where the influence of Russian propaganda through Russian media was a decisive factor in the success of the invaders. Regrettably, former President Peter Poroshenko used Medvedchuk as a lost cause, hoping that by returning him to Ukraine, giving him the opportunity to buy assets here, he would look like a patriot and get people's votes for it. What's happened here is that you know very well. I am confident that, in the interests of the entire country, in the interests of the entire Parliament, the new President will be able to use as soon as possible the Act on Sanctions, which allows for the withdrawal of licences, the confiscation of property and the elimination of all information channels in Ukraine, through which the Kremlin expands its offensive to our independence. All of these are the most dangerous elements of the hybrid war against Ukraine. Russian tanks always come for Russian television, an important lesson today that we cannot forget. And last of all, I'd like to talk to the viewers of these channels. You need to understand that you are now being molded by an enemy, do not let yourself be deceived.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u150	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Antonistak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u151	Good afternoon! For over 4.5 years, I spent more than four and a half years with colleagues from the Tax and Customs Committee to divide the corruption pillar of the State Fiscal Service into two tax and customs services, 4.5 years of meetings of belief with the IMF, which we did, which the government of Groysman attributed to ourselves. What's going on now? If the tax service is created, then the customs manager's competition is blocked by me because it was already known, two days after the contest was announced, the winner of the competition. My first statement is that we will not give up or allow ourselves to be run by the old authorities of the old corruption schemes. And now I want to address the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service of Vlasov, Attorney General Lucenko, to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation of the Truba regarding the illegal activity of the Chief of Customs of the French Customs, Mr. Watamańuk. As a national deputy of Ukraine, I became familiar with the Chief of Customs, Watamańuk Vasile, who organized illegal imports and customs in the mode of importing vehicles purchased in the United States. Infringement of legislation is evident. In contrast to the stated cost of U.S. cars for customs purposes, the real cost of these means of transport posted on websites. There are also one - meter traffic indicators on these sites that do not match the indicated values in the registration documents. As a result of these actions, Ukraine’s public budget for car washes amounted to about $50,000 a month or more half a million dollars a year. Also, early French customs Watamańuk during July 17th, the first half of 18th, systematically walked almost every Monday about four hours of working time in connection with his flight from Kiev to the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. As of July 17th and July 18th, Watamańuk was absent from work for over a hundred hours and got paid for it. Thus, he systematically walked more than three hours a day and obtained an illegal salary on the basis of the introduction of unreliable data into the worktime table. In doing so, Vatamaniak misused his position of service by misappropriating money. On the basis of the above, please provide information in the Single Register of Investigative Investigations concerning the illegal activities of Chief Johno-Frankow Customs of DFS Vatamańuk Vasil. The other one. Conduct a service investigation into the illegal activities of the Chief of the Ivano-Frankow Customs of the DFS on the analysis and detection of such cases to prevent and warn the State of its damage. Take appropriate measures to address the illegal activities of the Chief of the Ivano-Frankow Customs of the DFS.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u152	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u153	To remove the Chief of the Ivano-Frankow Customs of the DFS from performing duties during the investigation period in order to avoid illegal influence on the results of the investigation. Please consider my speech as a parliamentary request. It will continue: it will continue on Volin Customs, it will continue on the Zacarpathian Customs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u154	Thank you. I'd like you to make the speech as a parliamentary address. And next, I invite you to the presentation of the national deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u155	Good afternoon, Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Today on the "hour of questions to the government" I asked questions about issues that not only in my district – Brodivski, Buzekki, Kamyanka-Buzki, Radehovsk oblast – but also across Ukraine in connection with the treatment of pesticides in the fields. On many occasions, I conducted briefings, brought herdsmen here to tell me how bees were dying, and according to the use of agrarians, powerful agrarian enterprises, these pesticides. And when I write the questions, I get the answers from various services on the subject that I have raised. For example, I am told that in Lviv, for example, 50 powerful agribusinesses work to protect crops from pests, diseases, and weeds, for example, and that about 829 names of pesticides and agrochemicals are used to protect crops. Well, where does the human body survive by breathing this chemical into the heat, when the agrarians spray it all away without any standards, by misusing that these drugs are probably illegally imported, because they're not certified and so on. Because we know that now in the China market, these chemicals, these pesticides are so many, and they're not certified, they're not allowed in Ukraine, but because they're cheap, they're smuggled in and used illegally, they're dripped in fields. And I was very pleased to hear that the government officials today said that the two bills were drafted on government committees and would be submitted here to the Supreme Council for consideration by Parliament and are being amended, including various regulations and regulations, to simplify the process of controlling these agribusinesses that use these pesticides. And the most important thing to do is to stop or cancel the registration of drugs based on the active substances of glyphosate – according to the decision of the German Ministry of Environment, acetochlor – according to the decision of the Committee on Chemicals of the United Nations Rotterdam Convention, a combination of a group of neonicoids of thiamethoxam, Clothianidine and so on – according to the European Food Safety Agency. I mean, I hope that government officials will make these changes as soon as possible, cancel the registration of these drugs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u156	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u157	And they will process fields with really safe substances that will help to really fight pests in the fields, but, above all, they will not harm people’s health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u158	Thank you. May I have the floor, to the last address, of the People's Deputy Ribak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u159	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency district, Kitzmanski, Visninicki, Putilski, St. On the other hand, I would like to report on my work in the Ukrainian Parliament, both in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament and in the constituency during these five years. Over the course of these five years, I have registered some 170 bills, 15 of which have become valid laws of Ukraine, 48 to this day are voted in the first reading as a basis. I also sent 380 requests to the central authorities of the executive branch. I have received some 2,000 appeals to local authorities, executive authorities, local governments, and central executives and law enforcement agencies. In addition, for no good reason have I missed the meetings of the Ukrainian Parliament, nor have I missed any sessions of the Environmental Policy, Environmental and Disaster Management Committee. With regard to the work in the constituency, I have organized a series of appeals to the central executives, to the Ministry of Ecology, to the Ministry of Regional Construction, as well as to the Cabinet of Ministers, asking for funds to be allocated for the development of local infrastructure, as well as for sociocultural institutions. We've done enough. And such an example of our cooperation with the local authorities was the construction of the first sewage treatment plants in the town of Visnica in the Carpathian region. And it's just recently, literally, these cleaning plants have been put into operation. We built baby pools. And especially in the village of Šipinci, in the region of Kherniewec, 800 children are already engaged in swimming in the country’s swimming pool. I think that's good enough, but that's just the beginning. I've worked, I've worked, I've worked. I worked with my constituents, worked with my constituents, and worked with my constituents. Because when people are trying to push a cat into a bag in election districts today, a person under a brand, but a person who has done absolutely nothing has shown how he can work, his effectiveness for the community, I think people should appreciate it. Otherwise it's going to be seen as a signal to the next MPs that absolutely nothing in the constituencies has to be done, because people don't appreciate it. I don't think I'm ashamed to look at my constituents. Like the voters, it's not a shame that they sent me to work here in 2014 for their own good. Glory to Ukraine! And we'll win together.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-21-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've finished our work today, our discussion at the Vulnerable. I would like to remind you that next week the national MPs are working with the electorate and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Also on June 28 our great celebration is the Day of the Constitution of Ukraine. I welcome the deputies and citizens of Ukraine with this day, which is important to us. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, July 2, 2019, at 10 a.m. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
