ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, colleagues, take up jobs. Are you ready for your registration? I'd like you to sign up, please. [[10:01:46]] 319 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleagues. In Olga Vadimovna, the Mantis. Welcome to Ola's birthday! Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenka. Welcome! In Vadim IvanovichPodbrzezniak. Welcome to your birthday! [[Applause]] My colleagues, I would like to remind you that these days it is exactly five years since the signing of the political part of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. Using the presence of the government, and we have the government and the prime minister of Ukraine present, we welcome our government. I want to welcome everyone with this momentous event, because it is on Parliament's side and the government that is responsible for implementing the provisions of the Association Agreement. Along with the government, we've developed a road map of Euro-Integration Laws that we implement step by step. I'm sure Ukraine will be a member of the European Union, and our job is to work hard. My colleagues, I would also like to inform you that today, after "the hour of questions to the government," we will continue to consider the rights. The structure of the work will be that we will carry out "the hour of questions", then the revisions, and what is provided by the Rules will be fully accomplished: half an hour of enquiries reading - 12:30-13:00 and an hour of speeches by the deputies - 1:00-14:00. That is, all the rules required and prescribed by the Rules will be fulfilled. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u2	Apparently, yes. Apparently, yes. That is, everything will be as prescribed by the Rules. The only thing that we have is the time that we have between the "hour of government" and the 12th, we will use to consider at least some of the rights of the Law on Language, because we all care that it is more readily accepted for the joy of all Ukrainians. So, colleagues, I also want to report that there are several applications for recess. Oleg Valeriyovich! Three minutes from yesterday, Pisarenko, three minutes from yesterday, and then three minutes from now. So we're going to have three shows, colleagues. Three performances -- and we're moving on to an hour of questions to the government. And I'm in this sequence, and I'm going to give you the first one, Valery Pisarenko, please, in three minutes. Then Oleg Lazko, the "Fatherland" faction and Radalna, and then Dudenkov. Please, Mr. Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! The second week in a row, we are considering the Language Law. We have enough serious disputes, and the language is not in the individual positions of the law, but in the language and philosophy laid down in the law. I took with me the Constitution of Ukraine today, and I want to read to my colleagues who are engaged in such disputes, article 10 of the Constitution: "The State ensures the comprehensive development and functioning of Ukrainian in all spheres of social life throughout Ukraine. Ukraine guarantees free development, use and protection of Russian, other languages of Ukraine’s national minorities. The State promotes learning the languages of international communication. The use of languages in Ukraine is guaranteed by the Constitution and is governed by law." Article 10 of the Constitution does not state anywhere that a person is obliged that a State may not provide medical services to a State if it does not know Ukrainian that a State may restrict it to educational services if it does not know Ukrainian that a State may, if the level of the Ukrainian State is not the one that determines the national commission provided for by law, not be able to participate in certain positions or to work in public service. This philosophy, laid down in the law today, is contrary to what is enshrined in the Constitution. If philosophy is not changed, you and I will come to the point that the rights of Ukrainians will be violated and the Ukrainian language will not receive the comprehensive development that is discussed in the Constitution. Once again, I would like to point out that article 10 places the State’s commitment on the commitment to ensure comprehensive development rather than the obligation to talk. Article 10 speaks of Ukraine as guaranteeing the free development of other languages, including Russian, rather than being eradicated in all spheres of life. What are we talking about in the hall? What we're going to do is change philosophy. With regard to public service, government action, and so forth, let the State’s language be fully developed and the State provides support. But what's relevant to the public sector, education, science, private business, let's make it possible to use all languages, because using all languages, we can be more competitive. Another piece of information. Today, 52 percent use English on the Internet and third place use Russian websites. Thus, by limiting the use of other languages today, we limit ourselves in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u4	Thank you. Mr. Valérie, the philosophy of the law is in support of the development of Ukrainian language and all languages, but first and foremost, in the language of communication for all of Ukraine. Let's work together on the law, and I'm sure you'll support it. Yes, we invite Oleg Lazko of the Radical Party and Fatherland faction. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u5	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I am addressing Prime Minister Groysman, who, along with his government last Wednesday, continued in secret, in the thieves, as the apherists of such finesse, continued the contract for the head of Naftogazu Kobolev. People were not allowed into the Cabinet of Ministers. We brought these people to Parliament today, and you beat the old people in Kabmin, your protection, to prevent the whole country from showing how you robbed the people while continuing your contract with Koboljev. The Prime Minister has deceived me personally and is deceiving all Ukrainians when he claims that it does not affect the level of wages of the Naftogazu leadership that he cannot pay back 1.5 billion dollars of the premium that Naftogazu managed. Then I have a question for the Prime Minister. If you don't influence, if you can't return the money you stole from the Ukrainians, 1.5 billion, why do you need it? And why do you need this government of impotents that allows you to steal this money from Ukrainians? One and a half billion dollars have written off so - called bonuses, and they've actually stolen from the Ukrainians, they've gone into their pockets, they've taken off, and the authorities are telling us what's not going on. That's why they're changing this power with the Naftogazu leadership! And what I'm saying is, if you've continued your contract, if you haven't made a deal to return this money, then you're "crushing" these thefts, the massive theft of the Ukrainians. You've taken responsibility for Kobolev stealing from the Ukrainians, and by your inaction, you're breaking in. Moreover, Prime Minister Groissman began to lecture me at a government meeting on the economy, as he did all right for people and which all Ukrainians were satisfied with his activities. Mr. Prime Minister, there's another batch of people you don't know. You're telling me that we came to you to open America. I'm not going to open you up to America, I'm going to open you up to villages, like Dniproperty. The Pochrov district center. Valentina Mikolayevna Scottarenko met me, 42 years of apprenticeship: 1 thousand 900 dollars a pension, 1 thousand 200 dollars a utility, and 600 dollars a living. In the same Pochrovsky. Svetlana Dmitrovna Efanova: 1 thousand 945 pennies of pension, disabled group III, worked as a pig for the rest of her life. That's how you people make a living. And when you're telling me that we don't have an alternative to raising gas prices, because otherwise the IMF won't lend, I'll tell you what's the alternative. This is where our laws for economic recovery are registered in Parliament. Support them, not sabotage them and tear them down. The Law "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians", the Law on Industrial Parks, the Law on Free Connection to Energy Networks, the Law on Prohibition of Exports from Ukraine of Unprocessed Raw Materials to Recycle Production here in Ukraine. Here's an alternative to that robbery policy that you're running today, prescribing Ukrainians to poverty. Why? Because you're puppets who depend on IMF loans.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u6	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u7	Depending on embassies, who are even dependent on them, God knows who are independent of the Ukrainians and independent of common sense. We're offering another alternative. Instead of the raw colonization you're doing by conspiring Ukrainians to go abroad and rob them, we're proposing a policy of development, economic recovery and poverty eradication. Unfortunately, you do not support this policy. And I think your time is coming. If you don't return one and a half.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u8	And, colleagues, the closing statement from the factions is Dudenkov, three minutes. And let's move on to an hour of questions to the government. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u9	Good morning, dear fellows! Alexander Doubenkov, Opposition Block. I want to address, first of all, the government with regard to the violent situation that has resulted from the unfairly introduced system of recalculation of monthly social benefits for those affected by industrial accidents and occupational diseases that have caused the loss of work. The point is that on February 20th of this year, Regulation No. 160, which established the 1.05 coefficient, was 5 percent. In other words, the increase in regressive pay to those affected by industrial accidents and occupational diseases has resulted in a partial loss of employment and to those who have lost their jobs. The corresponding victims, i.e. the victims, were listed in accordance with this decree by 5 percent. The people could not wait for the fulfillment of this decree and could not be away from this unjust decision. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Prime Minister, I'm sorry, I'm addressing you. You see, he does other things. Now in fact, people are starving on the Social Policy Committee, and they insist that you, as the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, enforce the law. What does the law say? The Ukrainian Act "On Public Compulsory State Social Insurance" states that the recalculation of social benefits should be in line with the increase in the average wage due last year. The average wage was increased by more than 24 percent, and a 5 percent increase was made to the victims. I'm not criticizing you right now, Vladimir Borisovich, I want to find the compromise that people are looking for, the vast majority of the population, whose rights are now violated in fact by this regulation of 160. And those representatives who are now starving are an act of social protest against the egregious injustice that takes place at the time of this decision. We're like MPs, like the opposition block faction, and we're preparing a constitutional application. We are now calling on all factions to join, not to get ahead of themselves on the subject. Now the girl is sitting outside the hall of the plenary, she's collecting signatures, I've prepared a constitutional application with my colleagues from the Opposition Block. But in order not to bring this situation into absurdity, you would want to be quick to resolve the problem. And I'm now urging you to find a compromise solution: to recalculate in line with the average wage growth, not by 5 percent, but by 24.8 percent, according to the State Department, that the average is increased.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u10	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u11	According to the State Department. I'll give you statistics so I don't have to be loud. The nominal salary for 2018 has increased by 24.8 percent, the average minimum wage. Article 37. Ukraine's "On a mandatory government social insurance" refers to the recalculation in proportion to the increase. That's too little -- 5 percent. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u12	So let's start with an hour of questions to the government. And I invite you to speak with the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Eugene MikolaiovichNishchuk. Mr. Eugene, please be 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u13	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear Prime Minister! Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! In Ukrainian society, there is a growing interest in the historical past, the discovery and exploration of the pages of national history, the national traditions that have been hidden and copied in recent centuries by the Russian Empire or any other empire in which Ukraine has been in different times. The preservation and development of the traditional Ukrainian culture and its transfer to the next generation is one of the main tasks of the Ministry of Culture. Today, I am pleased to present the Ministry's work as important as its intangible cultural heritage, namely the joint Minculture and Google Ukraine project "Authenticity Ukraine. Immaterial cultural heritage." Over the past two years, the Ministry of Culture and Google Ukraine has been working on creating unique web-based resources to familiarize users with the cultural heritage of various regions of Ukraine. During this short period of time, wooden churches on the UNESCO World Heritage List, museums of heaven and opera theaters in Ukraine were digitized. In the course of implementation of this project, eight outstanding monuments of the Carpathian region have been digitized with unique and beautifully picturesque 3D tours. The user can conduct a virtual tour of the wooden churches that are part of the UNESCO World Heritage List. The site also contains articles describing the history and features of these monuments. Of course, there is an English - speaking version. The digitization of museums simply covered 7 significant objects in this direction. In addition to a convenient 3D tour of informative reference articles describing the memory, for most of the objects, they were also taken off-line, adding bright impressions to the users. To sink into the atmosphere of opera theatres and its landscapes of various cities in Ukraine, to feel their inspired beauty from their computer, tablet or just phone has become possible with the implementation of 3D-designing of opera theaters in Ukraine. The bright virtual 3D tours, audio and video illustrations, the history and uniqueness of each object are also available to anyone who wants to carry out a virtual campaign into the Ukrainian opera. And now I propose to return directly to the project that we presented this week on the government of Ukraine and the government of Ukraine supported: "Authentitic Ukraine. Immaterial cultural heritage." I am convinced that the promotion of Ukrainian cultural acquisition, the promotion of Ukrainian traditions, culture, hospitality also have a major impact on the socio-economic development of the country, because culture is a powerful way of cooperating and interacting among nations around the world. Traditional crafts are an integral part of the culture and life of Ukrainian society. On the one hand, they are linked to the management and development of natural resources, and on the other, they are part of the spiritual culture of the people, because they reflect the creativity and knowledge of the people. In this chapter, we talk about pottery and elements that are already included in the book: the tradition of Kosovo-painted ceramics, opishnian ceramics, the tradition of ornamental design of drum ceramics, it's a decorative inscription, petrick's inscription, Ukrainian decorative applied painting, fabric, rabbit's brittle fabric, the tradition of plant carpeting of the village of Rešetilvka, embroidery, the technology of embroidery to white ones. By the end of last year, the government of Ukraine, for the support of the people’s deputies, had created an embroidery centre in Reschetylovka and tissue, for which I am very grateful. Art carving. I'm going to point out that traditional crafts are the basis for creative industries, which is a tool for creating added value and for strengthening the national economy. Over the past two years, we have significantly intensified the process of filling the National List of Immaterial Cultural Heritage Elements of Ukraine, which now includes 14 elements. In addition, in order to promote cultural cooperation with other countries, given the importance of building a positive image of Ukraine in the world, the Ministry of Culture participates in the session of the General Assembly of States Parties to the UNESCO Convention on the Conservation of Immaterial Cultural Heritage and the Inter-Governmental Committee. So far, the element of "Petrikian Writing - Ukrainian Ornamental Painting" and the element "The Cossack Songs of Dniproperty" is included in the list of the immaterial cultural heritage of mankind. With the aim of making Ukrainian elements more widely available, the Ministry of Culture is looking at the UNESCO next session of the nomination file "Tradition of Kosovo Painted Ceramics" and in February 19th, the element to be considered, the element "Ornek" is the Crimean Tatar ornament and knowledge of it." For centuries our ancestors have accumulated knowledge of the world and nature around us. This knowledge was the basis of the Ukrainian people's economic and household culture, such as the "Bortstvo" element included by the Donatzperika 2018, which includes a whole set of traditions, customs, rituals, rational practices that ensured the continuity of community life. And of course, I think it's very important that we support our friends -- the Crimean Tatar people -- and we include the Ornek element. National performing art is an area of artistic and creative activity that presents folklore works, such as the traditional village of Luca and the Cossack songs of Dniproperty. Musical instruments, dances, stage plays, games. It is very important that there are now expeditions of young people, young creators who are completely reproducing these traditions, that is, they have to live on. Because of living personal performance, individual artistic elements of oral creativity are revived in space and time, and materialism is acquired. National customs, rituals, traditions, celebrations, which are an integral part of everyday life and have become a means of preserving Ukrainian identity, are of great importance to assert Ukrainian national self - awareness. As living conditions changed, traditions, celebrations changed, and ritual activities were constantly transformed. Some of their elements disappeared, replaced others, but the main meaning and sacral meaning coincide. From childhood, we learn about the world through traditions, songs, fairy tales, legends, carols, generositys, great events of national history, we speak our first words in our own language. In this way, the spiritual preservation of each nation has long been ensured. To conclude, creativity, based on an intangible cultural heritage, is the engine of development, the source of increasing the competitiveness of the national economy, which meets the globalization challenges of today. This resource and this website of recent new technologies provides an opportunity to learn everything in a modern way, especially for the young generation, about the cultural acquisitions that are within the country. Now it's very important to promote internal tourism, which is finally becoming a trend when people start learning about color, diversity, the identity of every region inside the country. Thus, we come to know ourselves, so we have something to represent ourselves in the world worthily and thus to be proud of our state. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u14	Heroic glory! Thank you, Mr. Eugene. And we're moving on to issues from factions, colleagues. I'm asking the factions who are going to ask the government to record. Please. Everyone, please hold the record. From the Opposition Block of Igorshurm. Please ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u15	Dear Eugene. Vladimir Borisovich, questions. Last time you accused a faction of being responsible and personally responsible for that state of affairs in the social sphere, and we, as it were, are to blame. I'll remind you, I'll bring you back in 2012, and on the same day, we have a story in common with you. You're the city's head of Winnice, and I, as deputy to the district administration of Kharkiv district, have been rewarded with the Order "For Credits" of the third degree of Victor Yanukovic. In view of the fact that you did not give up this order, we have a responsibility together to some extent because you were responsible for the community of Vincenzo, and I was responsible for Kharkishte. Now for the questions. Why is the Science and Technology Act being violated and the third month in breach is not signed by Todurom, who has been chosen and who has passed all the special checks? And did you know that the third month, 2,000 medical scientists continue to fail to pay wages?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u16	Please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u17	Thank you. Thank you, Igor Mikhailovich, for your question. I was awarded the prizes as a vindictive city head, the truth, and I got them as public rewards, not personal awards. Sometimes they were rewarded with a ticket to "Parties of the Regions." Fortunately, I never had one. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I think that's what I'm into. I had a very firm position, unlike the others. But in 2008, I was also awarded a state order by the President of Ukraine. And in the 12th year, the President of Ukraine. And I want to tell you that I was also rewarded with such an exact order, but the Republic of Poland, the President of Poland. And it's an honor for me to have the national rewards for the work of my local team, which at that time achieved good results and success. But on the other hand, I can tell you that I have also been opposed to the reforms that the current government has been carrying out, particularly medical reform, which, unfortunately, has been problematic and ineffective enough. But the point is, by contract, I know we have a proper appeal from the candidate who won the competition. I believe that the Ministry of Health must implement the decision of the competitive commission and make this contract, a new one. And second position: Medical University in Odessa. On Wednesday, the government decided to conduct an official review of why, for what reasons, wages were not paid. And with that result, we're going to inform you, but we're going to achieve the start of the payoff. [[B in m in s a l in]] I heard. I'll find out. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u18	From Self-Help, Wojcietsky Victoria is handing over to Semensi. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u19	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, as you may have heard, has been starving miners from all parts of Ukraine in the Social Policy Committee for the fourth day. What are we talking about? People are dissatisfied with the cost of monthly insurance payments to victims of industrial and occupational accidents. According to the Act on "Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance" such a recalculation is carried out from March 1st according to the coefficient approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The monthly rate of such insurance payments last year was 20 percent by the Cabinet of Ministers, reflecting both inflation and an increase in the average wage. At the same time, since February 20th, the Cabinet of Ministers decree of 160, which you've adopted, is 5 percent, which does not reflect the state's average wage increase, nor does it account for inflation growth. So I ask you very much to meet these people, to show them respect. The other one. Match the Cabinet of Ministers' determinations to take into account the coefficient.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u20	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u21	to include at least the average wage increase per country in the enumeration coefficient. People need to be heard. And I'm asking you very much to meet, it's not even a political requirement, it's people today asking for respect and hearing their problem. Please find a compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u22	Thank you. Please, Reva. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u23	Dear People's Deputy Semenich, when we talk about respect for people, we should mention that payments to these miners were stopped in 2014, recalculations in 2015 and 2016. And it was out of respect for these people in 2017-2018 that the government, together with the government of the Social Insurance Fund, made five calculations to these people. Since January 1, 2017, for 39,000 people, the average is 210. From March 1, 2017, for 209,000 people, for 415 bracelets. Since January 1, 2018, 169 thousand people – on 464 bracelets. From March 1, 2018, for 207 thousand people, for 514 bracelets. From March 1, 2019, for 207 thousand people, for 160. The result. In these less than two years, we've had an increase in insurance payments from 1,000,655 dollars to 3,000, 352, or twice. For victims of mining, from 2,000 51 to 4,000 597 also nearly double. In addition, I want to remind you that the bills were made at the expense of the only social contribution that we have not only on insurance payments but also on pensions. Well, on the miners. If the average pension rate of January 1st 17th was 3,000 926 miners, now it's 8 thousand 418. Please add 4597 - and you will receive a total of modest payments: the average payment to miners is almost 13,000 dollars. And I really understand who's trying through today. Taking into account the political situation, coughing up and telling them that the government doesn't recalculate miners. So I would like to point out that according to that article, 37, more carefully, Mr. Doubenkov, please read it. There.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u24	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u25	With wages, raises in the last year, and makes this coefficient. The application is made by the government of the Social Insurance Fund, which is managed by three parties: government, employers, and trade unions. And they come out of the Social Insurance Fund. And this coefficient fully reflects the financial situation in the Social Insurance Fund. There will be more revenue than the EU – the coefficient will be increased. If there's no more money in the fund, take more from nowhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u26	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Spivakowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u27	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I have a question for the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. Dear Lilia Mikhailovna, next question. We have a lot of legislation, including ministry orders, decrees, orders, and even our Education Act has this sentence: "The language of the countries of the European Union." Even pedagogical testing and so on. In connection with the passage of Brexit, you know, English may fall out of this context. And that's really serious, because we're being approached by a lot of people who claim to get the names of a professor, a professor, and so on, there, for example, it's related to B2. Please tell me if the Ministry of Education and Science is preparing the necessary legislative changes to take this position into account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u28	Greenevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u29	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, don't worry, because English is the official language of the European Union and will continue to function.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u30	Thank you. The People's Front is invited to the Medunica Oleg Viacheslavovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u31	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I was disconnected from the Content by Ukrainian television channels. Please pass the word for the formulation of the Victoria Sumar question to the head of the profiling committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u32	Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u33	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, well, really, quite suddenly yesterday it was this situation, even though we warned about it. We know that there is today a debt owed to RRT by Zeonbud, a monopolist who was artificially created in Ukraine as a digital speaker. But today we have a problem, both social and political, very serious, because, you know, the problem has been known for a long time, about this non-payment crisis, but from a week before the election, we're turning off in a series of areas all Ukrainian television, and especially on the border with Russia, where Russian analog television goes. This is obviously a very serious problem today. And I think this could be treated as an intervention in the electoral process pretty negative for Ukraine. So I have a question: what is the government planning today?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u34	You don't need 30 seconds, do you? So please, Vladimir Borisovich. Finish up, 30 seconds, Sumar. And then the answer. Please turn on VictoriaSumar microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u35	Thank you. Knowing that this is an interdisciplinary problem, though a huge request to the Cabinet of Ministers, you obviously have to be somewhere where you can get all the structures together, because there's a lot of non-payments, like from "UA: First," from the public language, but they say the government has not funded them. How are we now in an interdisciplinary format, and how can we quickly solve this problem so that Ukrainians are not without television? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u36	Please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u37	Thank you, Your Honor, Victoria Petrovna, for breaking that question. Just yesterday, I was really told that there were problems with the electricity debt. But you said that you didn't have these calculations just because the NSOs weren't properly calculated. The budget of NHRIs is today approved by Parliament, according to experts who are fully sufficient, perhaps more, to manage this media resource effectively. I'm also worried about this issue, and the government won't stand outside, although you said it right, it's an inter-ministerial problem. I've assigned the First Vice Prime Minister today, he's going to hold such a coordination meeting, and we're going to make all the necessary decisions not to do so, including for the future. Thank you for asking that question. We're going to make every effort to get it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u38	Thank you. I want to make a point, this is obviously not just a social issue, but a matter of national security. And I hope that the government will do everything possible to do its best. And as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mrs. Victoria, what I will do is I will ask this matter to be decided immediately by the Continuum. It's a border area and it's a matter of information security for our nation. Thank you. From the Radical Party to the question, Oleg Lazko is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u39	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Prime Minister, two months ago I asked you not to pay your salaries to the Odessa National Medical University team. You promised to solve this problem. The problem to this day is that 15,000 groups do not get paid. Instead, the so-called Minister of Health, which you are "breaking" gives advice on Facebook. Let her take her advice and pay the people in Odessa their wages. I was in the Pochrovsky Dnipropetrovsk district yesterday. On the way, the builders, the roadists who complained to me -- stopped by, unlike you, to the people -- they told me they didn't get paid since December. That's what you've led the country to: people don't get paid for months. I'm asking you to stop paying off the Ministry of Health, the management of the Stealthodore until the workers are paid. They pay their wages, don't they? Do they get on time every month?Oh, my God! What is the job for months without pay? A traveler, a doctor, a teacher, and so forth. Stop paying their wages until they pay off their debts to the workers and only after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u40	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u41	Thank you so much for your question. At Odessa National Medical University. On this Wednesday, the government decided to check the reasons for not paying the wages. The question is that there were certain reorganizations. Reorganizations, blocked court decisions, and this makes it impossible to make payments and sign applications. That's the first one. The other one. You said debt. I'd like to ask you to take a closer look when you're breaking a question. You go, you stop, the workers stop, they don't get paid. I want to tell you that we don't have a single amount of debt in the state for the current work, or for the work done for the capital work. We need to find out why their employers did not pay them their wages. That's the first one. The other one. You want to yell at my left ear again or what? Quiet, quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u42	Colleagues, please stop. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please stop! What are you doing? Get back to work! I'm asking you, colleagues, to go back to work. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come back. Vladimir Borisovich, I ask you to finish the speech. I'm asking you to finish the speech. And please go back to work. Colleagues! Is that what you want to do, colleagues? I'm gonna say it again. I'm gonna take a break. One more minute, and I'm asking you to hear me. Luszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please listen to me! I'm calling it a 15-minute break. In 15 minutes, we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u43	The time for recess is over, and I continue to meet with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to let you know. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me tell you, colleagues, that we are moving on to the continuation of our work. And unfortunately, I've seen the fact that there's so much contempt for the institutions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it doesn't honor anyone. And whoever's planning on making a percentage of the election is a big mistake. I now give the floor to Prime Minister Groisman of Ukraine. Please. And I'd like everyone to go back to work. If you don't come back to work now, colleagues, I'm going to stop asking questions to the government, and we're going to go to language law. Did you hear me? Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! Attention! I'm talking to Oleg Valeriovich to find out in detail what kind of car, what kind of workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u45	Croat Rajautodor, Dnipropetrovsk district Give the commission to pay people their wages!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u46	All right, here's what you're going to do to me -- and I'm going to give you a commission to do your call, figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u47	And the doctors at the university.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u48	Turn off the microphone, please. Turn it off! And stop. Oleg Valeriyovich, I ask you personally to return to your workplace. If you don't go back to work right now, I'm going to stop asking questions to the government and we're going to go to the language lines. So I'm giving you 30 seconds to make a decision. Colleagues, under such conditions, the government cannot answer. Under such circumstances, the government cannot answer. I'm asking you to go back to work. Turn on the Graceman microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! I apologize to you for not being able to answer your questions, because it is physically impossible. That's why I'll wait. I will wait until this is over, and then I will be ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u50	Vladimir Borisovich, let the government pay the workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u51	Thank you. So I want to emphasize. Attention! Colleagues who wanted to ask questions to the government, you can't ask questions right now, because the government's bed is locked. I'm underlining you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, there is now a lost opportunity for questions to the government, a lost opportunity. Please contact your colleagues with whom you took a break. So, you see the opportunity to ask questions right now, do you see the possibility? So, colleagues, there are factions left. And I'm telling you, factions now have no power to ask questions, and the government has no power to answer. So please, you can come in and unlock the government's bed, you can all get together and come up. So now it's a replica, Longhorns, one minute. Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u52	Dear citizens of Ukraine, you can see how the minister of social policy, Reva, answers. I personally address you without any claims: find a compromise. You tell me you better read article 37, and I know her better than you. I want to tell you, I don't want to offend anyone personally: let's do the law, don't put yourself above the law. This is the first time. When answering a question from a member of parliament, please show some respect. I'm not trying to address my questions to you. People are starving right now. If you are so smart and so smart, please go to them, so answer. I told you that 5 percent of the social pay census, the salary is increased by 24 percent. Give them a legitimate count, but I'm not going to offend you. And you don't have to answer that, and you don't have to be familiar, after all, you're in the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u53	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u54	I ask you to find a compromise solution calmly. You are a member of the government, please have the law - enforce the law. If necessary, if you cannot, please, we will address the Constitutional Court, but the problem of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u55	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to listen to me again right now. I understand that this is a final plenary day before the elections, and some people's a little crazy about elections and percentages are tempting and showing disrespect for the institution = the Ukrainian Parliament, for nothing, in an empty place, without any reason. I find this unacceptable, I find this impossible, I stress once again that if there is no possibility of a government coming to Parliament to answer questions from national MPs, if there is no possibility for the government to answer questions right now, I will have to stop the "hour of questions to the government" and go to the law on the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a state language. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please help me, come on. I, colleagues, can address and warn. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm gonna need you to turn on the Groisman.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u56	He's just given an assignment to the head of "Kravtodore" to deal with this debt, which Oleg Valeriyovich said. And if there is, take all measures to close it. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u57	Yes, he did.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u58	Back to your seats, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u59	I'm stressing that I said that we don't have any debt from the state budget to the regional structure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u60	The D.A. has just said he's owed a salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u61	Turn off the microphone. So please return to your seat, please return to your seat. Please take up jobs. I'd like to invite you from the Rebirth Group, Yatzenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, first of all, are glad that they have unlocked Parliament's work. I'd like to ask you two questions. I have a question first for Mr. Troyan's police representative. We know that on March 2nd in Bloody Rose there was a terrible case when a police officer named Rudenko at the villa dressed a dog and threw it into the fire. And he's still working. What's more, the whole Horn Curve Police is currently conducting a surgery to "save Private Gardenist Rudenka," and I'm so joking that they're now manufacturing a version that he was kind of protecting some of the kids that were there, that wasn't really there, and so on. I'd like you to give me a clear answer as to what's going on. And the second question is to Mr. Prime Minister Groysman. You're doing a lot of work for the development of roads, and now you're going to repair the van, and that's very good. But I would very much ask you to include road T-2403. operating costs to repair it. This is very good, bringing together many areas of the Cherka region. And, as always, I will be grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u63	Please turn on the microphone. Who Will Give?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. I don't know about this case. I will personally take control and contact you, and I will give you a clear answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u65	From "Fatherland" to "Eutshops" are invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u66	Sergeyevtushka, "The Fatherland." I have a question for the Minister of Social Policy of Reva. Andrey Alexiyovich, I'm still on the subject, the question that my colleague from Self-Help, Roman Semenich, asked. I definitely disagree with what you're saying: there's no money in the fund. To falsify elections, voters, like pensioners, you find money, for other things in the government there's always money, and there's people who are already starving, including people who have two heart attacks, strokes, you can't even come up and talk. So, I want to tell you that trust in the authorities, without exception, in everyone -- in the Cabinet of Ministers, in the Supreme Council -- is that those "ministers of the people" should refer to the people who gave them this job with great respect. You don't even want to do that -- go up to them, talk to them in person and change the coefficient that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u67	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u68	Which you've actually reduced. So I just want you to come up to these people and talk to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u69	And I'm going to remind you that the last question was about roads. If only there could be more to the answer at the end of the answer about the roadways of the question, from Yatzenka, who spoke. I stressed that the government would answer that question as well. So, Reva. Reva.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, from the first days of my tenure as minister in April of the 16th year, we began. I started working with these people. And it was the result of communicating with these people that the five calculations were made by the Social Insurance Fund for these people. There has to be a logic: if you blame us for finding money before the election for everyone, maybe if we did populism, we would probably talk. You wouldn't be asking us this question today, why don't we count it to a greater coefficient than the one approved by the government. So I want to say that we're constantly in dialogue with these people, with those who are starving. I met a group of miners on a budget committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Wednesday. Please, you can talk about it to people, and you can blame them for not having a dialogue, and it's totally not true. But what I'm saying is, we're going to look for ways to recalculate people's insurance payments, but only if we have the right financial resources. Within what we have, we do everything on our own. Last year, the recalculations were much higher than the wage increase factor, because we, with financial resources, repaid people's debts when they were stopped from increasing their insurance payments. And today, together with their pension, they have these payments double. Therefore, if we have the opportunity, we will definitely do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u71	And I remind you, there were questions on the road from Yatzenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u72	This is a question of repairs at the expense of operating costs, and I've already given the Ministry the task of processing this opportunity and informing the National MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u73	Thank you. So please record a question from the National MPs. In 15 minutes. Igor Moisiychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u74	I give the word to Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u75	Victor Galasuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Mr. Prime Minister, both you and the President and your government officials say that the country has a successful economic policy. Only with this successful economic policy will we need 100 years - 100 years! – to catch Poland at the level of investment per capita, where Poland is today. At the same time, your official macro-prognosis, where the prepared budget, for which the Radical Party team did not vote, envisions a deterioration in the country's trade balance by billions of dollars a year, to minus 16 billion, of the IMF's forecast. And this is your official data. So you block these holes with IMF loans, with other loans, you meet their requirements. You are subjected to external pressure and turn into a puppet instead of a pro - Ukrainian industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u76	Please. 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u77	Instead of pursuing Ukrainian national economic policy as suggested by Oleg Lazko and our team: raising our own industry, losing credit, providing additional incentives through industrial parks, free joining engineering networks, "Buy Ukrainian, pay Ukrainians!", extra orders for Ukrainian manufacturers, and you're playing for foreign competitors.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u78	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u79	Thank you. Thank you for asking. I can say that everything we do is done to restore economic growth. And I've never bragged about 3 percent being enough. We have to grow more: 5 plus percent, and that's a strategic goal. I can tell you that some of the decisions you just announced have room and can be applied. We're already using a lot of things, including the targeted support of Ukrainian manufacturers, creating value added inside the country. But sometimes the decisions you propose can make the situation worse, including for Ukrainian producers and for their export positions. In particular, if we give preferences to Ukrainian producers in the Ukraine market, it means that other markets will take mirror action against us and limit our production in markets in other countries. And I can tell you that if we just take the agricultural product of Ukraine, we are now represented in 190 countries around the world. And if we can, and if we are recklessly taking steps, these markets will be closed to us. Today, 43 percent of Ukraine’s production is already being realized in the markets of the European Union. So I support all the decisions that will allow a balanced development of the national economy to create added value within our country. And that's what our government is working on today. And more than that, if you think you need additional regulatory mechanisms through legislation, you know that our government and I, as Prime Minister, are ready to support initiatives that allow us to strengthen our economic development positions. So I don't have any differences here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u80	Korczyk gives the word for a question to Ungurian. Turn on the Ungurian microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u81	Thank you. Praise Jesus Christ! Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished members of the government! I would like to inform you that on March 1st of this year, there was a very powerful, large national All - Ukrainian family forum in Kiev, in which the nation’s leadership, the president of the country, the candidates for the presidents of Ukraine, even political opponents, the clergy, and representatives of all regions of Ukraine took part. And the All - Ukrainian Family Forum approached the government with the following requirements. Given the huge decline in birth rates in Ukraine, Ukraine is shrinking by almost seven hundred people every day -- every day, we need a whole state-wide family policy that will lead to an increase in birth rates, a reduction in Ukraine's terrible population, in fact, to a halt. We need: first, we need to create a central executive body to deal with these issues directly, because today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u82	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u83	No body today has a family and a national family policy. The second is to stop this sonic anti-family policy, especially through children's textbooks in the form of so-called anti-discrimination expertise. Third. You promised to understand what your subordinate Levechenko called the Kremlin's pro-family activists who voted for the family initiatives on all the Ukrainian local councils. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u84	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u85	Paul Yakimovich, I want to tell you that I fully support the affirmation of family values, and I believe that Ukrainians should be more, and there is nothing better than family forms of parenting for children. And here I am. I'm perfectly clear on this position. From the point of view of creating a separate centre or a central executive body, we are discussing this in the government today, how effective it will be. Maybe it's better to move by supporting some programs that we're finally doing. You know that the President and I have initiated recently financial support for families for the third, fourth, fifth, and so forth. And that's what we're going to do from April 1, 2019, literally from next month. We have launched a series of initiatives on support for births, and we believe that there should be more of such efforts on the part of both the parliament and the government. That is, creating more favorable conditions. But I think we don't have any differences here, and let's work. Whether the presence of a central executive body will be effective, or whether it will be another authority, which will be simply well, beautifully named, and will not make any sense of it, there is also such a risk. And that's why we're thinking about this today. Regarding the appeal, I signed the appropriate investigation recently literally and it is being conducted, and if anything is found in the action, we will lead to responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u87	And by the way, I've given the commission: I'm also going to conduct the investigation. Why? Because I'm underlining that we're on the side of the government budget with all the work we've done. As they pay down here, we'll have to figure it out. Let us consider and ask, including the heads of district government administrations and highway managers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u88	Thank you. Lapin Igor Alexanderovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u89	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. In the control of the Special Privatization Supervisory Commission, we have to get out of those points every year that relate to budgeted privatisation revenues. We heard Mr. Nephrodov's report at the meeting, and he's been briefed, and I welcome the successful start of small privatization in the state of Ukraine. Sadly, however, today we have questions of great privatization that have been blocked in the courts in connection with issues related to the competitive selection of advisors for major privatization. We can wait a long time in the courts when the issue is unblocked. New competitions may need to be announced. I have a question, Mr. Prime Minister, how are we going to achieve revenue in the budget, which is not much or little, 17 billion, how are we going to unlock the councillors' issues of great privatization? What are the government’s thoughts on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u90	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u91	Good afternoon. Indeed, we have a problem with the fact that counsellors themselves are clarifying their relationship with each other in court. It's a sad story. And of course, we would like, Ukrainian justice, it was done faster in this area. Now we're moving in such a way that we're trying to compromise their visions. Because we can't, well, it's just physically impossible to blackmail and just give out competitions to people who, well, they've got five of them there, so it's easy for everyone in the company because five of them came. We very much hope that in the near future the decision will be essentially the first of these courts, which will unlock at least half of these companies, after, there, three or four with seven, further steps. In addition, we have several companies that are fortunately not being accused. And that's where the preparation process is going fast enough. And the State Property Fund is promising to go to a successful competition somewhere in the middle of the year. In addition, according to some other objects, the evaluation process has already been announced. And we're also expecting, for example, the Pervomayan GES, that we're going to auction somewhere in the middle of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u92	Thank you. Germany Vassil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u93	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vladimir Borisovich, I would like to ask you and get an honest answer on how to be honest with the fact that you have shown your dependence on Drjedzep of the United States in clarifying the question of the continuation of the post for Kobolev. You know, I want to let you know, and that's what I've already told you personally here in this room, that there's a criminal case that's been committed, including against, where there's a criminal group involved, members of your government, about the theft of Ukranaftegazu property. We have clearly indicated that the Cabinet of Ministers owns the Ukrnaftegazu stock! Please state on what grounds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u94	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u95	Overseers, the board of supervisors solves the issue in our country when it comes to a state-owned enterprise? I mean, do you believe it was your mother who sent the money to the United States? Has it been sent to those who work there and benefit from such activity? This is unacceptable in the country. Solve the question: either "retreat the ski," or give the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u96	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u97	Thank you, Your Honor Vassil Ivanovich, for your question. I want to explain once again my position at the Oilgas. Look, so the contract that allowed you to make the payments you said about was signed on April 13, 2016 -- in one day, our government was approved. So this contract was absolutely clear, with clear terms, and it was impossible to interfere with that contract. This is the first position. Second position. Even the Prime Minister at the time disagreed with this contract, but it was made by the Ministry under the law, and I'm not arguing here. All these payments, including the numberbonus, were as good news for us as they were for us. We learned this from the media, thank God. What did we do last year? When we knew that the contract was coming to an end, I said quite clearly: I'm not interested in the name of the management, and I'm interested in the only thing: on the terms on which the contract was signed the day before our government, we're not going to continue, it's terminated. So I went to the Supervisory Board and I set three clear criteria: the first is to continue the operation of the gas transport system since the 20th year, and there must be legal, technical means to be done; the second is to achieve the goals defined by our strategy, which we have approved, after increasing the yield of Ukrainian gas, which unfortunately, in previous periods, Naftogaz has failed; and the third question is to reduce wages, eliminate bonuses and so on and so on. We corrected this proposal to the Governing Council. The Supervisory Board thought about it for two months, then gave us an answer that they were willing to take these conditions into account in the new management contract. And we were immediately asked to continue for one year, not to continue, but to make a new one, to renegotiate a new contract with new conditions, in which there are no bonuses.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u98	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u99	With no bonuses, no cloudy payments. And it can be absolutely realistic. Thank you. This is my requirement, which will be included in the new contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u100	And a final question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Danielne Vladislav Yuriovich conveys to Krivoshea the word for questions. Final question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u101	Good day, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished members of the government and respected colleagues! Vladimir Borisovich, if you remember, about a year ago we had quite an active MP of many factions in Parliament raised a problematic question about the Kozatski Hotel. After yours. Under your chairmanship, a working meeting was held with the participation of Stepan IvanovichCubiwa, Stepan Timothyovich. We discussed these issues, all of this, there was a plan of action that was drawn up to ensure that the relevant court decisions were made and that the hotel would work. For today, I'd like to ask you the following. We need to hold another meeting, because all of your assignments that you've given, they're not complete enough and they're actually stopping, the hotel's work is stopping. I mean, I'm asking with our deputies who. We have today officially asked you to join us as a group of deputies, with the participation of all the ministers of profile, to meet and discuss the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u102	Thank you for asking. The questions you asked at the previous meetings are all answered. New questions arose as I was informed by the Secretary of Defense. So I'm going to have the Secretary of Defense see you again and discuss all the issues involved. the Ministry of Economic Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u103	Thank you. Since time has not yet run out, the short question, final question, is the following. Babak's handing over Sussyenko. And that will be the final question. There was a short answer, and that's why I can do it. Please, Sissyunka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u104	Good afternoon, Vladimir Borisovich. I have an emergency medical question. All around Ukraine have seen how your government will reform this year’s emergency health care, and there are 1 billion dollars in the budget, but only five areas of Ukraine. At the same time, it's March 22nd -- and there's not even a government decision to distribute these funds. By law, such a decree should have been adopted by the government by February 1st 19th. So I have a question. First. When will these costs be allocated to these five areas of Ukraine? And the second question. What about the other 19 areas of Ukraine that receive no cash to buy new cars, to buy new clothes, to pay for salaries for health workers? People move to these five areas of Ukraine? What is the position of the government regarding emergency medical care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u105	Thank you so much for your question. We are indeed five districts and the city of Kiev piloting the creation of a new system of emergency medicine, strengthened materially and technically. We came out of the possibilities that we have in the 19th year. But our goal is to work the system in six areas, five areas, and the city of Kiev, including dispersion, the work of the system itself, the training of the fieldmasters, the upgrading of technical equipment, and the financing of wages. And in the 20th year -- we're going to put it in the budget for the 20th year -- we're going to extend it to the rest of the districts. This is only because we have limited resources and opportunities, on the one hand. On the other hand, we want to pilot a single system that we can fully implement to ensure that we already have quality emergency medicine. And we're completely systematic here. Thank you for asking. I am. I can do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u106	So, colleagues, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. And the closing word is Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groysman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u107	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, my fellow Members! Thank you for your questions. It is always important to hear what concerns the people today. I mean, there's a lot I want to say today, but I'm not going to get any worse before. You can see for yourself that everyone wants to show himself as well as possible before television. I think it'll all go away, too. That's why. No, I have to answer one question. Recently, one of Ukraine’s national deputies appealed to the government that a number of Ukrainian citizens were suffering from subsidies, i.e. no subsidies. I asked for a list of these people, and they handed them to me. Of the five three we found by name. I want to let you know. So, Eugenia Ivanovna, I'm not going to call it the Plant, the Ternopil region. So, group I disabled, there's not enough money for drugs. Officials delayed the grant document, so in December they had to pay the full price for the gas. We found this man. This is the Ternopil region, Eugenia Ivanovna, with the same name as it was called, is in the register as the recipient of the April 2015 grant. The grant for the heating period 2018-2019 was granted on 7 December 2018. As of October 2018, 852 bracelets, from November 2018 to April, amounting to 1 month-on-month 940 bracelets. Zawa, 30.10. The commission's decision is, "it's decided to assign a housing grant on December 7th." I have a grant protocol and a copy. Next. Lydia Mikolayevna, Dniproperty. She worked for 30 years as a librarian, got 1 thousand 700 dollars of pension, didn't have enough money to pay the utility, no subsidies. Lydia Mikolayovna with the same name, with the same address, has been the recipient of subsidies since 2003. 19.09. 18 people with the same name applied to the Office of Social Protection of the population of the Cartagena District State Administration for appointment. Statement 08.10. was awarded a grant for the purchase of solid fuel and cremated gas for 2018 of 4 thousand 245 bracelets, which was paid on December 10, 2018. Next. Tetjana Pavlovna, born in 1935, lives in the city of Boyarka. It was used for housing benefits of 25 percent by May 2015 including, continued to be admitted and moved to a son and now lives with his son. On 20.03.2019, she did not apply for a subsidy, which is that there is no such aid. When he does, the social services will consider it. I'm the one who set the example for these people. We're willing to process literally 10,000 people, 100,000 people, that's how many lists you give us, we'll go through each one, see how to help people, how to support them. And we don't have any differences here. Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention! I won't go on, I can, but I won't. I wish everyone the best and the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u108	Vladimir Borisovich, thank you for participating in our meeting. Vladimir Borisovich, Vladimir Borisovich, listen! I thank you for your endurance. We have, of course, a week before the election. But it's very important for the government to work systematically, effectively, as Parliament works so that the concept of those five years doesn't change and no political storms will stop us. We're gonna win! I wish you fruitful, systematic work. Thank you for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's thank the government. [[Applause]] So, colleagues, there's a statement from two factions that they're willing to replace. I give the floor to Irina Heraszczenko from two factions, "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u109	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, you know, I've been going through a lot these days, too. And Maria Ivanovna, Vasilisa Petrovna, Agrippa Vasilovna and Ivan Petrovich asked me to report to the session hall that they are asking very much for the leader to win the presidential election, not the clowns. I think it's worth supporting these correct statements by Mary Ivanovna, Agrippa Petrovna, Vasilisa Ivanovna and other Ukrainians, who are very surprised that we have 39 candidates fighting for a leader, while others are competing for a leading clown. And there are those among us who can win this nomination. Now. Iklownesses is also, quite fair, among the presidential candidates. And now a speech by the first vice-speaker about the domestic work that Parliament is going to do, which is very often giving out the task that the president and the government are going to do, at the same time, is going to ruin our commitments. Last week, a number of key laws that the Ukrainian army, Ukrainian Donbas, and Ukrainian business were brought down in the dust of this electoral tsunami, which led to parliament. In particular, it's the Standardization Act, and we haven't changed the Mine Action Act or the Military Names Act. And actually, I really want to thank my coalition colleagues, from the People's Front faction, first and foremost the Solidarity factions, others, for the opposition even, who joined themselves to make these weeks that the halls are working on the second reading of the Law on the Functioning of the State Language, work, and today will be registered in Parliament three very important laws that have been broken. The first is the Anti-Discrimination Act, which will allow our donors to unlock the issue of cooperation between trust funds on mine action programmes. The second is a key law: to amend some of Ukraine's legislation on military duty and military service, which will actually help create an active professional sergeant's corps and to gain Ukraine's Armed Forces compatibility with the NATO Armed Forces. This is actually this bill right over here. And I thank Mr. Savca, Mr. Gerasimov to the other Ukrainian people's deputies who have worked on this bill, that we are moving, not in a word, but in action, towards NATO standards. And the third, very important law -- here, first of all, I want to thank my colleague Krivoshi -- who was overwhelmed by Parliament, but worked by factions of the coalition. It's an economic agreement, in fact, about an association that will allow us to achieve standardization for our medium and small businesses and make it easier to go to European markets. That's what the Ukrainian Parliament is supposed to do these weeks, not work in a frenzy. Thank you to all who work for the Ukrainian people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. And we're going to consider the draft Law on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language (No.5670-d). I invite you to the rostrum of the First Vice - Chief of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, through Irina Yuriyevna. I'm reminding you that we stopped at the 1281st Amendment yesterday, 1218. And I invite you to the words of the author of the amendment, Mr. Germanko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u111	Since we've changed our report on the bill, I'd like to put it in support without counseling or interventions. To give an opportunity, if no one has listened, then I leave the right to investigate. If a plenary session is under way and a bill is being adopted, I would like to listen to those subjects of the legislative initiative that are the national deputies of Ukraine. That is why I would like to report to both the rapporteur and my colleagues that the draft law is to no avail to any extent or to any extent related to ideologies regarding the protection of rights, language rights in our country, which are defined at European level.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u112	Please comment, Mrs. Gorgeous.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u113	Thank you. The speech and comment of the honourable colleague do not apply in any way to amendment 1218. This amendment actually sets out the procedures to be followed by a committee of national language standards for conducting the examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u114	Thank you. Please be determined by this amendment, Your Honor. [[11:29:04]] For -8 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is the National MP, Mrs. Boyko, 1219. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, 1220. It is suggested in part two of article 45 that the words "National Commission of Public Language Standards" should be replaced by "Ukrainian Centre of Quality Assessment of Education". The committee proposes that this rule be made variable. That is, the commission may delegate the authority of the examination to the level of national language and/or to the examination of the results of the examination to a specially authorized state institution (organization) which conducts an external independent evaluation in accordance with the Education Act of Ukraine. I propose making this standard mandatory and leaving the Ukrainian Center for Quality Assessment as one who is able to conduct such exams. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u116	Please identify yourself for Amendment 1219. I'd like to make a statement. Colleagues, we're literally taking a couple more amendments, and then we're moving on to making a request under the Rules. Please, 2019. 1219. Thanks to Mr. Lašek, we have a whole session room that is not entirely satisfied today. [[11:30:24]] For-9 Please, next amendment. Your amendment is not accepted, my dear colleague, it has not obtained the required number of votes. 1220 was the Editer of Scrapnik. It's partially accounted for. Debenko's asking for her word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u117	Thank you. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, one of such innovations of the bill is the creation of additional state bodies that oversee and develop Ukrainian language standards. The drafters proposed that the National Commission be created with Ukrainian language standards, and the author of the draft would like to change the name accordingly. But as for the substance of this innovation. In a country that lacks funds, Reva, the Minister of Social Policy, says, to count those affected by occupational diseases, to create additional government bodies and to allocate additional funding to those bodies that do not actually have any practical value, it is not appropriate. So I'm asking you to put this right here for confirmation. In general, these innovations are viewed as anti-government because the state does not have funds. There is nothing to create additional public authorities to finance them in order to justify their existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u118	Thank you, And please make a brief comment, Mrs. Gorgeous.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, we hear a lot of these in this room, how would you do the Law on State Language, so that you don't do anything and keep the status quo. This is an absolute constitutional right of the Ukrainian Parliament to create a new system, new institutions to ensure the existence of Ukrainian language, not to mention development, and functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this amendment was partially taken into account. I'm putting her, at the request of my colleague Dolženkov, in full measure. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:32:36]] For -6 Correction. We're moving on, colleagues. But right now, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we have 30 minutes to make inquiries, and we have to do so before the break. So thank you, Mrs. Podowak, and now I'm going to go to the polls and remind everyone that we're going to start our work next session Tuesday with amendment 1221. 1221. I would also like to inform you immediately that our break will be announced at exactly 12 hours, because there will be an extremely important mine platform in Parliament, with the participation of Ukraine's representative in the tripartite contact group Eugenia Marchuk, who will make important statements. I invite all the participants, the deputies to this platform and the media. I also have to be there as a participant in the Minsk talks. At 12 o'clock. And at 12:30, there'll be a recording of the performance in the "Rizzle" section.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u121	So, honourable colleagues, today, there have been questions from. 217 MP requests, and I want to announce them all now. From Viktor Razwadowski to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District State Administration to assist residents of the village of Veliki Derevich in the Lubarsky region of Zitomir district of Bahurinska Nina in carrying out the operational treatment of Elena’s daughter in 2007. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Defence for the use of land in the garrison No. 84 of the village of Lake Zitomir district, the Zitomir region owned by the Ministry of Defence. Victor Romanyuk to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, head of the Kyiv District State Administration on the systemic facts of the conversion of the Kyiv District Administration into a destabilizing body in the Kyiv region. Eugena Dejej to the head of the Kyiv District Council, the head of the Kyiv District State Administration, for an improper response to a parliamentary request regarding the status of compliance with the rules of law, including ensuring the implementation of the constitutional rights of citizens by the local self-government of the village of Lutiz of the Visgorod region of the Kyiv region. Eugene Deja, deputy head of the National Police, chief of the Department of Economics, head of the Antimonopoly Committee on Violations of Local Self-Government Authorities of the village of Lutíž of the High-Golden Region of the Kyiv Region of Ukrainian Legislation in the Field of Economic Competition, with designated performer of services for the export of solid household wastes without a competition. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister on the inaction of the management of Odessa District Administration and the city of Odessa in resolving internally displaced persons in housing and in providing them with social protection. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister, Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Head of the Board of Auditors, Henprocurorate on the involvement of officials of the Ministry of Health in the results of the audit of the Court of Auditors on the effectiveness of the implementation of the "Implementation of Health in Human Services" project on the functioning of the electronic health system. The Gennady of Chekita to the Odessa City Head on the allocation of funds for objects located in the Malinov region of Odessa during 2014-2018. Michael Bondar to the head of the National Police Department in the Lviv region, head of the National Service Department of Ukraine, in exceptional situations in the Lviv region, the prosecutor of the Lviv region, for investigating the causes of the roof damage and for testing the quality of the roofing work at the Brodiv School 2. Michael Bondar to Henprocuror with regard to the extension of criminal proceedings concerning Greenewich Roman (Radehiv district of Lviv region). Mr. Andrija Nemirowski to the Prime Minister for reports on the mandate of the Prime Minister of Law Enforcement Services concerning the alleged increase in pension payments and the illegal spending of budgetary resources, as well as the need to recalculate previously appointed pensions in connection with the increase of the corresponding categories of military personnel, persons entitled to retirement under Law 2262-XII, as of 1 January 2019. John Sporish to the head of the Zitomir district government regarding the location and functioning of the Zitomir district of the industrial combination for the non-exhaustive processing of solid household, other municipal and industrial wastes. Alexander Granovski to the Prime Minister for the transfer of the dormitory to Rustaveli, 11, the city of Kharkiv to the municipal property of the territorial community of Kharkiv. Jacob Besbach to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Commissioner of the Supreme. The Council, excuse me, of human rights, of the National Police, of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine for the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Sergey Labazuk to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice, the Chief Territorial Administration of Justice in the Hmelnitsk Region to address the issue of a dead inheritance. Sergey Labazuk to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Health, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice for Rural Population Services. Groups of National Deputies (Ptašnik, Rizanenka, Ednaka) to the Minister of Internal Affairs on criminal conduct, which was violated as a result of the events in Kiev and Chernig on March 9, 2019. Vitalia Kupriya to the Attorney General on the inaction of the procurator of the Kyiv region of Kirichuk Maxim and the lack of consideration of the petitions of the Ukrainian national deputy. Vladislav Buharev to the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy, Prime Minister on the need to review the conclusions of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources from an environmental impact assessment of the state forestry enterprises in the Suma region, to part of the constraints on their economic activities and to clarify the legal grounds for banning all types of edges within the framework of the prospective design of natural-ordered funds. Victor Krivenk to the Attorney General for a lengthy criminal investigation. Igora Guza to the Prime Minister on the need to allocate the budget of the city of Novovolinsk additional grant to the public budget of expenditure for the maintenance of education and health facilities and for the consideration of the proposals of the Novovolinsk City Council relating to the reform of the secondary health facility chain. Igor Guza to the Minister of Education and Science on the need for funding (based on educational subsidies) of a sanatorium operating at the Volin Regional Children's Anti-Tuberculosis Sanatorium "Zgorani". Maxima Burbak to Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure for the allocation of funds from the State budget for the renovation of the aircraft and landing strip of the International Airport "Chernovci" named Leonid Kadenuk. Groups of Nardeps (Krulka, Soboljeva, others) to the Prime Minister, the Head of the BSB, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General for the commission of illegal actions of the Agroinvestgroup, the illegal possession of grain and the task of damage to farmers in the Lubashiv region of Odessa. Gregory Nemiri to the Foreign Minister for Pressure and Obstruction by a Fellow of the Consulate General of Ukraine in New York - Consul Kastrán Miroslav Mironović in the work of the commission's head from a candidate to President Timoshenko Yulia at the U.S. Foreign Office (No.90090) Christian Sluługski. Igor Kotwiecki and Mikaly Knieżicky to the Minister of Culture, head of the Kyiv District Government on the need to preserve and restore historical monuments in the territory of Kyiv region (Majetok von Mecca). Igor Kotwiecki to head of the Kharkiv Road Service in Kharkiv Region on road conditions in Kharkiv region. Groups of Nardeps (Layer, Mosiyczuk, only 13th) to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the use of measures to respond to the failure to provide assistance to the sick and to discharge professional duties by medical personnel (art. 139 and art. 140 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine). Jury Bublika to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General, for improper consideration by the law enforcement agencies of the parliamentary inquiry about the inhumane avoidance of alimony payments by Artem Mochalovi, his failure to take action to bring him to criminal responsibility and the existence of corruption in their actions through family relations. Vasil Guljava to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds from the State Budget Reserve Fund in the first half of 2019 to the City of Black Sea Odessa in order to carry out anti-removal work in the area of Housing Microregion No. 9 and to complete the construction of the bridge crossing through the Dry Lyman. Alexander Gerega, Andrija Shinkovič, to the Prime Minister for systematic violations of the rights of persons released from military service to adequate pensions through non-compliance with social insurance legislation. Helen Matuzko to the Head of the High Council of Justice regarding the use of disciplinary measures and the legal assessment of inappropriate treatment of her duties and the result of her introduction. Indictment by a panel of judges at the Kyiv Court of Appeal, composed of the presiding judge Gabriel, Judges Heidi and Polosenko. Nardepi Groups ( Novinsky, Sakka and others; only 5th) to the Minister of Interior, Henprocuror for the restoration of the rule of law in the city of Mikolayev during the presidential election campaign, providing for an objective, impartial and full investigation into the incident involving a radically-arranged incident in the city of Mikolayev on March 19, 19th, of the campaign tents of candidates for the President of Ukraine, the attack of radicals on the female agitator and the infliction of serious bodily harm on her. Andrea Illenka, head of the Permanent Commission of the Kiev City Council for Budget and Socio-Economic Development, head of the Kiev City State Administration for the renovation of secondary education schools in Kiev City No. 224. Andrea Illenka is acting as Director of the Department of Transport Infrastructure of the Kyiv City State Administration, head of the Righteous District in Kiev State Administration, head of the road service in the Kyiv region to resolve the conflict between the carrier and the inhabitants of the village of Bykovna. Vadim Krivochatka to the Head of the State Audit Service on the possibility of committing corruption in the purchase of waste materials for renal dialysis in the Zaporozhye region. Vadim Krivohatka to the Head of the Supreme Court for violations of the terms of the case. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, the head of the government of the Public Stock Exchange Society "The State Saving Bank of Ukraine", the head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the non-closure of the PAT Savings Department in the village of the town-type First-Travensk Baranov district of the Žitomir Region. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, Minister of Interior, on the process of transferring the parishes of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church (Moscow Patriarchate) to the Orthodox Church of Ukraine. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy on the need to regulate the mechanism of granting grants in cash to some types of the population. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Prime Minister on the need to improve the State Program of Endoprostetics. Sergey Ljowczyn to the Prime Minister on the deepening of the crisis in the transport sector. Irina Herashchenko, Maria Ionov to the Minister of Social Affairs for the implementation of the pilot project for the delivery of a one-time natural aid package in the Donetsk region. Dmitra Špenov to the Prime Minister regarding the allocation of additional grants between the local budgets of the Dnipropetrov region. Andrya Lopushanski, Michael Doubbenk to the Head of the Nazcomisi, who regulates national energy and utilities regulations for the provision of natural gas commercial nodes, which are set up in institutions and organizations funded by government or local budgets, by means of remote data transfer. Andrija Lopushanski to the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, Lviv Observatories for urgent measures to repair the premises of the Turkov District People's House in the Lviv region. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Affairs, to address the issue of social benefits to internally displaced persons. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister, Defence Minister, for the payment of one-time cash assistance in connection with disability and on the basis of a court decision. Irina Konstanovic to the Minister of Infrastructure for the Restoration of Social Justice in the Paying of Work for AT "Staff". Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister for providing children of war with State social guarantees. MaximaBurbacado, Head of the General Directorate of the State Fiscal Service in the Chernivecki region, acting as Head of the Chernivetsk observatories for not allowing the closure of the sugar combination "Kristátík" in the village of the town-type Kostriszivka Zastavnivska district of the Chernivecki region. Artura Martovitchko and Igor Šurma to the Prime Minister, the head of the National Police, the Attorney General on the failure to comply with the Ukrainian Law on Emergency Medical Care by officials of the Ministry, which led to the death of journalist Svetoslav Sekunova. Artema Witka to the Prime Minister for the actions of the PAT "Poltawaza" regarding the illegal use of state and municipal property, which resulted in significant losses to the local budget. Anatolya Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the repair of Sahnovščina - Krasnovlovka and Lozov - Twins in the Kharkiv region. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Minister of Infrastructure on the Status of Strategic Buildings of the Dniprowe Cascade. Mr. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy, for the correct calculation of monthly insurance payments. Boris Kozir, head of the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office for the conduct of the verification of the construction of the TV "Investment and Construction Company" according to the illegal construction of the entire housing complex "Abortion" in Kiev, and the use of response measures in accordance with the requirements of the current legislation of Ukraine. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the allocation of funds (subsidies) in 19th year for the capital repair of roads of utility in the Tarsatian region of Kiev. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District Council for the allocation of funds (subsidies) for the capital repair of social infrastructure objects in the Skurir district of Kyiv. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the Ministry of Health to amend its normative acts in connection with the introduction of the Ministry of Health Mine Economic Development Order of Ukraine from February 15, 190, No. 259 of the profession "Plastic surgeon" (CP 2221.2) to the National Classification of Ukraine" and to develop a standard of higher education with the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for the preparation of specialists for the specialization of Plastic Surgery. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the review of proposals for amendments to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' decrees of 23 August 2000 No. 1336 on the enforcement of article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on the application of accounting transactions in the field of trade, public nutrition and services and of February 7, 2001, No. 121 on the time-limits for the transfer of business entities to account for cash and cash-free transactions through the application of accountancy registers. Alexander Kodola to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine regarding the urgency of repair work on the Chernobyl highways. Alexander Kirsza to the head of the National Police Department in Kharkiv County, Kharkiv City Head, for the cessation of illegal night race in the parking lot of the Ashan supermarket on the street of Heroi's Works, 7 in Kharkiv. Helen Matuzko of the Attorney General’s Office on the use of disciplinary measures and the legal assessment of inappropriate treatment of his official duties as Prosecutor of the Kyiv Local Prosecutor’s Office No. 8 Chernichenko, acting on behalf of the State of Ukraine, pointed out in the official document of the public authority openly false information that undermines the authority of the law enforcement system among citizens and has an effect on the authority of the State. Vadim Yvchenk to the Prime Minister for the protection of labour rights and the guarantee of employment of employees of the Ingula Mine of the State Enterprise Eastern Mining and Enrichment. Dmitri Lubinz to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the pretrial investigation of a criminal case involving the theft of the Ukrainian Reserve by Alexia Leluk. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers for an additional grant to maintain the education and health facilities of the Mirgorod region. Ruslana Demczak to the head of the Vinnick district government for the provision of bullet and knee joints to the inhabitants of the Vinnick district. RuslanaDemchado Prime Minister for Amendments to Cabinet Order No. 848 of October 21, 1995. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Motor (Transport) Insurance Office of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Fiscal Service, the National Commission, which regulates the state's financial services markets, the Ministry of Finance regarding possible violations of insurance legislation. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister on the need for amendments to the Ukrainian Minister's Decision No. 867 of 19 October 18 on the approval of the Regulation on the placing of special duties on natural gas market entities to ensure the common interest in the functioning of the natural gas market. Alexander Villukla to the Prime Minister for the provision of the recalculation of pensions to military pensioners in connection with the decision of the Kyiv District Administrative Court of 12 December 18 on the recognition of unlawful and invalidity individual provisions of the Cabinet of Ministers of 21 February 18th, No. 103, and the provision of funds in the State Budget for Ukraine for 2019 for the increase of pensions for these persons under the current legislation. Alexander Villkull and Constantine Pavlov to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy for Social Protection of Disabled Persons of Work, and a fair count of the monthly insurance payments made in the event of an increase in the previous calendar year of the average wage applicable from 1 March 19th to 1,248. Sergey Rudik's temporary duty to head the State Geology Service and nadr Ukraine to obtain permission to use the nadrama for the purpose of extracting the bold utility VodGeo underground waters of the Smilyan Falls. Jury Lewchenka to the Head of the State Service of Ukraine from an emergency situation, Head of the Police, Head of the Kiev City Administration, on the immediate displacement of the residents of the emergency house No. 52 on Dmitrovska Street in the Shevchenkov district of Kiev to prevent disaster and to protect the lives and health of citizens. Jury Levchenk to the head of the Kyiv City Administration for the capital repair of apartment building No.35 on the street of Sichov Sagittarius Shevchenkov district of Kiev, which is a monument to architecture and the construction of local value. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Social Policy, Minister of Public Health, Minister of Public Health, Head of the Equality Authority for the implementation of the State Programme for the Financing of Sanatorium and Health Institutions for Persons affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister for the drafting of a bill on child-friendly justice. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Education and Science, acting as head of the Montenegrin Ombudsman for the gross violation of the rights and interests of receiving children raised in the Assembly family by teachers of the Kitzman Educational Institute I-III. Jury Bublika to the Human Rights Council, Commissioner for Human Rights, Henprosecutor for the violation of the rights of a suspect for prolonged detention without a warrant, failure to carry out reasonable investigations, failure to ensure an objective investigation into a murder suspect in the absence of evidence of his involvement in a crime. Paul Kishkar and Victor Krivenk to the Head of the BSC for the introduction of information into the Single Register of Judicial Investigations. Victor Krivenk to the Minister of Justice about the raiding of property. Ljubomir Zubak and Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister for the annulment of the Cabinet of Ministers order of April 11, 2018 No. 240 "For the approval of the composition of the hospital district of Lviv Region". Irina Suslowy to the Defence Minister for the appointment of military posts for officers who may be replaced by female military officers approved by an order from the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine dated 20 June 2012 No. 412/SK. Irina Souslowy to Henprocuror, prosecutor of the Dnipropetrov region, for the prosecution of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office of the United States of America for criminal investigation, initiated on the basis of the evidence of the crime foreseen by the 2 p.m. 149 KK Ukraine "trafficking in human beings". Anna Romanova to First Deputy Prime Minister of Economic Development on State Policy in the field of tourism. Anna Romanov to the Minister of Education and Science for the provision of three-stage training for tourism professionals. Oleg Osuhovski, Deputy Head of the Supreme Council Committee on Agriculture Policy, Prime Minister, Acting Head of the State Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Head of the President’s Administration, Acting Minister of Agrarian Policy, Head of the Volin Authority for the Implementation of Land Transfer Plans for United Territorial Communities. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister, Head of the President's Administration, Minister of Interior, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, National Security and Defence Council, Attorney-General on the situation of corruption surrounding the State Enterprise "Hark Transport Equipment Plant". Leonidas Hamtsa to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the long-term ineffectual solution to the issue of the quality repair of the entrance group of the residence on the street of Nemirovica-Danchenka, 5 in the Pecher district of Kiev. Sergey Lechchenka to the Prime Minister on the situation of the construction of a school in the Poznaki microregion, 4 and 4-A in the Darnicki district of Kiev. Sergey Lechchenka is under the temporary responsibilities of the head of the Poltava observatories regarding the situation of repair work in a residential building on the first level in the city of Kremenchuk. Gregory Times' temporary duty to the Head of State Geology and Nadr Ukraine, Minister of Ecology, natural resources to take urgent action for the speedy renewal of the "Hope" permit for the use of Drama No. 3988 of 9 August 2006 with the aim of extracting the coal of the Cup family and making appropriate changes to this permit. Borislav Bereza to the Prime Minister for the illicit sale of municipal property. Roman Semenha to the Director of the Department of State Architecture and Construction in Kharkiv County, Kharkiv City Head for the Stopping of Unsanctioned Construction Works. Sergey Kaplan to the Chief of the Bridge Border Force, the head of the Western Regional Authority of the State Border Service, to provide information on the incident with the public activists at the Cheggini Pass. Groups of Nardeps (Spivakowski, Herashchenko, Ionova) to the Prime Minister on the use of measures to improve the prestige of preschool, extra-school, general secondary, vocational (professional and technical) education. Sergei Vlasenka to the Attorney-General, Deputy Attorney-General, Head of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for blocking the judicial investigation of corruption schemes by the Ukrainian Attorney-General in the area of defence, with the participation of DK Ucroborinprom and the enterprises of President Peter Prashenk of Ukraine, his immediate environment. Sergia Vlasenka to the Attorney General for sabotage by the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine in the falsification investigation of Peter Prashenko's presidential election, which will take place on 31 March 2019. Michael Golka to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Attorney-General for the conduct of a check by the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities on the facts of serious violations in the work of the PAT "National Social Broadcasting Corporation of Ukraine". Michael Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science, head of the Ternopil Authority on the need to maintain a network of out-of-school education facilities in the Ternopil region. JuriyaTimoshenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the legality of the removal of property within the framework of criminal conduct. JuriyaTimoshenka to the Prime Minister for the non-admission of illegal alienation of the land of the state enterprise. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister, head of the Wynnick district government administration for the provision of a disabled child with hearing problems with the necessary medical devices. Jury Bereza to the Prime Minister on the need to consider the suspension of the duties of the head of the State Service of Ukraine for the work of Cherneg Roman in connection with the violation of legislation in the conduct of the "B" public service vacancy tender. Igora Lucenka to the Head of the State Migration Service, Head of the Nutzbank, Head of the BSC regarding the application of article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens to the citizen of Gontareva V.O. Igora Lucenka to the head of Kyiv City State Administration for immediate response measures aimed at returning chestnut trees as a symbol of Kiev to the main street of Ukraine’s capital, Khreshtick Street. Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the catastrophic condition of Ukraine's N-23 and N-11 motorways. Alexander Companion to the Head of the Supreme Council on the need for the continued fulfilment by the Head of the Supreme Council of the requirements of the Rules and the Law of Ukraine "On the Status of the People's Deputy". Alexandra Companion to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. on the issue of the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the non-compliance by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the requirements of the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. ConstantineJarinica to the head of the Kirovograd district government for the creation of an automated air monitoring system in the Kirovograd region and the town of Kropivnitsky. Igor Alekseieva to the Prime Minister for the repair of the road cover of the road general use of the state value T-10-21 Kyivskilce. Igor Aleksiev to the Director General of Kyivtodor, head of Kiev City State Administration for the repair of the road cover on Kosenka Street in the city of Kiev. Victor Vuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the uncontrolled and purposeless use of state property, which is anchored in the National Academy of Sciences and Branch Academys, and on the reform of the organizational system of scientific activity in Ukraine. I'm going to continue the session for one minute. Ruslana Solvara to the head of the Kyiv District Public Administration for the allocation of funds from the district budget to provide adequate sports equipment and inventory of the Jury High School I-III graduated from Kiev-Svetoshin district of Kiev. Ruslana Solvara to Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration, for the provision of financial assistance to the family of the invalid warlord for the repair of the apartment and the provision of adequate living conditions. Robert Gorvati, acting as Head of the State Fiscal Service, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Minister of Internal Affairs, Attorney General, for the violation of customs legislation in respect of the customs of goods. Andria Shipka to the head of the public shareholders' association on gas supply and gasification of Dnipropetrovskgas for the use of Dnipropetrovskgas PAT for additional gas accounting to consumers using coefficients. Eugene Balitsky to the Head of the Board of Justice, Head of the High Council of Justice, Henprocuror for the facts of the criminal activity of an organized group in the territory of Zaporozhye. Groups of Nardeps (Balicko, Shurma, Germany) to the Head of the SBU, Henprocuror for the unlawful actions of employees of the SBU Authority and the Procurator's Office of the Zaporozhye Region in relation to the company TV "Melitopolski Slippers Factory". Irina Herashchenko, Maria Ionova to the Prime Minister for the use of additional funding measures to secure the payment of energy supplies and the payment of salaries to staff in the education sector of the Berezan district of Mikolai region. Edward Matviychuk to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Veterans and Persons with Disabilities, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Cultural Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Pension Fund, the Ministry of Justice regarding the review of the appeal of the resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa Zjuny Svetlana on the use of measures to commemorate the 75th anniversary of Ukraine's liberation. Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Henprosecutor's Office on the review of the appeal of the "Ti El Si Service" labour team to the enforcement of effective legislation and the restoration of violated rights. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for the refusal of commercial accounting for natural gas by the gas counters installed in the public building. And Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister about the cancellation of pennies for the untimely payment of residential services. Dear colleagues, I have announced all 217 requests that have been registered at the Supreme Council of Ukraine for this time. Now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. And at 12:32 sharp, we're going to have time for the national MPs to speak on a variety of issues. Thank you, everyone, and I remind you that the Minsk Platform is about to take place for the participation of our representative in the tripartite contact group Eugenia Marchuka. Everyone who participates in this platform, on the third floor, is asked to visit because there will be enough important statements and reports about the situation on Donbassa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, back to our work. I'm asking the people's deputies -- all those who intend to participate in the discussion at the Miscellaneous -- to go into the hall and prepare for the recording. Please hold the recording. There's been a malfunction in the "Race" system. Now we're going to re-record. But, fellow nationals, you know the rules. Someone's not in the hall, I'm in. I can see with my glasses, yes, I can see who's in the hall, and I remember your names. So please do not push other people’s buttons. Please record. I invite you to speak to the people’s representative, Derevyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u123	This is the first time this has ever happened! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainians! Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. Yesterday. yesterday, Attorney General Yuri Lucenko claimed that the United States Embassy would be providing a list of the untouchable, or people that the Office of the Attorney General could not prosecute. And the embassy, of course, refutes all these words of the Attorney General, but in fact it is a huge disgrace when the godfather of one of the presidential candidates makes such statements ten days before the election. And the Attorney General doesn't make these statements on time, when it's like the official person of a foreign state is doing it at a time when it seems to have happened, and he's doing it right in front of the presidential election. It's not enough that the prosecution of an ambassador who directly points to extreme corruption in the Attorney-General's Office, and this is the Attorney-General's response to these charges, in my opinion, is the answer to this corrupt system from the United States Embassy to draw attention from what's really going on in our defence sphere: from all the tools and looting that are taking place in the vicinity of Prashenko, President Prashenko, in Svinarczuk, to all his other dear friends who are now stealing from the Ukrainian army. Dear colleagues, this is also happening in the background that we now have very clear signs of preparing for the constitutional coup. Yes, it is the signs of a constitutional coup d'état that replaces the will of citizens in elections to take power in an illegal, unconstitutional way. Because all the "nets" of the voter bribes that are currently being prepared in Ukraine show that the authorities are preparing carefully. This is also evidenced by the fact that CEC has not been able to purchase boxes in which they are supposed to carry VAT tickets to the KLA, which means that all the possibilities are being created for the release of ballots on this chain. This means that it is possible to falsify an election, which means that it is possible to substitute protocols and create protocols. It is not enough that the vast number of technical candidates from Peter Poroshenko today creates conditions when most KLAs and KLAs are controlled by President Poroshenko. What does this scenario mean? This means that in CBC, if it's going to keep counting more than a day or two, that means that this scenario is possible. If we see the inadequacy of counting votes on the district election boards, and also on the KLA, that means that this scenario is also being implemented. If we're going to see the presence of so-called "Petrovitches" on the KLA and DVC, it also means that this scenario is being implemented. So, honourable Ukrainians, let's all stand together to defend our constitutional rights and freedoms, let's not take any possible risks, even for the constitutional coup d'état that the authorities are preparing today, and let's do so as to drive these people away and select worthy new candidates who can change the country in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u124	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the people's MP, Mr. Martovicsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u125	Dear citizens of Ukraine, I would like to draw attention to the disaster with the pension provision of military pensioners, which is increasing year after year. Half a million former military personnel are mostly officers, and a third of them are soldiers' widows, living in poverty because the coalition government refuses to pay their pensions in full. When these officers carried out their military duties, they were needed by authorities, and today they receive beggarly pensions. Note the long-awaited indexation of pensions, which was praised by the coalition government as its own reform, the military pensioners in 2018 managed exclusively by mass protests and blocking the buildings of Parliament, the government and the President's Administration. Promising to index military pensions since January 2018, the government in February has significantly reduced the basis for recalculation, in fact to the very salary without additional payments, thus making the promised increase minimal. But to avoid paying for it to the full, he introduced a stage: 50 percent index in 2018 and 25 percent index in 2019. This illegal rule was brought before the court last December by military pensioners, and on March 5, this year, an appeal was also won. Let me draw your attention to the fact that the appeal was filed by the government, not in agreement with the court ruling of the first instance on the immediate payment of the full amount of compensation. The government tried its own citizens, half a million former military personnel, refusing to comply with their social obligations. And that is the attitude of authority toward the people today. According to the Court’s decision, the State is obliged to recalculate and pay compensation to military pensioners as of 1 January 2018 to the fullest extent and taking into account all types of financial security: basic, additional and one-time. But would the authorities execute this court decision if it ignored hundreds of thousands of court decisions won by the military in a court against the Pension Fund? The Opposition Block registered a draft corresponding to Decree No. 10164 of 20.03.2019 on the provision of pensions to military pensioners, which the Government is obliged to bring into line with the above-mentioned judgement its normative acts, and to conduct an immediate recalculation of pensions to all categories of pensioners who receive a pension under military law. I'm calling on the government and the President to execute the court's decision and pay all the costs. I also ask the Prime Minister to instruct the ministers of social policy, defence, internal affairs, justice, the Security Service and the Ukrainian Pension Fund to immediately start recalculation and payment of pensions. Please consider my statement as a request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u126	Thank you. Next. Before you know it, I'd like to invite the National Deputy Bondar. Please. Unfortunately, there is no MP in the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u127	Good afternoon. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency, Shipyard. Bushina, Kamenecina, and Radehovščina I was approached by the guardians of the Radehova district, the Radehova district administration, to provide additional housing for orphans. As of March 2019, there are 10 orphans in the Radehiv region who need to improve living conditions. In 2018, at the expense of state budget subsidies, local budgets for projects, construction and repairs, housing and other forms of family and other forms of education that are close to the family, and housing for orphans, two orphans from the Radekh district were provided with housing. As a national deputy of Ukraine, I am approached by guardians and caregivers, as well as by the Radekh district government, asking for help in solving the problem. In view of this, and of the fact that the needy orphans in the Radehiv region are reaching adulthood and are left homeless after completion of their studies to prevent them from being homeless and to help secure their fate, please, within the scope of their competence, give appropriate authority to study the problem and consider the possibility of disbursing from the state budget an amount of 3.6 million dollars to provide ten orphans from the Radehiv district of Lviv. I'm talking to Prime Minister Groysman, Minister of Social Policy Andrey Reva. I'm hoping for cooperation and I'm sure this problem will be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u128	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the people’s representative of Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u129	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. Dear colleagues, a respected Ukrainian society! Traditionally on Friday, I am trying to take advantage of the opportunity to speak out of this high rostrum in order to convey the major problems of the district that I have the privilege of representing in Parliament. And this is Hutzulščina and Poečina, a land that I think has a huge economic potential for its development. It's primarily tourism, it's woodworking, it's agriculture, it's animal farming. And unfortunately, I have to say that these prospects for development are largely unmet with infrastructure. Yes, indeed, in the last few years we have managed to make a significant breakthrough in the area of restoration of state importance. This is also the course of Ivano-Frankivsky – Chernivci, this is the ijablunov – Kosov, and Kosov – the top, and Kosov – the corner. But besides that, I have to say that this is clearly not enough. And today, those major transport highways of national importance that would allow for a boost to further develop this powerful region, unfortunately, are in a disgruntled state. And I want to stop, especially in the most problematic parts of the country, the roads of state importance, which in most cases have already been turned into non-travel parts. This is a section of the P62 Voricht Line, the Supreme, and, in particular, the Krivopili Pass. I have asked several times, including from this rostrum, the need to restore these 15 kilometers of this vital route for the recovery of the entire region. Equally important is the Xone Route: 39 kilometers of this road requires immediate recovery of at least the most problematic areas that make it impossible to travel on this road, especially since the road connects two of the largest district centers in the region. At the same time, there is a road in critical condition, the Seine-Tazov road, which is also a road of national importance, a road that also connects several district centers, and a road that unfortunately is not in satisfactory condition. That's why I'm not just turning to this rostrum, and I'm asking the DMV in the Ivano-Frankow region to immediately re-establish these main transport arteries of Gutzulsk and Poequity, because these are the roads of state importance, their unsatisfying condition, making it impossible for them to develop this affluent and affluent region. Please make my statement in the form of an official MP's address and give an answer in the time frame established by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u130	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Igor Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u131	Good afternoon, dear friends! Igor Lucenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Last night, we learned with great surprise and great sadness the news that in the capital of the European country, Ukraine, the Kiev authorities were unable to preserve the Kiev symbol, the Chinese chestnuts. For many Chinese chestnuts, this is part of the history of our city, the memories of childhood, the symbolism that has clearly combined with the fate of our capital, Kiev. Nevertheless, in 2019 more than 54 billion dollars were budgeted to the capital, the Kiev authorities were unable to preserve these trees on Kyiv’s central street, Krestátík. It's a nonsensical thing, it doesn't make sense at all. And the only explanation for this is that Kiev's services, the Kiev City State Administration is working so well that it is not able to coordinate the actions of its various departments, its various departments, in order to concentrate on saving these extremely valuable and beautiful green plants, which have always served what the Chinese are proud of, is Kiev's pride. And we need to understand that there are different factors that are currently in Europe, and especially in Kiev, they are destroying chestnut plantings. It's also a moth, it's also a reagent who's pouring roads to melt snow, it's, of course, air pollution. And the situation in Kiev is that in order to clean up the air, one service has to work; in order to work and purchase the right reagents for melting the snow, another service has to think; in the end, Kyivzelenbud also has to take care of the right kinds of trees that, as these chestnuts, have to survive in these difficult conditions. This is all to be summed up in one point, but unfortunately, the Kiev authorities are unable to do so. Accordingly, I believe that as the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is looking after, of course, the honor of our capital, the pride of our Kiev, we must address this issue because there is no other way out. And I would like to invite all of you to attend the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee on Tuesday 14th, which is corruption destroying green plantings in Kiev, is going to be a round table on this issue. We will invite all the experts, all the KMDA officials, and together we will decide how to end this disgrace. Everyone, let's participate, let's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u132	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the Galasuk People's Deputy. Ah, the People's Deputy Vuka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u133	Victor Wolf, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Honourable Ukrainians, President Prashenko is imposing on you a myth of the effectiveness of his foreign policy and of his seemingly irreplaceable international arena. However, this is a great lie. Dustenko and his Ministry of Foreign Affairs were merely sailing through events and wasting historical time and opportunities. As a result, Ukraine today has very weak international positions — mostly as a demeanor. Since the beginning of Russian aggression, Oleg Lazko has offered alternatives that have been ignored or implemented with great delay. In February 2014, the Supreme Council initiated negotiations on the Budapest Memorandum of Safeguards for Nuclear Powers. And in April 2014, the Council adopted a regulation on support for the Geneva negotiations with the US, the European Union and Russia, which explicitly prohibited any international discussion of the constitutional system of Ukraine. However, when he became President, Poshenko immediately "drown", gave up both Budapest and Geneva formats and agreed to a very unfavourable Nordic for Ukraine with the participation of the pro-Russian France and Germany, instead of the nuclear-guarantee states and the EU. And then, under pressure from France and Germany, he agreed to the treacherous Minsk Accords, particularly with regard to the changes to the Constitution on special status for Donbas, thereby grossly violating the ban on parliamentary decrees initiated by Oleg Ljashk. Other examples. The introduction of UN peacekeepers to Donbas was proposed, including by the leader of the Radical Party since autumn 2014. In March 2015, the Supreme Council approved an appropriate appeal to the UN Security Council. However, Prašenko raised this issue before the international community only in September 2017, wasting 2.5 years. Or break up the Friendship Treaty and a strategic partnership with the aggressor state of Russia. Oleg Lazko passed the corresponding bill in 2014 on the day of the Crimean pseudoferendum. And Dustenko decided to do so almost five years later, six months before the presidential election. At last, we're on our way to NATO. In November 2014, the representative of Prašenka Vitali Kovalczuk, now head of his electoral headquarters, broke the signing of the Coalition Agreement, demanding that the NATO route be dropped. And only the principle position of Oleg Láška preserved this position in the covenant. And four years later, before the election, Prashenko proposed changes to the Constitution. Dear Ukrainians, you can't waste any more time. We need a strong leader and a strong Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u134	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u135	Dear Ukrainians, last Wednesday, March 20, the whole world was celebrating the Day of Happiness. Each one of us understands this day in his own way. For someone it's a family, for someone it's a wealthy country, for someone it's a peaceful sky above the earth. But for the people of Smiling, the Stones, the Church of All Happiness, it's simple things. It's to walk along the roads of the hometowns, on the roads of the villages, on the roads of the neighbourhoods, and not leave the wheel, and not leave the last seals there. Yes, it's banal, it's trivial, but we're talking about Europe, and we're dreaming about getting there at the minimum cost for health and for our vehicles. Colleagues who were involved and lobbying the creation of the State Road Fund, and I was among the authors of this bill, perhaps remember how the government fought for two years in a row, with all hands and feet, so that the fund would not be created. He said it was a special fund that required some extra expenses. We cannot separate money from education, from science, and give it specifically to the roads. But then this fund was created by our insistence. And what happened? And what happened happened was what was always happening. They say revolutions make one, you know who, and they use another. It's the same with the road fund. Now, it turns out that the Groysman government has created this fund and is dividing the cost of roads. And what happened? Unfortunately, it was once again trivial: of the 55 billion dollars that this year have been diverted throughout the country to the roads of national and local importance, the Smilian, Kamyan, and Cherkas regions, at least the part that falls within my 198th constituency, received as much as one tenth of this road fund, one tenth of the 55 billion. So it seems that those who designed the government’s money - sharing project cut out the Freezing Land, the city of Smilu, and the Smilian region off the roads. There's two roads of national importance through the city of Smilu, and they're de jure roads within the city, and that's why they're called utility roads, but they're de facto state roads: N01 and N16. Just this week, just after the protests and the insistence of my colleagues -- and I'm grateful to the city authorities of Smiley, who came to stand up for the right of braves to the road -- we managed to stand up for it. The only thing we're going to do this year, and thanks to my insistence, is the End Position on the Road Fund, which is 20 million dollars on the road from Smila to Teklin, this is the road N16. What about the rest? I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u136	Ten seconds. Ten.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u137	Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the government. It'll be mid-term, there'll be a redistribution of funds, don't divide people by others.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u138	I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u139	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. The citizens of Ukraine, I'm addressing you because, unfortunately, in the hall, the people who make decisions about our internal and external policies, and this is a coalition, there's nothing to turn to, because out of the 302 people who were in 2016 and formed this coalition, there's probably not more than 10 people in the room, that's the maximum. I'll call you with the information. Does he today have the right to demand from a Ukrainian citizen, an average Ukrainian citizen, any national MP? Does he have the right to demand a minister? Does he have the right to request an official who is a representative of the government that was formed by the ruling coalition "European Choice"? Probably not. You know why he doesn't? If senior officials of the state of Ukraine do not comply with the law themselves, do not comply with the law, they have no right to appeal to people. Each of us can be a potential patient, and everyone knows that the quality of treatment, including treatment, depends very much on the mental state of the doctor. So we know that there's a cardiosurgeon known to be Boris Todurov's cardiosurgeon. Look what's happening to him. The coalition proposed a new employment formula for management positions. Following all the terms and procedures, Todurov was elected unanimously, in the presence of representatives of the BP bloc and many others from the coalition who were in the elections. At the time, documents were submitted, and documents were sent for special inspection. The man went through a background check and filed papers with the Ministry. In accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Science and Technology Act (art. 9, para. 4, para. 12), this person is a monthly person. I had to make a contract with her. This contract has not been concluded for three months. That's what you think. Is the heart in a normal state of psychoemotion? I think it's crazy. Who gave officials from the Ministry of Health three months to fib with Todurov’s appointment and contract with him? And most of all, you know what's amazing? National Anti-Corruption Bureau. The Ucrobanprom is no longer being investigated as to how much, and the Todurovo test has been scheduled and asked to be given within a three-day period. These people today are discrediting power and discrediting the fight against corruption. Instead of assigning Toddurov, there is another abnormal process in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u140	I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u141	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear Ukrainians, dear friends! A few weeks ago, I informed you of the terrible situation that the Ministry of Social Policy was responsible for. What are we talking about? For three months now, there has been no funding for the Artek Children's Centres and the Young Guards. What are these centers, and what do they do? These two children's state centers are engaged in providing services for the recovery and rest of orphans, children from multi-child families, children from low-income families, and children from combat actors. As a result of the lack of funding for these two centres, there is a threat of the same state programs that will allow these categories of children who either have no parents or even if they are, as a result of the genocidal policy and government programme that is taking place today, they are unfortunately unable to provide opportunities and provide their children with basic opportunities for their recovery. The following week, due to the failure to pay salaries to the employees of the children’s centre, the debt of electricity, and the fines, these institutions may cease to operate. Therefore, the Radical Party, led by Oleg Lášk, demands that the Ministry of Social Policy, the current government stop these terrible abuses and experiments on children and immediately restore funding from the state budget of these two child centres, and that the taxpayers' costs go beyond the financing of the President’s electoral fund, which has already increased its assets 80 times, and this is only for official information so that the taxpayers’ costs do not go to the space wages and bonuses of government officials, is not clear for what, but for them to work to preserve the health of our children and young people. The whole country sees that some government workers are the least concerned about where Ukrainian children will be healed and whether this will ever happen. Because both these officials and their children are cured and treated, unfortunately, not in Ukraine, and some are even citizens of other nations. But this does not mean that a cross should be placed on Ukrainian children. Oleg Lachak's Radical Party team won't let you do that. That's why we've been able to allocate funds for the state program for repairs, reconstructions and construction of new waterborne complexes in Ukraine for 2019 so that not only business centres, gas stations, commercial complexes and so forth can be created in Ukraine, but that we can create conditions that will stop the mass extinction of Ukrainians and the multimillion-million-dollar migration that is taking place today in our talented and educated nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u142	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Berezu Borislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u143	Ukraine is increasingly becoming a country that does not want to deal with its problems. Why? Because those who should take care of them are being put away. For example, in my district of 213, there was a new problem in Troas, a problem that was caused by the efforts of the city's administration, district administration, and law enforcement. What's going on? Small markets that sell food are closed down and demolished, and large gambling pavilions are built — 800 meters, 2,000 meters, and game pavilions, leaving money for people who want to increase their wealth when they return from work. Unfortunately, they can't do it, then they try to play, they go home, they carry everything, everything, almost everything, they leave in the pawnshops that are near these casinos, and then they go and, I'm sorry, they're committing crimes because they don't see another way for themselves. There's a growing criminogenic situation in the area, and it's getting worse. There are movements in the area that no one likes, except those that build these playgrounds, except those that "break" these playgrounds and those that give permission to these playgrounds: the district administration, the city administration, and the law enforcement agencies that don't notice these playgrounds. Maybe they're not there, or maybe they have some kind of blindness temporary when they're at these playrooms. But the only thing I can see right now is the indignation of the people that the Trinity and all of Kiev are turning into a mini Las Vegas. And people ask me, why is this happening? Perhaps because no one wants to regulate the matter. Since January 21, 2015, a bill has been submitted to Parliament under my authority entitled "State Gambling Regulation". And he can fix the situation. There are other bills that can also influence. But Parliament doesn't want to look at it. Probably because there are people in Parliament who aren't interested in it because they're getting their profits, and that's billions of dollars. Not millions, not hundreds of millions, billions of dollars. And that's why I want to say that either the state will deal with this problem, or there will be a mass rebellion when people put up with these institutions. I'm in charge of the law. So do not encourage people to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u144	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Ostrikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u145	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians. Since there are literally days left before the presidential election, I think we should look at how much power is spent on hidden and indirect electoral bribery. And starting here is worth paying the pensioners. These are the lump sums paid to the budget by the owners of the Euronomists on their customs arrangements. For some reason the President was present at the meeting, how to win these 8.6 billion dollars, although this is a meeting at the Pension Fund, which is subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers through the Minister of Social Affairs, and to what it would seem here, the President. So these 2,000 410s will be paid in two equal parts: the first will be paid in March -- a thousand dollars, and a thousand dollars will be paid in April. So the first payment before the vote, and then after the vote, the second thousand, after the vote. This is going to get 2 million low-retirement pensioners. And I think we can talk about this thousand as we used to talk about "Julina's Thousand." Now they call it "Five thousand." Another form that can also be viewed as an indirect bribe is the payment of subsidies with living money. So the big one, the big one in the paws, the coincidence that 4 million households are going to get 1.5 thousand dollars in cash right before the election. And as long as experts argue whether this will increase the debt of utilities, and whether it will lead to the economy of our consumption of heat and other energy, people will get this money lively and will be able to vote. The next know-how is giving material aid to the Turbot program. This, by the way, was claimed by the minister of the interior. In Kiev, Odessa, Kharkiv, and Kyiv areas, the headquarters are targeting socially vulnerable people and offering them material assistance in exchange for their vote. If a person agrees, he is listed and is provided with material assistance by the branch office. And another similar scheme, also on the same subject, is once again about the preface of a thousand bracelets. This has been done in district councils to redistribute the budget, to cut costs to schools, stadiums, hospitals, and again to provide material assistance. Why am I talking about this right now? Because no movement -- honestly, the resistance and so on, that's what's going on in the elections -- is somehow not noticing these huge billions of dollars of violations that are being committed by valid authority in order to preserve themselves in power. Some small things, if not the location of a commercial design or not, are unfortunately looking for a crust in the eye instead of noticing such a huge fish and huge disturbances. Along with the law enforcement officers, who. The U.S.S.A. considers self-help advertising and Gardens a threat to national security without seeing the massive bribe schemes that are taking place.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u146	10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u147	That's what happens under her nose. So I urge all Ukrainians to come to the elections and tie your voice to your happy life for the next five years in Ukraine without corruption or oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u148	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a communication with the President, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence for the restoration of the military hospital in Novograd-Volinski. The arguments don't work in any way, even though we see it in the outside advertising -- it's a beautiful word, Armia. So, in Novograd-Wolinski, this is originally a military town, 4 military units, the total military population is over 4,000. If you take military veterans, war veterans, even military pensioners, it's another 5,000. It is mobilized during events known only to the city and its surrounding areas of 2.5 thousand people. 248 died, 1 thousand 300 injured and disabled, almost 8,000 of them being part of the fighting. Until recently, a military hospital was in operation. He's been covered. Addressing the hospital, the room is, everything is necessary for that, got answers: in the 18th year, in the 19th year, and now in the 20th year, if there's money. The question is, how much more will it take to make a donation, and how much more will they steal in order to predict the cost of restoring the hospital? The last answer I received, says one Ukrainian politician, is, "Always responds to the defiant and deserves to be read." In the Novograd-Wallin garrison, I quote: "The military parts of A0409, A3814, A2925, A2076, the structure of medical units with NATO standards that are fully capable of providing the necessary medical care for the individual warehouse." Primary medical care. What about family members, and what about those who have been released from service, and almost 8,000 of them, I said? True, in the end we get another reference: "Referring to the Reform Act, one therapist for 2,000 people, and calm down, we're not going to do anything to you." Please tell the presiding officer, at least once you have given the commission to carry out an analysis of how they are being carried out or how they respond to parliamentary requests! The Supreme Council's been turned, I don't know what. The answer is usually signed by the tenth deputy, although the one to whom it is addressed should be answered. I demand that we answer in terms of how this problem will be resolved positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u150	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u151	From the parliamentary rostrum, I want to draw attention to this woman, to her safety, to her fate -- Svetlana Podpala, an activist from Odessa, one of the many Odessys who struggles to keep their city a beautiful pearl in the composition of Ukraine, which, in particular, stands for the preservation of the Summer Theatre -- an important place for many Odessy who want to build now, to turn into a trading, sales and offices. You all know how hard it is for the Odessa community to stand up for their position, their city. Direct responsibility lies with the Attorney-General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the President of Ukraine, who failed to investigate any attack on any Odessa activist, to punish those who committed these attacks and organized them. In Odessa, there are no people who do not know who did these attacks and who organized them, but the central government of Ukraine has decided that in exchange for the cover-up of the bandits, it will receive their support, the votes in the elections and other support. This is a terrible calculation that neither Ukraine nor Odessa nor those involved in these operations will benefit. But today, while in the country of Henprocuror Lucenko and while President Poshenko, I wanted us to protect this woman and all the other Odessa. We want you to know that you are not alone. We are in many cities concerned about your fate, watching your affairs, and warning potential attackers, not creating a new story about Catherine Gandzück's death, don't touch people. Ukrainians are still building power -- it's in our blood, it's in our rules. And those who today feel unpunished can quickly find themselves on the bench of the defendants. Do not take such a sin upon yourself. Thank you again, Svetlana, and all the Odessa for standing firm. We're with you, and the Protective Initiative that we're doing just to make sure nothing happens to you will always come to your aid.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u152	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Golovka. Oh, I'm sorry, Semenha, yes. And the next one is Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u153	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit, Kharkiv City. Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians! Today, by my statement from this rostrum, I want to draw your attention to the problems of the destruction of the historic architectural heritage of Kharkiv, which is actually happening under the silent consent and promotion of the State Architectural Inspection and, unfortunately, the consent of the local authorities. Quarkishte is one of the leaders of historical and cultural monuments, but architectural masterpieces are rapidly declining and are unfortunately being destroyed. In Kharkiv region, 937 local sites and 34 national sites are registered. Rather, they were preserved, not because of their efforts, but in spite of the activities of the local authorities. At present, in Kharkiv, there are not even basic things as bases for the preservation of the historical heritage of the historic architectural base of the city. The main causes of the destruction of such monuments are the absence of banal things: a security contract and a banal response to the violation of standards for the maintenance of historic buildings. In most of the buildings, the owner’s security agreement with the authorities is not signed. The result: Over the past few years, Kharkiv has lost more than 20 large historical buildings, and they are damaged enough to meet the criteria of architecture, in fact they have already been lost to the city of Kharkiv. Another reason is the total violation of standards for the maintenance of historic buildings. DABI’s improper reaction and the ignoring of many of its regulations by the building’s owners lead to the fact that instead of reconstructing it, they are making a complete reconstruction at the site of past historical monuments and are not, above all, responsible for any of this. And the last example that I want to tell you about in this rostrum is the fire in an old house with a deck in the center of Kharkiv itself, which is the next result of this non-economic activity of the local government. This is a historic building in the center of Kharkiv, built in the 1950s. It used to have the largest book store in Kharkiv on the first floor. Instead of guarding such a monument, local authorities passed it over to the first floor and put it into private hands. Now there are 4 food establishments in these rooms. Despite the historical value of the building’s basements, construction work is constantly being done, bearing walls, foundations, and other things being destroyed. Inhabitants, more than 800 of them, claim permanent arbitrary and unauthorized interference and changes in engineering communications. A state-owned architectural and building inspection has issued a warrant for the halting of these construction works, which the owners of food establishments are reluctant to comply with. At the end of last year, DABI carried out a check and issued an appropriate prescription: to stop any construction work immediately. The reaction to it is, unfortunately, zero. For the numerous calls of the residents of the house to the local authorities, the answers are zero. Regrettably, the ruins of the historical monument continue in the historic center of Harkov. I demand an immediate response from the State Architectural Building Inspectorate, the District Attorney’s Office, to the violation of the law on the protection of history’s monuments. Stop pretending nothing's happening. I think the district attorney's office should use all the appropriate ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u154	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u155	The district attorney’s office should take all necessary measures to stop the destruction of historical monuments in Kharkiv. Sadly, the helplessness of local authorities has led to an absolute consumer attitude toward the historical heritage.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u156	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Golovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u157	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Dear colleagues, I'm driving, I'm talking to Ukrainians, and I want to say that the good half of the Ukrainian people today hate our authority. Do you have any idea what the evil half of us are willing to do with this power? I want to say that what happened this week in the Cabinet of Ministers is another humiliation of the Ukrainians, a spit in the face of the Ukrainians, it's a wipe-out of the Ukrainian people. The fact that the government of Groysman had gone to the insolent official of Koboljev and had cancelled the competition and continued his contract. This is another confirmation that this power and this government do not stand for the position of the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian people. This person, the so-called Kobolev, who is now a swindler and is writing out space bonuses, wages, has led to the fact that, according to a report on Derjaudit service, he had a controlled firm called Ukrattransgas, which is a controlled enterprise of NAK Naftogazu, suffered a loss of 24 billion in the 17th year and almost 30 billion dollars in the 18th. This is more than 50 billion dollars in government damage under the so - called Kobolev, a young reformer. In the end, we see what the authorities are doing with the contracts. For not increasing natural gas production? For not having an energy efficiency program? For causing damage to state enterprises today? Including Skrnafta, it's been damaged by NAC Naftogazu's government for over $5 billion. These are the 8.4 billion cubic metres of gas stolen today, which has been proven illegally stolen in the Crimea. So we can see that by conscious steps, by NAC Naftogaz, by the leadership of Kobolev, by the state, by massive damage, by large reserves of gas are being stolen, by state funds are being washed away, by space premiums of 1.5 billion, by wages, and then by all the funds are being transferred to offshore accounts to their relatives. And no reaction on the part of the law enforcement system. Refusal to violate criminal cases, refusal to bring those criminals to justice, and the government of Groisman covers all of this, has once again gone to the obnoxious official. Stop putting up with those cobow-pigs that have grown up in Naftogaz today, who are gaining our economy today. Ukraine loses its competitive edge in international markets. Ukraine will be transformed into a raw state, where there is no job creation, where Ukrainians are making profits because the government is currently running criminal politics. Therefore, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union requires the immediate removal of this person from office. The law enforcement agencies are asked to open criminal cases for illegal bonuses, for illegal payments, for thefts at NAC Naftogazi, for thefts at Ukratransgazi and other state companies, and to bring this Swinarchuk to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u158	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Moseschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u159	Igor Musiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. During the last month, Oleg Lášk and I visited the city of Piratín, Grebinka, Kremenec, Zbaraz, Ternopil. This is Ternopilska, my native Poltashtina. And everywhere, people are just groaning, people are on the verge of poverty, poverty, where this government of impotents dumped them. And when our faction led by Oleg Lášk went to the government to demand that we not continue the contract with criminal Koboljev, who robbed the Ukrainian state for 1.5 billion dollars, and 1.5 billion is Kamaz, the samosvala, yes, with the bitter, the money, the 84-year-old pensioner from Boyarka, who walked with us, was protected. We weren't allowed to do that, and the contract was extended in a bad way. And the contract says: 500 thousand dollars of Cobolev's salary in one day. One day! It's because people make ends meet, they don't have bread. Just now there was an hour of questions to the government, where Oleg Lazko was beaten up and our team was obliged to pay Odessa University paramedics a salary, to the highway workers. In the land of chaos and anarchy. The Marauders in Defense. The law enforcement agencies are at war with each other: the National Police, the National Police, the National Police, and the National Police. Nobody. He's already breaking his leg in law enforcement. No criminal, no corruption. That's why Oleg Lazko, our team, is demanding right now, realizing that in a week the country will have a new president, to take away diplomatic and service passports in Kobolev, Suprun, in the leadership of the Defense Prome. Don't let them get out of the country. The Ukrainian Security Service should prohibit the departure of officials from the country for a period of election so that after the elections, the villains who robbed the country would pay the taxpayers back to the state budget. If this does not happen, those who will release thieves from the country will sit and answer, those who helped rob Ukraine. And Easy guarantees it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u160	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the speech of the People's Commissioner of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u161	Ivan Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. For me as a national deputy, right now I'm saying, this is how a man from a village who lives permanently in a village and never lived in a city, except for work in Kiev, you know, I'm surprised by the savagery that we have today in the Supreme Council, this populism that is in the Supreme Council. I'm surprised by the Prime Minister's endurance today. In fact, he showed endurance today as a statesman, as a person in charge of the country, and he really behaved fairly, and showed a culture, I think, unlike others. I think we should not speak from this rostrum today for populism, I would very much like to tell my constituents to all the voters in all of Ukraine not to watch TV at all until March 31st. Today, we should speak for Paul Greeb, who was given six years of age, and today television should speak for this; we should speak for Eugene Marchuk, who was today interviewing and speaking as he was in the East; for the OSCE is not allowed there and so on to see the truth in our country. Today we must speak for our captors, who today are truly, 24, in captivity. And I don't think any of the national MPs, even those who are currently yelling from the hall, today they didn't come to the table and write a letter to our sailors, but they're talking more about what they're doing, that's our misery. And I think we should give all the support to our sailors and write them a letter of support that they will come to us and return to Ukraine. Today we should not speak from this rostrum for populism and elections, but for the Crimean Tatars who are suffering today, for the Crimea, who today are truly patriots and are experiencing this Russian regime. This, unfortunately, is what we're saying, because it's not as bad as you'd like to hear. We today have all the opposition factions that are on the Supreme Council, they all gave us pessimism: that's not the case, everything is gone. We have no optimism. I know more than that, I'm more confident, and so respect all of our voters, people from the village, people from all over Ukraine, that we're actually more made positive than negative. And just like the Cabinet of Ministers, who did more and more, and just like the President, who did probably more than all the presidents. Sadly, though, we find it interesting to criticize those who work. Today we should not criticize those who work, for those who work make mistakes, and these mistakes should all work together, not jump out here. I think before the election to the Supreme Council we should, I don't know how, but when the election to the Supreme Council, we have to ban this populism in the Supreme Council at all. I also wanted to say a few more words that you and I should talk about what we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u162	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u163	We must accept this room today, and there is no way that national MPs can vote so that farmers can manage the land outside populated areas. We have this populism.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u164	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the People's Deputy of Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u165	Andry Lózova, Radical Party of Lazka. "And everything in the world needs to be survived, because every finish is essentially a start. And it is not necessary to do magic in advance, nor to weep in the past," wrote the great Lina Kostenko. Lina Vasilovna celebrated her birthday for days, and I thought of pride with such a grand thought as the great Lina, living at the same time. What pride it is to live at one time with those who defend our independence on the front. And what a shame it is to live in time with the kind of authority we have today. When Parliament allocates an unprecedented amount of money to the Ukrainian army and instead. They've got five tanks of money, and they've got one on the front. And what he's stealing from the Poshenko army and its surroundings is a torn-off arm, it's a torn-off leg, it's a mutilated people coming back, better, better from there. And when the authorities tell us how good it is today, ask them at the hospital, ask them in the village, ask them at the farm, ask them. You don't know how people live, you live in a parallel reality, and you're totally taken from life. And your authority still needs to come to an end, for the country is tired of you. Tired of the terrible poverty, tired of the mess. Ukrainians need order, worth living, and confidence in tomorrow. And our team, our leader -- the people's president, Oleg Lazko -- has the power and will to bring order to Ukraine, has everything to enable Ukrainians to live decently, to have jobs in Ukraine, to have a decent salary, to have a pension for which they can live, not to survive, to have quality and affordable medicine in the country, and not to the way that the Suprun wants it today, to be tariffs that people can pay, not like today, when millions of Ukrainians just don't know how to survive with such cloudy tariffs that the government does not even get a subsidy. And when the authorities tell us how good it is, and they say there is no optimism, the coalition representative has just spoken. You know, people really don't have the optimism that millions of Ukrainians just don't know how to get kids to school, how to buy drugs that have empty refrigerators at home. Optimism will be, and hope will be, when Easy and order will be in Ukraine, and it will be worthy of life, not as it is today, to which you have led the country. President Lazko is a full refrigerator for every family, President Lazko is a job for every Ukrainian, not for him to go abroad in search of a better fate, to which you have led, President Lazko is the protection of Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian education, it's an accessible quality medicine, it's a moratorium on closing hospitals and FAPs, it's a return of benefits to black people, Afghans, other pollen categories, President Lazko is an order in Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u166	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Nichiporenko. You don't, do you, Nothing? The national deputy of Yemen gave him the word Blood. Please, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u167	Thank you. Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Today I'm going to give my speech with a few questions. I'll start with our local Kiev issues. I would like to welcome all the Chinese and guests of our capital with the fact that, finally, 10 years later, the work moved away from the site of the question of the reconstruction of the Bortnicka station. The residents of Borovarov and others from Borispol to Kiev understand what they are talking about. The question of the reconstruction of this station, which is at the gates of the guests of Ukraine and the capital to Kiev, well, this question of honour was for our state and for our famous city. But what was the opposite? Even money and resources for reconstruction were found. The biggest external investment in the Japanese government world was in Ukraine. A billion dollars, a billion dollars is needed to rebuild this station. Of course, there was no such money in Ukraine, as there is no money today. But our friend Japan is willing to do a reconstruction of the Bortnicka Station at its own expense and, in fact, their only requirement was not to steal that money. And in the days of Yanukovich, well, this requirement was taken as being unacceptable to the project, and the Japanese said that we wouldn't play any percentages on corruption and just refused to count that money. The government of Janukovič left five years ago, and these five years have been hard work to convince the Japanese side that the situation around the reconstruction of the station has changed, the costs will all go to reconstruction and a number of safeguards have been put in place, namely, the Japanese side will control each stage – both project work and physical reconstruction. And for today, well, I'm happy to say, today Kiev has announced a competition for the start of physical work from the reconstruction of the station. So we can figure out what the job is. Why am I talking about this not only as a cyanide but as a leader of a group of friendships with the Japanese Parliament? For the past five years, we have worked hard and hard to implement this project. At the level of the Ukrainian Parliament, this was a work of both legislative changes, including tax-specific changes in the possibility of involving these funds, as well as working with the Ukrainian government and with the Japanese government, to make sure that that level of guarantee of non-corruption in this project, well, will allow us to be sure that the Japanese party's funds will go to reconstruction and not just us, but also the Japanese, who are extremely difficult to convince in this matter, and they approach physical implementation only because there is absolute confidence that there will be no corruption in this process. So once again I welcome the Chinese and guests of our capital. This process has gone. I welcome my colleague Vitalia Stasuk, who is surrounded by this common urban problem (I would say, a national problem), and he was directly involved as a deputy, my deputy manager of a group of friends with Japan, as a deputy in the district of this station, in this project. And we see that there's already a real effect from our work, the reconstruction begins. The time that will pass for reconstruction, well it won't be one or two months, but the work has already gone, it won't stop, so it's certainly so local, very pragmatic, but our common victory is that we have a European space on our way to Kiev and for the Chinese to smell the fresh air, and we're inspired by the smell of the sakuras that were planted in Kiev now to feel the sneezes full. Now we move on to another part of our question, actually, to how effective Parliament is. This is not just about the traditionally absent MPs today in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. Friday is a demonstration of what the Ukrainian Parliament really is, how responsible it is, and more specifically, it's a demonstration of irresponsibility and unprofessionality, when instead of working on laws, we're given a daily order every Friday, which consists of drafts, well, we can only say first that the electoral system and the work of Parliament need a fundamental change. But let us go back to the Language Law. It's been a month since we've been working on this law, and three weeks since he's been listening to it in the walls of the Supreme Council. I'm not going to open a big secret -- you can see this from the speeches of the deputies of the Ukrainian Parliament -- the political will for today that this law should be passed before the presidential campaign is completed, there is no. Some presidential candidates may fear that it will turn the East away from them. But we can only point out the fact that these three weeks of parliament has been promoting activities. These are millions of bracelets that could be spent on vitality. Our work, it's millions of dollars that our citizens pay in the form of taxes, including those that receive today's subsidies and are on the verge of poverty. These are millions of dollars that are actually spent in nothing. Because we see how the head of the committee here is in a situation where he's had to answer for a few weeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u168	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u169	The stupid questions he's been asked. And their goal is not to improve the law, and so on, their goal is just to delay the process and lead to the completion of the electoral campaign to discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u170	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Laishka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u171	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, you've seen how this morning we almost had to block the cabinet in order to solve the basic issue: pay off months' wages, especially for the 15,000 Odessa Medical University and road workers from Pokrovsky and other areas of Dnipropetrovska, who have not received a salary since December. The Prime Minister first claimed that there were no debts on the salary, then called the head of "The Stork" -- it turned out that there were debts on the pay. After that, he was commissioned to pay off those debts. This history of debt laundering for working people shows one obvious truth for every Ukrainian, except for power: chaos, mess, and anarchy in the country. The power of impotents, who doesn't know what's going on in the country, the power of impotents, who doesn't control a situation that has led the country to a complete mess and a mess. And the heads of the Ministry of Health, which is subordinated to the Odessa National Medical University, and the executives of Ukrautodora, who are subordinated to Dnipropetrovska and other areas that have not been paid for months. These managers receive millions of wages each month and receive them on time. I am absolutely sure that we must stop paying their wages until the debts are closed and change the law. First, pay the wages to the workers and then to the managers, and not the other way around, they're going to have millions of wages, billions of bonuses, the workers of the months pay nothing, their children and their families don't have anything to buy a piece of bread, and the authorities tell us how it's going well and how they've solved all the problems. They live well at the expense of the Ukrainians. They crawled into each other's pockets, robbed them, robbed them for five years, and now a month before the election, they're mimicking poverty. The pensioners were promised to add, and mothers and children were promised to add, and others were promised to add. Whose account is it? And whose account is all this dating? I'll tell you whose account it is. They're giving pre-election taxes so he can rob for the next five years. That's why I'm talking to the Ukrainians. On March 31st, you and I will be able to change everything: clean up this rotten swamp, darmoids and impotents that cannot protect people who are unable to carry out economic policies in the interests of Ukraine and in the interests of Ukrainians, so that people can make money in their own country so that they don't go abroad. On March 31st, you and I can change everything when we come to the polls and we pick, we throw out, we clean up this swamp. Today we're being lied to, sociology is being hung up on the ears of a liar, manipulations, high ratings in Dustenka, high ratings in others, and what low ratings in Laszka. Dear Ukrainians, I want to tell you, in the 14th-year election, I was told: 8 places and 3 percent ratings. Ten days before the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u172	Six minutes, please. Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u173	Ten days before the election, false sociology was published. Ten days later, in the 14th year, I sat in third place with your support. And in these elections, we're going to take you first, because you can't keep living like this, leave the country in that situation of chaos, the mess that is, you can't. We need to keep order: hard, fair, persistent. You see how I fight. Show me a politician who can do this to anyone — the President, the Prime Minister, anyone. Show me who's gonna bite their throats for you. Show me who in this country, except Lyashka, will tell the truth for you. Nobody. Because, first of all, they don't care about your interests, and second of all, they're afraid. They have neither the character nor the nerves of steel nor the ability to tell the truth. I've got it. As I've arranged them today, and before, that's how President Easy will manage them. They're all in power to fly like rotten wreaths. I won't let you get robbed, I won't let you lie, I won't let you get paid, and none of them will get paid until the workers get paid. What's more, I'm going to put the pay order in order. What is it? They're continuing the contract with Naftogazu's head, and he says, "I can't pay back a billion and a half dollars of the prize that Kobolev paid." I have a question: why do you need to if you can't stop the robbery if you can't get the money from the offshores back to where they put it; if you can let billions of them steal from the pensioners, the children, the disabled, the orphans, the workers, the many children? Billions of them are stolen, offshore. And he spreads his hands, says, "I can't." Porridge can't, Groissman can't, someone else can't. So why do we need you if you can't? So you and I have a chance to change, to bring to power those who can and know how to restore a strong economy, a strong country, to overcome poverty. New jobs, salary increases, pension recalculations, fair gas prices, the restoration of state control over drug prices, food for the negligent, and the setting up of order in the country. They can't -- we can, me and my team. We know that it is necessary for Ukraine to clean up this rotten political swamp, to bring order, to unleash all these darmoids, and to give the country a chance to develop, to get off their knees. Today's government policy is a policy of raw colonization that deprives Ukrainians of the future. We offer a different policy: development policy, strong economy, new jobs, poverty victory, increased income for every Ukrainian family, and order in the country. Stop demeaning us, stop bullying the Ukrainians! March 31st, we're chasing them away.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u174	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Kirsche.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u175	Alexander Kirsch, Kharkiv. And again about "Natoza," and again about Koboljev. Everyone knows about his millions of wages and billions of bonuses. And if the government continues to contract with him, then all the disgrace that lies on Kobolev now lies on the government of Ukraine, on the prime minister. This is not to be assumed, nor is it possible to continue the contract with those who write millions of wages and billions of bonuses for such tariffs. Besides, isn't it clear that Naftogaz is a state company? If this is a public company, then why is it such an unlimited mandate to head this company, as if it were its private company? Very many powers have been delegated by the State, delegated by the Government. The Naftogazu and Naftogaz leadership abuse these powers. If Naftogaz is a state-owned company, if what it decides is built on state-owned gas oil resources, it cannot be as self-sustaining in this organization as the government of Ukraine gives it. And most of all. There is still a monopoly of certain oligarchs on gas production in Ukraine due to the fact that the rate of rent on gas production in Ukraine is 70 percent on a shared basis. 70 percent of total revenue, 70 percent of total cost without any cost. I mean, what they made, of that 70 percent, but not of income, not of income, but of that amount that came into the account. Of course, under such conditions, no investor wants to invest in Ukrainian gas, no Ukrainian enterprise wants to acquire gas, because it is not yet known when a gas is being developed, whether it will be gas or not, and if there is any revenue, it should be given 70 percent without taking into account the costs that have been spent on what did not make any profit at all. So 70 percent is a rate that artificially preserves a monopoly that artificially prevents the development of a Ukrainian gas industry that is artificially incapacitated from extracting Ukrainian gas and is thus artificially preserved by the monopoly of gas oligarches. Ukraine takes second place with regard to gas in Europe, but this second place is not to be used because no one is comfortable with such tax conditions to obtain gas in Ukraine, depending on the rate of 70 percent. It's just a tax crime that needs to be stopped, and according to my law, which is not being considered by the Council, this rate has to be substantially reduced. I repeat, this is a crime, a tax crime, it must be stopped immediately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u176	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u177	Dear citizens of Ukraine, today there is a protest under Parliament. These are the people who came from southern Ukraine, the porters from Black Sea, Odessa and Ishmael. They protest because of the intention of the current government and the administration of the seaports to release them from their jobs. They protect the seaports, they control that there is no smuggling, and instead they try to set up a private security firm. It's been two years. And the direct route of this private firm leads to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. So the closest environment of the current minister is going to take people working in our state ports off the job and put security into the hands of a private company. I've been talking to these people today, they say, "Ours. (e.g. Ishmael's port) keeping us in positions to protect the ports is 10 million dollars. And a private firm goes for 16 million dollars. What's the point? Why are we getting fired?" By the way, this is no longer the first port where this operation takes place. A year ago, representatives of the State Guard were released and a private firm was set up, and the state has already compensated the released state guards for 50 thousand dollars of compensation. So this is another example of political corruption. And I'm going to the Minister of the Interior of Habakkuk. All traces point to your deputy Cooperance. You or he will crucify further, and that will indicate that you are both on the subject and down, or that you will give order to the people who are standing on the ice under the parliament, who are going through the country to achieve justice, so that at last this will be put to an end. And I would like to go to the Minister of Infrastructure, who also covers everything, and to the head of the Administration of the Seaports of a citizen of Latvia, Wetskahansa, who has a salary of 400,000 dollars per month, not a year, per month. All of this is happening because of your contribution. And the second subject I wanted to tell the citizens of Ukraine is that, unfortunately, we were all betrayed and betrayed by the Antimonopoly Committee, which is controlled by President Dustenk. A few weeks before the President's election, they allowed Putin Medvedchuk's godfather to hide the most heinous industrial asset he had ever collected in his hands, at the hands of his "watchers" during the reign of Dusty. This is the pipeline that comes from Russia and that Russian Rosneft pours diesel into Ukraine, putting us all on a needle of dependence on Russian diesel. So, for days, the Antimonopoly Committee allowed Medvedchuk's friends to transform all property into a Belarusian company called the Naftobitum factory. You can imagine now all of this is going to be hidden behind a Belarusian company. And all of this is happening at a time when Ukraine actually got rid of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u178	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u179	Thank you. . Russian gas addiction. So we use our hands to force ourselves into another addiction. And now, after the change of power, it's going to be a lot more difficult for all of these powder and bear tools to investigate, because actually now they're going to be hidden.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u180	Thank you. And we have our last speech for today -- this is another speech by the People's Deputies, which was delivered by the People's Deputy of Palamarczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u181	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. I thank Mikola Petrovich Palamarczuk for giving me the talk. And it's nice to meet you. And yet I want to say the second. You know, it's very good that at last our session will not be held until a week after the election. Because we're in the polls this week, and we're not going to hear that pierra from this rostrum. And it's very good that the people of Ukraine will at least rest from us. You think we have 39 presidential candidates today, is that what you think they want us to do with 2.5 million dollars? Oh, no, we understand very well that this speech from this rostrum is preparations for the election of the Supreme Council. And I think that's most of them behind the oligarchs want to get back to the Supreme Council. But if this Supreme Council gets a lot of these 39 candidates from different parties, I'm going to say that some party doesn't get the 4 percent that even today we have here in the Supreme Council. That's a lot. That's what makes me happy. Well, I'm not talking about you, but I'm talking about some parties. And so this pear from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, it's really going to be a waste. You know, I'll tell you what, first of all, today we've heard some factions speaking out against Groysman. Do you think it's the Prime Minister who has to go in the area and make him pay his wages? Didn't the Minister's Office count the costs in an area where they should pay people who don't? No, it's not. It's great you know that today you wanted to show that, well, look how we're doing. And this, I think, for our country, well maybe this isn't the first time, we've gotten used to it. But I think that's what the president says. The president is not prying, he's driving across Ukraine, he's doing everything he can today to get Ukraine to Europe, NATO. He is doing and is worried about Ukraine today. And he didn't name any presidential candidates, he didn't call, he didn't call. He is working honestly today for the benefit of our country. Like some people. Where do we hear he's always guilty, who? President. Because he works the most. And I would like to conclude by saying that the land outside the population point for our farmers, which was given back in 1991-1992, is 5, 10, 20 hectares, and these lands today, beyond, we can't vote so that they don't go to auction every year. That's our minus, Supreme Council. I think we should get together after the President's election and give our farmers a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u182	Ten seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u183	so that the lands that are outside the populated area can be fully, truly, used by them. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-22-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, we've finished our work at the Miscellaneous. And I want to point out that for the next two weeks, this is a week of national deputies' work with voters and a week of work on committees, commissions, factions and groups. We remember that the next week is the election of the President of Ukraine. We must be responsible for our choices. Realizing that our choice directly depends on the quality of our lives and the preservation of our state. And I want to remind you that the next plenary meeting will take place on April 9th at 10 a.m. And this morning's session, I'm calling it closed.
