ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Take your seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration, we begin our work. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration, we begin our work. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin our registration. Please register. [["10:09:46."]] 371 Ukrainian national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, we have three nouns today. This is Sergei Ionushas. Is there a room? I don't see Sergei Konstantinovich. [[Applause]] Helen the Hooker. [[Applause]] And Roman Soha. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I welcome you, I wish you the success, health, strength and achievement of those goals, the realization of the goals that you and you have set before you. Thank you. With the holiday again. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, an hour of questions to the Government is held on Friday, from 10 a.m. to Friday. A meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is attended by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexei Valeriyovich Honcharuk, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] The Conciliation Council defined the theme "hours of questions to the government." Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will answer questions about the resolution of the conflict in eastern Ukraine, the tariff policy in Ukraine: conditions and prospects. The MPs of the political party "Slut of the People", the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life", the political party "European Solidarity", the political party "The Voice", based on part six of article 229 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, were informed in advance by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the questions to be asked during the "hour of questions to the government". Answers to questions posed by MPs and groups. To answer the questions posed by the MPs and groups, will be Minister of Defence of Ukraine Andri Pavlovich Zagradnuk and Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Vasil Mironovich Bodnar and First Deputy Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection Vitaly Mikolaiovich Shubin. According to the requirements of part four of article 229 of the Rules, the next order of the day is proposed "hours of questions to the Government". Each topic takes ten minutes for government members to report on a written question from factions and groups and five minutes to answer oral questions from factions and groups that have not asked a written question. The reporter answers one written or oral question from each faction and group, and written questions are necessarily read and advertised by the deputy faction who filed it. On the question of national deputies from a specific subject to the Cabinet of Ministers, take up to 30 minutes. Give one minute each oral question and two minutes to answer it. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the government's questions from the MP factions and groups. Questions about the settlement of the conflict in eastern Ukraine are answered by Defence Minister Andri Pavlovich Zagradnouk. Out of the way. Andry Pavlovich, I think you'd better get out of the place, yes, because you have a co-reporter, this is Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Vasil Mironovich Bodnar. Read the question from which factions and answer. Five minutes for you and your colleague to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u2	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone! So I'm going to read the questions that came to us. Questions from the European Solidarity faction: How does the government see the practical mechanism of military development? In particular, under what conditions will the removal of Ukrainian troops begin? The answer. As a result of the tripartite contact group meeting on October 1st, 19th, in Minsk, there was agreement on the implementation of withdrawal measures. from the restoration of power and resources in the areas of Zolote and Petrovsk. The deployment of forces and resources should take place in monitoring with the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission and under the control of the Special Monitoring and Coordination Centre in sync and mirror on both sides and should be completed within 3 days. The premeditated start of the disengagement from the line should be the confirmation of the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission that there are no ceasefire violations in the specified areas for at least 7 days. Another question, another question. On the basis of whose information will the absence of shootings be determined? The verification of absence of ceasefire violations on the sites in question should be carried out by the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission, taking into account information on the shootings provided by the United Nations Force Command and the Special Monitoring and Coordination Centre. Next question. Will gunfire be taken into account? The answer. The absence of violations of the ceasefire in the areas of divorce includes the absence of firearms. Next question. Have the appropriate positions to be taken by Ukrainian military personnel been prepared? What will be the terms of the military’s presence in these positions? Units that are open within the areas of divorce are assigned tasks for organized and phased activities of the borders and positions outside their areas of divorce. Fortifications are performed by engineering units. Why Restoration? Because we were already in those positions in 2016, they were prepared in 2016, and they're about to end. In addition, the main operational management has organized the supply and supply of material supplies from field warehouses to provide for the construction of fortification facilities in the areas of military withdrawal. We're only talking about two areas right now. Refoulement will be carried out in stages, pre-prepared positions with a prepared tranche system and connection movements, equipment for personal storage, accommodation, and proper conditions for carrying out combat tasks. I was personally in these two areas and had the opportunity to testify in preparation for positions. Next question. If it is necessary to return the Ukrainian Armed Forces to their previous positions, how quickly will the redeployment take place, and how quickly, and at what cost will the restoration of engineering be undertaken? The answer. The procedures for carrying out tasks by the United Nations force and by means of the United Nations Force are defined in the United Nations Integrated Force Implementation Plan, which provides for action under different conditions. As a result of the work of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Commander of the Ukrainian Forces and the Defence Minister on the Collision Line, decisions were made on the creation of modular towns for special storage, and the first delivery of modular type structures was planned in December 2019. How? Next question. How will the civilian population be protected from the actions of the GDR of shootings, or will the police force be able to perform its own functions? The protection of the civilian population in the zone of departure will be carried out in accordance with current legislation and provided by representatives of the National Police and other security forces in liaison with the military and civilian administrations. Armed Forces units will be held ready to respond immediately to any breach of military withdrawal arrangements and, in the event of a resuscitation, positions will be taken as planned. Can I keep going?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u3	Yeah, 30 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u4	What a sum. Next question. What amounts does the Ministry of Defence find critical in rearming the Armed Forces? At present, the current state of affairs allows for the need of the Armed Forces to provide weapons and military equipment, taking into account the restoration of existing samples. But of course it's outdated. Most of the weapons are out of date. Further prospects for re-arms will depend on the results of the defense review that is being carried out, the Armed Forces, and the definition of the future Armed Forces. This work is now being done actively.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u5	A more precise question? Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, a minute, clarifying question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, please ask two very specific questions. Where it came from seven days after the end of the war. After the shooting stopped? And what is this information that if troops are taken away, we have 30 places to go in the press, in the media, is it true whether it's another fake to ban the withdrawal of troops and stop the peace dialogue that started? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u7	Your Honor, thank you for your answer. I'm sorry to ask. So, once again, the premeditation of the beginning of the disengagement from the line should be confirmation that the special monitoring mission of the OSCE does not have a breach of the regime of at least 7 days. At present, this condition is not being met by the gang members who continue to fire regularly. In particular, yesterday we had a gunfight in the Golden District. As far as I'm concerned. We're not talking about other areas at all right now, we're only talking about two areas. All the other areas, that's the question that's going to be solved in the future. We're not even commenting on that right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u8	Thank you. The report is given to the deputy minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine, Vasil Mironovich Bodnar, for answers to questions. But a request for a question from each faction, from each, and to name the faction that asked the question in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u9	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Questions from the European Solidarity faction. The published Steinmayer formula states that Ukraine is under an obligation to adopt the Law on the Characteristics of Local Self-Government on a permanent basis. But the previous V.I.A. passed the law for three years. Why is the law now on a permanent basis? Will this not be the beginning of the Ukrainian federalization? The answer. The so-called Steinmeyer formula only defines the mechanism for enacting the law, which defines the specific status of the individual regions. The law currently in force, which means it was put into effect back in the 14th year and extended until December 31st, 19th. The philosophy of this law predicted from the very beginning that it would only work for three years. Now, the negotiating requirement that the Russian side in Minsk is to introduce special status on a permanent basis, but it will be determined by the law that will be adopted by the Supreme Council. So the law that you're going to draw up, and it's going to introduce Ukraine. The second question. Why is it that in the context of the Golden War, there is no question of the opening of KPPW there, and will there be an opening of KPPW in Gold? How do you know that the opening decision in the Golden KEVC was made back in 2016. And the Ukrainian side was in no way departing from this negotiating position, instead of insisting that the CERs be opened. But, as you know, the Russian side began to package the opening of KEVC in Gold with the opening of KPVC in Happiness. This is not provided for in any of the agreements. And that's why, today, we're also engaging partners in the Normandy format for pressure on the Russian side in order to do the right thing, and to implement the CPP in Golden. With regard to the Amnesty Law, at which stage the Amnesty Law will be drafted. I wonder if anyone's gonna get under it. How do you know there are two terms that we're talking about today. The first is to avoid persecution and punishment of persons, participants in events in Donetsk and Luhansk areas in the 14th year, in the 14th year, and this is recorded in the Minsk Accords. And the second is amnesty. In the Minsk Accords, the whole package is about not persecuting people who participated in events in the Donetsk and Luhansk areas in the 14th year. And it is worth recalling that in implementing paragraph 6 of the Minsk Protocol of September 5, 14th, the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted on the relevant law passed by the President of Ukraine on the non-persistence of persecution and punishment of persons. But he did remain in the status of the bill because he was not signed and passed on according to the legislation to the President. It is important that article 5 of the bill provides a comprehensive list of articles of the Criminal Code that are not subject to the Law on the Nonpersistence of Persecution. With regard to amnesty, we continue to have to follow the following position that, as of today, Ukraine has already adopted all the legislative acts necessary for the implementation of the amnesty legal field in the context of the implementation of the Minsk Accords under the Ukrainian Law on Amnesty in Ukraine, full or partial exemption from punishments already recognized in the commission of a crime or criminal cases before a court can only be considered after the election of legitimate authorities in occupied areas, i.e. after the restoration of the sovereignty of Ukraine. The application or nonapplication of amnesty is approved by the court. And of course, amnesty does not include crimes that, according to international law, include crimes of genocide, against mankind, and war crimes. Nor are the amnestyes of those who committed crimes after the defeat of the Malaysian Boeing. And I would like to remind you that now this is a question for discussion. We must now bring this issue to the discussion, because it is socially meaningful and extremely sensitive to society. I was able to make sure of that during my travels in Ukraine. Thank you. Next question. What is the stage at which the Law on Local Self - Rule in Occupied Areas is being drafted? Will this law be a prolongation of the existing one? As you know, I've already mentioned the law, so the drafting of the new law is the priority and prerogative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. How does Ukraine see a return to the principles of "the beginning is security", "nothing is agreed until everything is agreed"? I want to assure you that none of the Ukrainian representatives in the negotiations in the "normal" format and in the consultations in Minsk have deviated from our principle line: first of all, there must be a solution to the security issues, especially the de-escalation in the conflict zone, the withdrawal of Russian troops and mercenaries, weapons, fighters, the creation of security zones, including in border areas. After that, we confirmed the position of Ukraine, expressed since the 15th year at the "Norman Format" Paris Summit, and especially regarding the Steinmayer formula. The most recent example of this is the clear position of Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, a representative of Ukraine in the TCG on the completion of the distribution of power and resources in Złotom and Petrovsky. "Formula Steinmeyer," once again, it's not an independent tool, it's working.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u10	Let me finish 10 seconds. To be precise, Jonah’s Mary. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u11	Thank you. Extensive question to the Secretary of Defense. What's going on with the exchange of areas where the city is now being built, the reconstruction in the Lugansk Stanica, and so on? And a few specific questions to Mr. Bondar. You're quite right to note that as early as 16 years, Ukraine had opened the Golden KPB. But we have in Minsk, and as a participant in these negotiations, I can confirm that, very clearly, the deployment of armies in Gold was tied in a package to the opening of the Golden KPW. And now we're lowering our bets when we don't know. We don't tie it up. I have a very specific question to you: why aren't we in Normandy format and in Minsk putting out a packet of divorces in Gold until the opening date of the Golden KPW? And rejecting happiness, because, in fact, it's nowhere, it's never gone up. And, excuse me, this is the only one we're going to have in the Lugansk region. It's a wonderful humanitarian question. And the second. You're saying Steinmeyer's formula isn't about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u12	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u13	It's not like it's just a framework agreement. But it makes it very clear that this law is starting to work on a permanent basis, while the law has been written down for three years.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u15	Absolutely. Thank you so much for asking. You know exactly what was going on in Minsk at the time. And it's clear what we're putting now. The attachment remains the same. There must be divorce and discovery, no happiness can be absolute. We do. I continue to insist on this position. But a three-seat divorce is a prerequisite for a "normal" summit. It's the same thing as negotiating and Steinmeyer's formula. "Formula Steinmeyer" refers to now, the agreement of the term itself, this opening the way to negotiations. Rather, the law should prescribe time and time. And you're going to develop the law, including your faction, and you're going to be able to insert the position that you think is appropriate for the law to be regulated by the appropriate time frame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a word for the question is given to the representative of the faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland." Sobolev? Ichchenka Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u17	Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I wanted to address the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council. You know, the committee's decision on Wednesday, the agrarian committee, that the meeting would be held today at 2:30, in 10 minutes the text was sent out, and somehow the agrarian committee today held its meeting and agreed probably on the land market laws. I want to address you as the head of state. This is a sensitive issue for Ukraine, Ukrainians, farmers, and the agricultural sector. We have a legitimate committee decision. At 2:30, we'll come to this committee. And I would ask you as leaders to give an order to the MPs, including the Servants of the People, and directly the chairman of the committee held this meeting at 2:30. That's the right thing to do. And let us not make such decisions behind the back of the Ukrainians. Believe me, it will excite society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u18	Thank you. But I do understand that the question should still be asked from an agreed subject, colleagues. Therefore, the answer to this question will not yet be given by the government. Dear colleagues, a word for the question is given to the representative of the Group "For the Future" of Batenka Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u19	Dear Prime Minister of Ukraine! We know that now, in the near future, there will be a government meeting to determine socio-economic development. Mr. Prime Minister of Ukraine! The issue of a government that will determine the remaining funds for socio-economic development after this year. And we already see today a disproportionate distribution of these socio-economic development funds by the MPs, according to who votes in parliament and who doesn't vote in parliament. Mr. Prime Minister of Ukraine, if we see evidence of confirmation that, according to the members of the Supreme Council who are receiving from socio-economic development that contradicts Ukraine's approach to unity and a selective principle in our districts, believe that we will direct our requests to the NABU for both you and the Minister of Finance and the DBR for prejudice and abuse of your official position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u21	Colleagues, I can comment. I'm talking to the socionobe. The decision on how it is to be distributed is made by a committee that is appropriate in the Council. In the government, we can only confirm the decision of this commission. You just have to understand that. Now, at this point, we have made no decisions on this subject. I ask you to work with your colleagues on the committee so that we can consider and support the position you offer us from the Supreme Council. We are for the distribution to take place justly. Because people in various parts and parts of Ukraine cannot be discriminated against. We support this position, in fact. But at the commission level, you have to make a deal with each other. Please, people's deputies, what we're getting from you is what we're going to confirm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u22	Thank you. The first deputy minister of energy and environmental protection, Vitaly Mikolayovich Shubin, answers questions about Ukrainian tariff policy, its state and prospects.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u23	Good morning, fellow MPs! The question from the Opposition Platform is Life. What is the government planning to do to modernize coal mines and maintain Ukraine's position in energy independence, as well as coal mines, because there are 28 mines of 33 existing mines at risk of closure and at the end of the year? Is the government ready to consider the amendments to our faction to the draft Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 on this issue? Will changes be made to the budget for the current year to address the problem of repayment of wages to miners for a mere 1 billion dollars? The answer. Ladies and gentlemen, today the government is doing everything possible to ensure that miners receive their wages and debts. On October 12, 2019, the government approved the disbursement of 1 billion dollars to pay off wages and to pay off debts to miners. The Government is initiating amendments to the Act on the State Budget for 2019 under the article on coal restructuring. I hope that the bill will be supported by the committee today and voted on, and I ask you, people's deputies, to support this bill. I would also like to inform you that we have started auditing all the government mines, that we are now figuring out what the prospects for the development of the sector are, and that you will be further informed. Thank you. Next question is "Serves of the People." The program of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine notes the fair and transparent value of energy products. What steps are envisaged to create, to achieve the stated goal? Ladies and gentlemen, today we have to create transparent market conditions that will ensure the development of competition. There's no secret to anyone that the fuel and energy complex is usually unoccupied, we've been using our acquisitions for 28 years, all the power systems are worn out, the generators are worn out, and today we're not in a very good situation. We need to understand that energy products are primarily ordinary market goods. There must be many buyers and many sellers in the market, and no one should be in a position to dictate their prices at any request. In addition, the fuel-energy sector needs to respond clearly to global trends in the cost of electricity. For the next two months, our main goal is to introduce energy markets in Ukraine. You all know that there is a very rapid development and consideration of drafts that correspond to the Third Energy Package. This is our main goal for the next three months. We need to ensure the adoption of appropriate legislation and legislation that will allow Ukraine to connect with Europe's energy systems. Thank you. Voice, question. "What is the government-specific action programme, according to the paragraphs, for the transparent and easy integration of citizens and a separate small, medium-sized business into the electricity grid?" Ladies and gentlemen, you all know that on September 20, 2019, the President issued a decree on urgent measures to ensure economic growth, stimulate regional development and prevent corruption. In accordance with this decree, interested central authorities are requested to take steps to ensure simplification of the accession procedure. For the purpose of making proposals, we have sent queries to all existing interested parties. Now we're waiting for answers, they're all going to be gathered and sent to the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of the country. Because it is the commission that is responsible for changing the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, please be quiet in the hall. I don't understand what the deputy minister is reporting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall. I can invite you. Do you insist that I invite you to the rostrum? Vitaly Mikolaiovich, colleagues, is asked if you don't mind going out to the rostrum, because it's not comfortable enough. Vitaly Mikolaiovich, the national deputies have requested that you go out to the rostrum to make it more comfortable.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u25	Thank you, now. I didn't hear you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u27	Do you feel it? The question is, "European solidarity." Does the government support the changes to legislation that have opened up the restoration of power supplies from Russia? Does the government support the changes to legislation that overshadow this possibility? Ladies and gentlemen, historically, our energy systems are connected. They exist as one single energy system, and only part of Ukraine, the Burstin Energy Island, is connected to Europe's energy system. That's our goal. Our goal is to integrate fully with Europe's energy system, and this is confirmed by the corresponding commitment documents Ukraine has undertaken. But it's technically impossible today. Everyone has to understand that whether there's a right to the law or not, there is a technical import. These are technological flows that are regulated by appropriate technical agreements between Russian and Ukrainian energy system operators. We are making every effort to disconnect from Russia’s energy system as soon as possible, but that is not possible today. I hope that over the next three years we will be able to create technical and economic preconditions with you to combine with Europe. The question of combining with. – today is one of the top priorities of the government. Thank you. That was the end of my question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u28	One minute. The question is given to the representative of the faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Who? Belkova Olga Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u29	Thank you, Mr. Head. In keeping with this question, I would like to inform you that recently a group of MPs, who are looking after the tax and economic policies of the entire Parliament, have met with entrepreneurs. And question number one of the entrepreneurs was like that. When will the question of the normal cost of connecting to the power grid finally be resolved? And also industrial entrepreneurs, and these are businesses where thousands of Ukrainian workers are working, and they're wondering what the Ministry of Energy and Ecology is planning to do as soon as possible in order to lower the price of electricity in order to make our industry more competitive compared to European countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u30	Thank you very much for asking. But you know, I'm sure you know that the issue of changing rules and cost is primarily the question of an independent regulator, the National Regulatory Commission, that. The National Commission, it's independent. The Ministry can't and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has no influence on the commission, so we're actually doing and doing work, and we're going to go out with them to make improvements in this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u31	Thank you. The question is given to the representative of the "For the Future" MP. Taras Ivanovich Batenko or who? Batenko? Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u32	Dear friends, I have a question, once again, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to the government as a whole from which we started, then proceed. The first question is the beginning of a heating season to begin in Ukraine. A critical situation in the Lviv region in two cities I can't help but say this because the actual Smilly issue is closed, the government has found a solution. The city of New Division and the city of Novoyavorysk, a few more days and people will be coming out to block international routes. Asking the Government of Ukraine to find the funds of a reserve fund and to recognize this situation as an extraordinary situation of regional scale, to help resolve the issue of self-government, to calculate the debts of employees, and to encourage people and to give people warmth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u33	Thank you. We'll take the information to the public, and I assure you, we'll do everything we can to keep the heating season in Novoyavorysk and the New Division warm and light, everyone being satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u34	Accurating answer, Babak, Alona Babak, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, the government is now actively working with the governor of the Lviv region on this issue. Today, the governor is literally now calling a commission of extraordinary situations and will really acknowledge in the city of the New Division the situation as it is, is at risk of being a technological catastrophe at a regional level. In line with this decision, there is already an agreement to convene a very quick district council to allocate funds to support people who have not received a salary in the past heating season. And in order for people to agree to come to this facility, work on this object. From other utilities, the circuits will be technical in support of solving the technical problems in this situation. The supply of electricity from Ukrzalznice will also be addressed. I mean, the distinguished national MP, we thank you for paying attention to this problem. We are actively working, and we look forward to a quick solution to this situation. People will be warm.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there will be questions from the deputies. There's 30 minutes. I suggest that we have representatives of ministries, 10 minutes each. Now I'm going to ask you to sign up for the First Deputy Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection, Vitaly Mikolaiovich Shubin. Okay? Please sign up for the performances by the National Deputies. Rules - 10 minutes. Irina Miroslavovna, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u37	I give the word to Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u38	Igor Goose.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u39	Igor Goose, Volin. So, dear friends, respectable government and Mr. Hotcharuk! By the way, I don't see him. Where's Mr. Goncharuk? We have a question for the government right now. Where did the Prime Minister go? Please tell me. Is there a Prime Minister somewhere?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u40	There's a Prime Minister. He deals with the issue of the payment of wages to miners.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u41	We have a question for the government right now. And I want the Prime Minister to find an hour in a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u42	Igor Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry. Igor Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry to interrupt. But questions within the subjects that have been identified. There's a deputy minister. He's standing next to him right now. This is provided for in the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u43	Give me some time. Give me time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u44	Okay. But within questions. Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u45	Mr. Dmitri, it's government day. And if the Prime Minister can't find an hour to stay here and listen, it's a shame. I ask you to bring the Prime Minister here. Now the question is essentially to the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers. I've had miners strike in my district for a few days. They haven't been paid a salary since June. I'd like to ask you, where's the Ministry, where's the Deputy Minister? Why isn't anyone going to the strike miners and you're hiding here in Kiev? I demand, today, you take the car, you sit down with me, you go to these people who didn't get paid for June, July, August, September and October. You're hiding like Nasalik was hiding. End up with the same thing. I demand that your ministry respond urgently to the problem of miners in Novovolinsk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u46	All right, guys, let's do it again. I understand that we are all big politicians, but the question within the subject matter that has been defined, and also from your group, unfortunately, has not come up with any questions to the government in writing. I think it's going to be right and right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u47	Dear People's Deputy! Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u48	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u49	Can you hear me? Good feeling? Let's talk constructively first, because these slogans don't lead to anything. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen to me, please! You were listening. [[B in m in s a l in]] Today. The Prime Minister is now addressing the issue of payment to miners of 1 billion dollars. And if you listened very carefully to my speech, you understood that today we were addressing you with a view to adopting a law that was appropriate. You, this is your responsibility! Today this law is to be voted here. Do you understand? And you say there is no Prime Minister, the Ministry doesn't pay attention. If you're listening, we've been working since October 12th, we know about the problem. We do. [[B in m in s a l in]] If we are there, the question will not be solved. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u50	Dear Deputy Minister, I'm sorry, but yes, well, you don't have to go with the people's deputies either. I think that national deputies know their obligations under the Rules and are provided for in the Constitution. Let us, then, show respect for ourselves. People's deputies to the deputy minister, and the prime minister's deputies to the national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize. Indeed, it is a matter of great importance. We already know that meetings are being held in Kiev, and we are taking steps not to do so. But you don't have to provoke us, because, really, we're working "24 times 7" so that miners get their wages. We understand all the problems. And I assure you that we are doing everything we can to make people pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, please! Dear colleagues, please be quiet in the hall! Igor Volodymyrovich, Prime Minister, is in consultation with representatives. [[B in m in s a l in]] Igor Volodymyrovich, you wanted to see the Prime Minister. People's Deputy Gus, National Deputy Gus! Colleagues, please! [[B in m in s a l in]] Igor Volodymyrovich, do you see the time? There's a Prime Minister, everyone in place, see? All right, let's just calm down a little bit. Thank you. Thank you all. Dear colleagues! Yuri Kamelchuk! Dear colleagues, please thank you all for the silence in the hall. Fedia Sofia Romanovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u53	Fedina Sofia. Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u54	Alexeiovich Honcharenko
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u55	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, north of Restoration. You haven't answered our question that our faction has asked about the import of electricity from the Russian Federation. Why are you talking nonsense about leaking? There were no leaks in the 18th, 17th or 16th. For the last time, power was imported from the Russian Federation in the 15th year and because it was going through Ukraine into the occupied Crimea. Since then, there has been no power purchases in the Russian Federation. Why did you come and work 24 by 7 for who, the Russian Federation? And it immediately began to buy electricity for commercial purposes. Should I call you the names of the companies that are now buying electricity? What are you doing? And answer essentially the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u56	That's a good question. First of all, I'd like to say that you're probably a distinguished national MP, who's not well informed because there's a technical leak. It's a continuous process that we can't stop. I'm sorry, I can give you a piece of information about this and the quantity. There are appropriate interstate contracts between system operators. That's the first one. The other one. In fact, there is import, but it's a market issue. And this is, first of all, a matter for the Supreme Council, because the Cabinet of Ministers doesn't accept legislation. And if the legislator found that there was an opportunity to import, the market opened up, and players in the market responded accordingly. We see certain even positive things from these things. So if you really want to deal with the import issue, I invite you to the Ministry, we show you all the contracts, we show you the cost of even the technological flows, we show you the 15th, the 10th, the 11th, the 12th, the 19th, all the changes, we'll show you everything. And you'll understand that. And you'll understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u57	Thank you. Trebushkin Ruslan Valeriyovich. Please turn on the Trebushkin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u58	Good afternoon! Dear Deputy Minister, the question is. Indeed, this was the case with the debt of coal miners in Donetsk. And that billion you're planning to pay now, it's not enough to deal with coal miners. What are you planning to do about it? And after 2020, what do you plan to do to make the coal sector develop rather than stagnate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u59	Dear National Deputy, we really do realize that 1 billion dollars doesn't solve the issue in a comprehensive way, it's only 80 percent of the debt. And this question in the future will also be resolved. So thank you for reminding us, it's very appropriate to keep this issue for a first-line settlement. With regard to the 2020 budget, this probably needs to be done with the ministries of profile that understand the figures in order to understand. I want to assure you that the Ministry is currently conducting audits. For the last five years, they haven't been very good for the coal sector, they've been very bad. Tell you how neglected it is, that the mines are all stolen, stolen, and that coal is not very good quality, and it's not very marketable. We can't sell it to other countries and make money on it. So the question of development is much broader than simply developing or not developing. We have more than 20 mines that are damaged. Today, the cost of tons of coal is financed by the same miners and families. Is that necessary? Questions to you. If you say it's necessary, we'll support the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u60	Thank you. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u61	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy, Jooff.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u62	Ioffe Yuliy Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u63	Dear reporter, the failure to pay wages to miners is the result of this policy that goes to the government mines of Ukraine. There are 33 of them left. It's not working anymore. In my calculations, I've had enough experience in this -- 30 years of undergraduate, I saw when I looked at the mining plans, which are going to be 5 in the next year. These are simple calculations to figure out how much to put in, because there are industrial reserves on all these mines to make mines exist and make profits. Please tell me, are there any such calculations in each of the 33 mines?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u64	Thank you for asking, distinguished national MP. Look, I've already stressed twice today that we're conducting an audit. Indeed, there are 30, more than 30 mines belonging to the State, the State Treasury, and the Ministry. The question is, not everyone has a foundation that needs development. But this is a question that we've come to. Indeed, there are mines in Ukraine, and there are more than 10 that have prospects for developing and getting good coal that we need. And I assure you, these mines will work. Now we're looking for a formula to make the industry a non-breakable sector, because I think the Ukrainians are getting tired of funding the coal sector constantly because it's not making any money. That's a fact. She hasn't made a living there in the last 10 years. And it's very strange that private mines are making money on themselves and government mines aren't making money. And we have to solve that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u65	Thank you. Question time's up. Thank you. Ukrainian Defence Minister Andry Pavlovich Zagradnouk is invited to ask questions from national deputies. Andrew Pavlovich, please. Please register with the Ukrainian National Deputies for the performance. Friz Irina Vasilovna, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u66	Thank you. Please pass the word to Michael Zabrodsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u67	Mikhailo Vitaliovich Zabrodski. Please turn on the Zabrodsky microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u68	Mr. Secretary of Defense! Glory to Ukraine! Three questions that concern the military forces, I think, and just the unsettled people. The first relates to the state of continuation of the construction of hostels. We now hear much, even from open sources, that some 184 objects have been suspended.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u69	I'm sorry, you could speak up, it's very bad to hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u70	The construction of more than 184 objects has already been suspended. Is it planned to continue this year? And if so, what terms does the Ministry of Defense, as a task, put an end to this process? Mr. Minister, the next question is about the immediate transition, more precisely the suspension of the transition, to the new food system. Will this process be continued, and will the next dynamic be followed, and accordingly, the deadlines for this year? And the third question concerns the more fiscal sphere. We know that in recent years there has been a systematic increase in financial security.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u71	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u72	For military personnel who carry out tasks in the Air Force. Are such payments planned to continue to increase by 2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u73	Thank you very much. Yes, on the first question. You're absolutely right, really, we've stopped for a very short period of time, we haven't stopped the construction, we've stopped the financing of the next steps, because we've raised projects and a lot of them haven't continued construction. So they were frozen, the contractors went, and it wasn't clear at all how it was financed or how it was financed. We've done this little audit, we've already figured out the list that's going on, and we're still going after it. We have a list that's still in that suspended state, that's about a week more. And it's exactly where we're not going to continue, where we're handing materials over to law enforcement about simply, contractors spent money, something stopped, and they just left objects. And, of course, we won't keep doing that. We are likely to break contracts and pass them on to other contractors. As for the second question. I fully support the new food system with all my hands. As you know, it was developed, including by my participation, in the Office of Reform, and so, of course, we're behind it, but it's blocked by a court decision. Now we're filing all the appeals and we're looking for a legal way out of this so that we don't stop it. We'll try our best to keep it going. Every time I come, I ask the questions, all the questions are "for." And as for the budget, this question is now being discussed because, frankly, I wouldn't want to answer it right now, because it's complicated. We're now deciding how to do this so that we don't dissipate the budget, because our main task for the next year is development. Although of course there is inflation, there are all of these factors, and so a little bit later we'll be able to say clearly to who and how it's going to get higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u74	Thank you. Tetjana Mikhaylovna's crying.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u75	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u76	Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u77	Mr. Secretary, when you were appointed, I asked you questions and requests regarding the military congregation. We ask you to find out where billions of dollars of the military congregation have been spent, and we ask you to initiate the distinction between this congregation and 2020. Because there is no transparent system for using these funds today, and every person in our country is paying for it. That's the first question. The second question. Today, it is not only our miners who owe their wages, although this is certainly unacceptable. Today, debt is already in the hands of teachers, doctors. And the brightest example is the debt of Ucrobanprom. So we ask you to take an urgent look. And the third question is, this is the Slovenian resort. You promised, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u78	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u79	A Slovenian resort, you promised to take care of yourself. Because the military has to be redeployed from there. So far, unfortunately, no decision has been made on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u80	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you may answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u81	At the Slovenian resort. Let's take a separate meeting with the MPs who are interested in this issue. The question has been studied, and I can just talk about it separately. It's about the Ucrobanprom. He's not under the Ministry of Defense. I know about the debt, we're in big trouble. We're a customer of the Ucrobronprom, not a shareholder of the Ucrobronprom. And we also have big questions about the effectiveness of some businesses, some even have criminal cases, you've probably heard about it and so on, we're considering how they're doing our tasks. We look forward to a new leadership there. Now we see that there are changes going on, and some of them are positive, and hopefully. But we can't be responsible for the situation at the Croatprome. As far as spending all budget expenditure is concerned, we're actually doing a whole series of tests right now. There was an aimless use of them, there were. We're sending materials to the law enforcement agencies now every day, practically. I can't comment on that right now. But I'm ready to talk about it. I won't comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u82	Svoslav Ivanovich Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u83	May I have a word with you, Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u84	Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u85	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear Andrew Pavlovich, first of all, I would like to take this opportunity to invite you, on behalf of your colleagues, to the meeting of the Temporary Special Commission yesterday, formed to take care of the restoration of territorial integrity and state sovereignty. I hope you won't refuse to go to our committee meeting. I think we'll set a date. And now two very short questions. First of all, the budget, unfortunately, has much less money planned for the modernization, purchase and maintenance of technology and weapons than the Ministry of Defence would have wanted. How are you going to patch these holes? And the second question. More specifically, the army of 75,000 eats about 75 percent of the defence budget. I know you're going to gradually reduce the Armed Forces. Can you share plans in how, in what sequences, and in what stages will this take place?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u86	Thank you. Thank you so much for asking. I'm very ready. I mean, I'm willing to participate in a commission, in any commission created by the Supreme Council on matters relating to our competence. Of course, this question too. So tell me when she's sitting, and I'll come to her myself. If you'll excuse me, it's only temporary. About the budget. As you know, the figures that were published are earlier. The budget is now being reviewed. You've probably heard from the press that there's a proposal for a $136 billion budget -- 136.6 -- and there's a lot of this budget going to modernize and buy new weapons. It was with this issue that we were taking the lead in the country. You know perfectly well that we have a whole series of directions, a whole set of abilities in a very bad state. And we understand very clearly that it takes a considerable amount of money. And that's the main thing. By the way, it's our top priority right now to close these gaps in these abilities. So, well, we're hoping that you'll see a new budget soon and you'll be satisfied with the percentage of weapons and military technology. Including abroad, because some are not produced in Ukraine, including private ones, because some are not produced by state enterprises. So we have to make this balance. We're not planning to shorten the Armed Forces right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u87	Thank you. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u88	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I'm drawing your attention. See, on Tuesday the Head of the Supreme Council personally distributed the desires of Ukrainian children to factions. And here in the first place is the restoration of peace. You didn't answer Yuri Anatoliovich Boyka today about this fairy who's running out of control, that when 30 troops were deployed, they'd be in the Syrian zone that they'd be uncontrollable. But one thing I'm curious about is, what would you say to this child who wants to restore peace, and they clearly said, is that how Ukraine will execute the withdrawal agreement or not? Say, please, briefly and preferably in two words -- either yes or no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u89	Two areas are currently planned for divorce. We're putting a dot on this right now in the comments on divorce. Other divorces are not. We're not doing it now. Of course, as a European country, we have to try peaceful solutions, and as the Ministry of Defense, we have to work to increase the ability of our Armed Forces, because if our Armed Forces respond to threats, chances of peace will be much higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u90	Thank you, Andrew Pavlovich. Thank you. Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Vasil Mironović Bodnar is invited to speak. Vadim Volodymyrovich Pristajko, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please register with the national deputies for a question. Please sign up. System failure. Jonah's second will act. Belkova Olga Valentinovna. Sergey was sore. Soboled? Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. Next up is Jonah. Olga Valentine's Day. Sobolen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u91	Sobolje, Fatherland. It's a matter of both the minister of profile and the government as a whole. As has become known literally in these days, the Russian oligarch company, which is under the sanctions of the European Union, the United States and Ukraine, Mr. Deripaska, has placed in the Russian Federation a customs office directly on the enterprise, a unique production used for the Russian Federation's military and industrial complex. This is a Deaf career that produces such products. Please tell us how the government reacts to this publication, and what will be done to stop it immediately? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u92	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u93	Dear National MP, thank you so much for asking. In order to have a specific answer, I need to figure it out. We'll contact you and tell you what we know about this and what the Ukrainian government does with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u94	Thank you. The word is Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u95	Yes, thank you. Mr. Secretary, when answering the question, your deputy pointed out that the Ukrainian representatives had never deviated from the principle line during the negotiations of the norm. But I would like to remind you that on July 12th, in Paris, consultations took place in Normandy format at the level of the diplomatic advisors of the leaders of the Normandy Quartet, where unfortunately all legal frameworks, including the Steinmayer formula, local elections and amnesty, were agreed upon. At the time, Mr. Zelensky's advisor was you. I would like to point out that, in 2015 or 2016, the Ukrainian side never agreed or supported any formula without a safe step. So my question is, did you, as a counselor, receive directives from Mr. President Zelensky, or was Greensky's team in Paris on July 12th? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u96	Thank you for asking. The Ukrainian side disagreed in July with any of the questions you mentioned. "Formula Steinmeyer" was actually discussed, but no amnesty, no other questions that you called were agreed upon. As for Steinmeyer formula. You remember where this formula came from when it was agreed at the level of Heads of State that it was necessary to look for the solution that was offered to find the minister of foreign affairs. Two foreign ministers in France and Germany made a commitment to formulate it because two other ministers refused to do so. The result was the birth of a letter from Fabius and Steinmeyer, which in our society is called the broad subtext of the Steinmeyer formula. On September 2nd of this year, this formula was agreed on a short scale, which is now known to everyone in Ukraine as the Steinmeier formula, and foresees a link between the holding of local elections and the entry into force of special status for individual regions of Donetsk and Lugansk. This formula is bound by two laws that these laws will be, and so it will be fulfilled. You remember that the prerequisites for holding elections in the first part of the election are the security conditions that will be created in the area where the elections will take place. Including heavy-duty weapons, foreign weapons, the disbandment of illegal military formations, and foreign control. This has not been mentioned once. And for the last time, even when it was signed. The written letter to the head of the OSCE SMM and representatives of the tripartite contact group, and the other President of Ukraine Kuchma, this was clearly pointed out, what are the preconditions of the Ukrainian side for any local elections in the region at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u97	Thank you. The question is given to Babak Mikola Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u98	Please pass the word to Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u99	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u100	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Mr. Secretary, please speak to the world community, with foreign investors, with our donors. Please tell me, are there any questions about today's unified theme of miners in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions of Volinsk, that warehouses today are not killed by their Ukrainian coals, that we are today bringing something from the ocean of coal into our country, from America, from the desert in practice? Please tell me, do they know abroad that the state of Ukraine may lose its heat and also the military in the buffer zone of the Steinmayer formula? It all depends on the coal sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u101	Thank you, Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u102	Dear People's Chosen One, I understand your pain, I feel your responsibility for the miners. And believe me, the government has the same responsibility to all our citizens, our companies, including our miners. But by answering your question clearly, "No" in conversations with foreign representatives, they are not discussing with us the difficult situation in which the coal sector is now. They're counting that it's our job with you to ensure the operation of our heat stations and that our people are warmed up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u103	Thank you. Sukhov Alexander Sergiyovich, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u104	Check it out, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u105	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u106	Check it out. Check it out. Check it
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u107	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u108	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear Minister, why don't you tell us why the Steinmayer formula for the Ukrainian people is not being clarified? I'm from Lugansk myself, our entire Lugansk region team. Today, people who live practically in the buffer zone are frightened. They are not interested in the elections in that area, they are interested in peace, they are interested in how they will live after the armies have been dissolved, whether they will be killed today by peaceful inhabitants by hundreds or thousands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u109	Dear national electorate, what we are doing with you right now is this late reaction of the Ukrainian government to the security requirements and the security issues that have arisen before our people. We owe you, in particular, an explanation to our people that the Ukrainian government has been doing all of the last five years. Now the new government is trying to speak honestly to you about what Steinmeier's formula is. how we try to bring peace to this earth. This discussion is difficult. I cannot agree with you that there is no explanation at all, but it is obviously not enough. I don't know, I think the word Steinmayer has become one of the most popular in the Ukrainian network. Obviously, though, this is not enough. And we have to explain to people how, going through those Minsk agreements that have been going on for five years, the government is trying to figure out. Bring peace to our territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u110	Thank you, Your Honor. There's still time. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u111	Mr. Secretary, I have a question in the context of the military threat that we see and observe today, especially in the context of Russia's massive military manoeuvres on the border with Belarus. Russia’s military preparations are clearly not at peace with Ukraine. And we're hearing about the great desire to make a deal with the Russian Federation by Ukraine in the framework of the Minsk contact negotiating groups. Minister, what concrete steps do you see from the Russian Federation regarding their willingness to make a deal with Ukraine today or tomorrow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u112	Thank you. This is a very serious question. He probably had to be assigned to the Defense Minister who was in front of me, and he could answer you professionally. But I absolutely share with you the concern, and we're also seeing what's going on. Not only are we, our partners in NATO, in the European Union, doing a clear job, doing observations and satellites, and exploring to understand what is really the threat that the Russians are really trying to achieve when they're conducting these maneuvers. How many of the bases have been built for teaching? How many soldiers are left? For example, how is the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the military units of the Russian Ministry of Interior connected? Where are they moving, and how fast and fast is this movement taking place? Does this pose a threat to us and to what areas? This does not go unnoticed by our analysis. As for the Minsk Accords, once again, I want to remind you five years -- not now, we haven't come up with you, we haven't made up our minds, we're forced to go the way that was drawn by our previous government five years ago. As to whether or not we realize clearly and how we will bring peace and what we are doing for it. Our task is to finance and help our Armed Forces develop enough to ensure our security. It's very difficult to implement, but that's what the Ukrainian government is working on right now. Thank you. As far as how we feel, I'm sorry how much we feel Russia is ready to move. That is why President Zelenski of Ukraine is now trying to do everything possible to meet in the "normal" format. We hope that this meeting will take place next month, and you and I will witness the willingness to move forward in all four directions outlined in the Minsk Accords. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for questions to the government has run out. I would like to thank both the Prime Minister and the government for answering the questions. "The year of questions before the government" is over. Thank you. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two MP factions about a break of 30 minutes. I'm calling it a 30-minute break, not ten-twelve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. I will now read the questions that have come from the Ukrainian national deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you very much for your attention, I ask you not to be noisy. The break is over. So the questions came from the Ukrainian national MPs: From Victoria Grib to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the risks of ending electricity and heat production "DTEK Lugansk thermal power station". John Shinkarenko and Alexander Tkachenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the examination of the facts of the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the State Architectural Inspection of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the use of effective response measures to halt illegal construction in the territory of the Danube Biosphere Reserve. Alexander Tkachenka to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Health, Health and Health Insurance, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance on the use of effective measures to ensure the financing of the salaries of workers in the Belgrade-Dnistrovska Health Institutions, the Tatarbunar and the Kielija districts of the Odessa Region. Alexander Kachura to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the update of the web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ivan Shinkarenko and Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, State Agency of Roads of Ukraine, Odessa District State Administration for funding for the repair of roads of general use in the Tatarbunar and Kili district of Odessa. Zinovija Andryovich to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the inclusion of 1,418 members of the military town to the horizontal leveling of the taxation of the Delanetian united territorial community of the Ivano-Frankiv region. Gifts of Vladina to the Ukrainian State Tax Service regarding the provision of information on matters related to the exercise of parliamentary powers. Nakludova, the Attorney General of Ukraine, is in charge of conducting an effective pretrial investigation into criminal conduct involving the theft of budgetary resources. Constantine Kasaya to Deputy Chief of Maintenance of the Traffic Service in the Poltav region regarding the state of roads in Poltav region. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Kyiv City Head on the possible illegal construction of the Apartment Complex "Signature", addressed to: Mečnikova, 11A and the Society's residence with limited responsibility "Budinform", addressed to: ul. Mednikova, 7B, which leads to the collapse of neighboring dwellings and threats to the lives of their inhabitants. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inclusion of measures in the State Development Program of the Ukrainian Carpathian Region for 2020-2022 on the safety of mountain tourism. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv District State Administration on the problem of financing medicines financed under the relevant government program, including insulin in the Bouquet region of Lviv. Michael Bondar to the head of the National Police Directorate in the Lviv region, the first deputy prosecutor of the Lviv region, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Lviv region for the promotion of the restoration of documents by a participant in hostilities in the East, the mover of Postal Sergy, and the establishment of conditions for obtaining a Ukrainian citizen’s passport and a foreign passport by a foreign person in his name. Alexia Zmerenecki to the procurator of the Hmelnicke district for investigating the abuse of the leadership of the Polonian united district community of the Hmelnicke district. Alexia Silent to the director of the state-owned enterprise National Information Systems, Minister of Justice of Ukraine for Access to Public Information of the Single State Register in the form of Open Data. Jurya Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the number of children born to surrogate mothers. Jurya Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on interstate relations with regard to the recognition of the legality of surrogate motherhood, the rights of children genetically related to foreign nationals born to surrogate mothers in Ukraine. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the provision of budgetary financing for works for the repair of the road of general use of state value (territorial) T-22-07, which passes through the High-Paul region of the Herson region. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the provision of state funding for the construction of a complex of clean drinking water on the streets of Industry, 27 in the village of the city type Novorontsovka Hersson district. Elisabeth Bogacka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Vladimir Ivanov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Herson District State Administration, Head of the Herson District Council on the need for the development of the "HERSON'S HEALTH" District Health Programme, as well as the allocation of additional public funding to ensure adequate provision of hearing aid for the people of the Hersonian region. Vladimir Ivanov to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the need to resolve individual issues from the preparation of the budgetary institutions of the Ivanov region of the Herson region to the new heating season. Arsenija Pushkarenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the state of pretrial investigation in criminal proceedings No. 1201810010005890, concerning the dissipation of funds allocated to the construction of clearing facilities of the Orihuatian bets of the Bologna Park of Kiev. People of Marchenko to the head of the Ternopil District Council on the implementation of the tasks and actions of the State Target Development Program of Ternopil Airport until 2023. People's Marchenko to the director of the Ternopil district utility company "Ternopilaviatotrans" on the implementation of the tasks and actions of the State targeted airport development programme until 2023. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the restoration of the financing of socio-economic development sites. Sergey Ljowczyna to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat of a stable heating season. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on compensation for the cost of treatment to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the separation of social protection offices in separate structural units with the direct subordination of the Ministry of Social Policy and the non-reduction of the current number of employees. Olesia Long to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine on the need to take urgent measures to prevent a break in the heating season in the city of Svetłovodsk Kirovograd. Olesia Long to the Kyrovograd District State Administration on the need to provide immunosuppressive treatment. Dmitry Kostuk to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the Restoration of the Novograd-Wallin Military Hospital. Vladislav Borodin and Sergey Severin to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Dnipropetrov district government administration for the uninterrupted provision of insulin to a sick child. Natalia Pippa to the Lviv City Head to review the detailed layout of the area in Lipov Aleia, Lviv. Paul Frolov to the head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on the use of antitrust measures by individual subjects of entrepreneurial activity and the provision of economic competition in Ukraine’s electricity market. Paul Frolová to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to prepare and conduct the All-Ukrainian Population Census and implement the electronic census mechanism in Ukraine. Alexander Kachura to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Defense of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for information on the finding of voluntary formations in the territory of the United Nations Operation. Grigory Mamka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of the unlawful activities of officials of the Ukrzaliznica Association and other legal persons of private law. Sophia Fedina to the minister of internal affairs of Ukraine regarding the destruction and damage of green plants, the desecration and destruction of a monument built in memory of those who protected independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and participated directly in an antiterrorist operation. Igor Negulewski to the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine on the operation of the Order of the State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine on the results of the review of licensing issues from 4 April 2018 No19-L in part of the issue of the license to the Society with limited responsibility "Mikolayevbudcent". Igor Negulewski to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, State Road Agency of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the maintenance of road repairs for the general use of the state importance of the Mikolai region. Olga Saladuha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Director of the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Veterans, Interimly Occupied Areas and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the Implementation of the Arrangement for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, Children with Disabilities and Other Individual Population Categories, and the payment of monetary compensation for self-sustained technical and other means of rehabilitation, lists of such funds in 2020. Peter Pavlovsky to the deputy head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography, and cadastre for information in connection with the consideration of a bill on the circulation of agricultural land. Julius Yatzik to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, head of the State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate of Ukraine, president of the state-owned enterprise "National Atomic Energy Company Energoate" for information and action. Julius Yatzik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, Deputy Head of the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Head of the Opposition District Administration, Head of the Zaporozky District Council for the Cessation of Illegal Construction and the Further Prohibition of the Construction of the Solid Waste Field within the city of Vasilovka Zaporez. Artema Dubnov to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the arbitrator. Peter Pavlovsky was under the responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service to obtain information on the size of the rent and the use of agricultural land. Sergey Severin to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repair of the crash areas of the road of state importance T-04-08 Pavlovgrad – Tokmak. Sergey Severin to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repair of crash areas of the state-owned road T-04-01 Dnipro-Melitopolis. Groups of national deputies (Nikitina, Stepa, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the development of project and cost-benefit documentation for the major repair of the crash area of the territorial road T-04-01 Dnipro-Vasilkowka-Pokrovské-Gulypole-Palogi-Melitopol km 168+888 - km 187+291 (18.4 kilometers). Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the work for the full restoration of the Hirov-Zaguž railway connection. Alexander Danuci to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the limitation of time limits under contracts for the supply of food goods to commercial networks through the adoption of the relevant decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine under article 271 of the master code of Ukraine. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the failure to pay child care assistance until she reaches the age of three to pay the Social Insurance Fund for the temporary loss of employment. Alexander Guerrega to the finance minister of Ukraine to increase funding for treatments for people who have suffered from rare (orphan) diseases. Sergey Stepa to Zaporozhye’s City Head on the need for immediate financing of capital road repairs in the streets of Mirna, Bokhon, and Rajewski in Zaporozhye. Sergey Steps to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the non-closure of the Regional Clinical Endocrine Dyspnoea. Tarasa Batenka to the head of the Lviv District Administration, head of the Lviv District Council to review the decision on liquidation (by way of joining) Lviv County Council of the Lviv District Psychiatric Hospital. Mary Mezentsevsky to the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine regarding the problem of increasing the number of refusals to grant a student visa to foreign students and the measures used to overcome it. Maria Mezentsevsky to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the reasons for the increase in the number of refusals to grant a student visa to foreign students. Dmitry Nalotova to the head of the Poltawaz Stock Exchange Company for the provision of safe and stable gas to consumers of the apartment building. Dmitry Nalotov to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the unjustified cessation of gas supply to consumers of apartment housing. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of the Balgrad region of Odessa as a single administrative and territorial unit in the process of administrative and territorial reform. The Gennady of Watzak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the repair of M-21. The Gennady of Watzak to the Ukrainian Railway Association for Railways. Zinovija Andrivović to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the general education school I-III, graduated in the village of Bitków, in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Irina Borzowa, head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services on the Use of Urgent Measures to Protect the Rights of Consumers of Electricity, on the Remuneration of Remuneration for the Use of Electricity by the Winnizaoblanergo Association and the limited responsibility of Enera Winnic. Stepan Kuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to immediately cancel the registration of legal persons by military commissions. Stepan Kuba to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the need for the immediate introduction of a clear order of determination of fines in the area of competition protection. Solomonia Bobrovsky to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine regarding the origin of coal in the central enrichment factory of the city of Czervonograd of Lviv Region. Alexander Bakumov to Kharkiv City Head, Prosecutor of Kharkiv District, Head of National Police in Kharkiv Region for the Protection of the Rights of Investors (Paiovics) of the Radužany Housing Complex in Kharkiv. Alexander Bakumov to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Director of the Kharkiv Institute of Finance of Kyiv National Commercial and Economic University for the Determination of the Balance of Housing at the address: Kharkiv City, Rustaveli Street, 11. Sergey Litvinenka to the head of the Ravenna District State Administration for urgent action in connection with the situation of granite explosions in the village of Vira in the Rhine region. Alexander Kunicko to the head of the National Police of Ukraine for the conduct of tests on stationed patrols to enforce Ukrainian legislation in the establishment of road signs "STOP-CONTROL" and artificial obstacles that narrow the road path in the post area and significantly complicate road traffic. Marina Bardinau to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the replacement of emergency stairs in the Podil district of Kyiv. Marina Bardinau to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the lighting of the underground crossing at the People’s Party Boulevard in the Bologna district of Kiev. Larissa Bilozoz to the Ministry of Community Development and Ukraine’s Territories on the development of a methodology for assessing the ability of united territorial communities. Larissa Bilozoz to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Community Development and Ukraine, the Wynnick district government administration for the granting of hospital status intensive treatment to the first level of the municipal non-commercial enterprise "Shargorodska Central District Hospital". Veacheslava Rublov to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, acting as head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the cause of environmental hazards. Darius Volodyna was responsible for the duties of Chief of State Tax Administration in Odessa for providing information on matters related to the exercise of parliamentary powers. Oksana Savchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, to provide social protection for the benefits of the rural population, which joins the territorial communities of cities of district importance. Oksana Savichuk to the Ukrainian minister of health for the approval of a list of medicines for the treatment of rare (orphan) diseases. Alexander Gorenyuk to the head of the State Fiscal Office in Odessa for the possible illegal operation of liquor establishments in the Suvorov district of Odessa. Alexia Zmerenecki to the head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee for the Long-term Investigation of Anticompetitive Concerted Action during the Procurement Procedure. Alexia Kucherenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of construction of the Kreminska Substation and alternative fuel supply schemes for the Lugansk Heat Power Station. Alexander Fedienka to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the establishment of pay for access to the infrastructure of telecommunications facilities in Kiev. Groups of National Deputies (Black, Nesterenka and others) A total of 8 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the failure to stop the State Enterprise "East Mining and Enrichment" in October 2019. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the State budget for Ukraine for 2020, other legal and regulatory acts on the solution of the problem of underfunding for the main financial and budgetary lines of financing of the territory of Zaporozhye in 2020. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the resolution of the loss problem in 2020 of local budgets in connection with the removal of revenue from the excise tax portion produced in Ukraine and imported into the customs territory of Ukraine of the fuel industry. Vladimir Ariev to the head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption for the Prevention of Potential Conflict of Interest during the Procurator - General Vitaly Kasko. Sergia Labazuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the relevance of individual and fundamental regulation, technical and professional higher education as separate directions. Anna Speedhod to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption on the verification of the abuse of office position of former head of the Boguslav District Public Administration Irina the Old One. Mikoli Kucher to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the need for housing funding for orphans, children deprived of parental care, persons on the basis of subsidies from the state budget to local budgets. Marijana Bezugola to the minister of interior affairs of Ukraine on some of the issues of natural trade in the Obolon district of Kyiv. Igora Kisilova to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the financing of expenditure under the budget programme “Determination of solid rocket fuel”. People's deputies, Your Honor, these are all questions. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u115	The honourable national deputies, on the chairman’s right, continue for a period of 15 minutes. Dear factions leaders, ask for five minutes to meet with the Chief of the Supreme Council. Dear factions leaders, five minutes to meet in the head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, we are about to begin, we are proceeding more faithfully, our meeting. Please take your seats. I really hope that we can make it fast.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, please prepare and take your seats. We have an unforgivable day today, and Friday is out. Friday and the 13th, though on the 17th. We're continuing our work. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We met with representatives of various political parties and groups represented at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. An agreement has been reached to continue our work and to make changes to today’s plenary session. First. Dear colleagues, I'm about to make a voice call, please listen to me. First position. We're looking at the draft State Budget Act 2020. The other one. We are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in relation to the separation of natural gas transport activities (registration numbers 2239, 2239-1) and a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2019 (registration number 2283). The last two bills, in principle like the Ukraine State Budget Act 2020, will be discussed in the first reading. Please tell me, is there any objection to such an order of the day? I'll let everyone speak now. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, Hero. A moment of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, we pay attention to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it is your job to properly organize the work of Parliament. Today's event is happening, and we want to go to all Ukrainians, in fact, two secret meetings of the key committees are from agrarian and budgetary issues. These included questions that are now trying to bring into the agenda, including changes to the Budget Act 2019. Similarly, the bill concerning the gas transport system is, in fact, extremely important for the country, and it is our serious negotiations with the European society, but it is not acceptable when similar laws are put into order for the day-to-day moment. And we want to look to Parliament's leadership, to the government, to Mr. Kobolev. With all due respect to you, we are prepared to work together on such important issues, but we need to organize the work of Parliament. The factions have the right to study the laws, to submit alternative laws, and voters have the right to know what these changes are about in the 2019 budget, whether there is corruption, lobbyism.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u119	Thank you, Irina Volodymyrno. I would really like to ask our colleagues from the government to make bills and proposals. I understand that they are very important, but they would still have come to the Ukrainian Parliament earlier in order for us to get to know these bills, to make the necessary adjustments and to join in this important process for the State. Moreover, most of the national MPs generally support these initiatives. Dear colleagues, first. I'll give you my word now, but we need to continue our session. And the second. It's to change the order of the day, just the ones that were offered. Please tell me, do you support this routine? Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, wait, we have very little time, Sergey Vladislavovich. We have very little time, I'll give, well, I promised I'd give my word. We need to continue our work, vote on the order of the day that I just read, and then I'll give it as we agreed. Okay? But I'm asking you to support everyone, because it was a common position. [[B in m in s a l in]] Julia Volodymyrna. No, come on. Okay. Then I'm going to continue the session for 15 minutes so we don't get out of the way. I give you my word, three minutes, there was an offer from two factions to take a break with the replacement for the performance. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, this is about selling agricultural land right now, which is what we would like to talk about. You know that today 73 percent of Ukrainian citizens are against the sale of land and 81 percent against the sale of land to foreigners. At the same time, more than 70 percent want to hold a referendum on this subject. This is a very serious signal from society. The last agrarian committee meeting was a very tumultuous one. There came representatives of the public organizations of the agrarians. You know, 151 local councils have decided not to adopt land - selling laws in any case, require the moratorium to continue and then find out how to make Ukraine stay with the land. But despite all the decisions, there was a meeting today, not a meeting -- an agrarian committee meeting. The appointed committee was at 2:30 p.m., and members of the committee, representatives of the public, were to come, but at night they gathered only those members of the committee who were supporters of the sale of land. And at nine o'clock in the morning, without informing anyone who was an opponent, they held meetings and passed the law that gave us the right. Not the law, but the decision to support a bill that gives the right to sell land to foreigners and gives the right to sell more than two hundred ten thousand hectares of land in one hand. Clearly, this needs to be corrected today. I want to thank the Head of the Supreme Council, who has assembled factions leaders. We spoke this question in very detail, and we found an understanding. We don't think there was an agrarian committee today because it was just a meeting of deputies. And the Head of the Supreme Council agreed that the actual committee meeting would be held next week with the participation of the public, with the participation of all those who can explain why 72 percent of the territory of our country cannot be sold today -- the agricultural land. Dear friends, I think it's about all of us. It's not power and opposition. We need to be very careful about this, not selling agricultural land today. Rent, making order in this sector, raising our farmers about a million and a half, like in Poland, and then thinking about what to do with the land. In the meantime, it's just rent. I thank you for understanding and for the factions of the "Serve of the People" and the Head of the Supreme Council for finding a way out of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, three minutes, three minutes, one minute. One minute. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, certainly the parliamentary group "For the Future" supports the decision not to take into account today's meeting of a committee that has already been called to meetings, because selling Ukrainian land is the only challenge facing Ukraine today. This is the only asset that's not growing. This is Ukraine’s greatest wealth. And it's mindless to make decisions at night on how to sell land to foreigners in Ukraine, sorry, it's not a method that should be in Parliament. So we support that there should be a public discussion, a public meeting, and only so publicly making a decision that will continue with the Ukrainian land. Because the fate of thousands, tens of thousands of farmers who will either own this land or go nowhere, the fate of Ukrainian citizens, pensioners, their future, how much this land will cost, whether it will remain in the hands of Ukrainians, or whether it will go hand in hand. Thank you. Our position is: public discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we really agreed that the next meeting of the committee would take place, but in a week, in the next plenary week. Dear colleagues, I've just been approached by colleagues from the Budget Committee, Alexander Truhin, please turn on the microphone. We have another question, 2144, it's in order of day. Please turn on the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u124	Good afternoon! It is a very big request to add Bill 2144 to the debate today, because it is systematically related to the budget of Ukraine 2020, and without this bill it is impossible to review the budget text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u125	Thank you. That is to say, it is suggested that we consider four bills. 2144, it was in order of day, and it was necessary to continue to consider the State Budget Bill. Next: Draft State Budget Act 2020 (2000). The next bill 2239, 2239-1, is a billing so-called. And the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2019 (2283). Please tell me, will there be a point to this question? No, it's not. You've already talked about this, Irina Volodymyrna. Dear colleagues, I propose. I'll give you my word. Dear colleagues, I suggest you continue our work before. Do we have to vote in favour of this agenda as described above? Yeah. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote for the agenda that I have just heard. The materials were yours. The materials you needed were given out. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I'm asking you to support the people's deputies, because this was a common position that we've just reached.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u126	Except for the 19th year, yeah, there's a moment. But that's only 25 percent of what we're looking at right now. Please support and vote. [[13:59:40]] For 285 Against 0, hold on to 41. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose to continue the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine before we work out the entire agenda that has just been proposed for the rest of the day. Please support and vote. [[14:00:19]] For-300 Against - 2, holding - 23. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. I give my word, yes. Svoslav Ivanovich Vakarczuk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u127	Rachman's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u128	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u129	Dear colleagues. Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. We have problems periodically for the same reasons. And I sincerely hope that me and my colleagues in faction, and my colleagues in Parliament in general, hope that this will be the last time. Let us, however, begin to learn respect for the Rules so that the Bills are submitted in accordance with the Rules, so that time is given for the submission of alternative Bills in accordance with the Rules, so that the agenda is as it is introduced. Then we will not have such problems, nor will we waste time on long negotiations, and so that we do not have doubtful committees, strange meetings that are being held by committees. Let's still respect each other, respect the Rules and respect Parliament together. And that goes for both the government and the President and some of our colleagues who somehow don't respect the body they work in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u130	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. In fact, Parliament has been working recently, and within the proposed agenda, if changes are made, they are taking place with respect to the Rules, we are not in violation of the Rules. And, really, I can't help but support your position, I'm talking to our colleagues, which is, again, I repeat, initiatives from different branches of government have come to Parliament according to existing legislation. Thank you. The word is given for Boyk Yuri Anatolyevich, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u131	Thank you. Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs, I'd like to say that today we've all become hostages to the ultimatum of government and its unprofessional work. Because in such a regime, making extremely important laws is just the way to go. And we're holding. And we support the changes to the agenda, and we support the changes to the 2019 budget from just one point of view -- just so that miners get a billion dollars out of the debt they're waiting for, because people just eat nothing in the mines, nothing to do with the brakes when they go down the mine. And that's why we're supporting Bill 2019. But for the future, we demand that the work be planned and taken into account the laws of factions, not just of monotonousness, but of our own. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u132	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are invited to consider the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (Registration No. 2144). It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[2:04:02]] For 246 Decision taken. The report is given to Deputy Minister Jigir Yuri Anatoliyovich. Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u133	Congratulations, fellows! Your view is on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code, which is designed to address issues related to the preparation of the draft State Budget Act for 2020 with amendments to legislation. So this is its integral part, which will allow us to look at and manage the 2020 budget further. The implementation of the bill will improve the administration of payments; ensure that budgets are filled at different levels; ensure stable and timely financial security for education and health; improve the management of social spending on the provision of benefits, housing subsidies to the population to pay for the services of the JCG; and improve the management of solid fuel and cumbersome gas. It will also ensure a balanced state budget, promote better implementation of the budgetary process, improve budget implementation efficiency and ensure the sustainability of the budget system. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u134	Thank you, Your Honor. The report is given to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on the budget of Kubbit Yuri Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u135	Honourable Dmitry Aleksandrovich, distinguished national MPs and invited, the Committee on Budget Affairs on October 16th considered the government bill 2144 on amending the budget code, which is systematically linked to the 2000 Bill on the State Budget for 2020. Thus, in order to ensure consistency and balance of the budget, such bills must be considered, worked out and adopted in a mutually agreed manner. The Committee on Budget Affairs has examined a bill that takes into account the findings of the General Scientific and Expert Office and the Association of Cities and has pointed out that the individual provisions of the bill are questionable or do not comply with the rules of the Budget Code, and therefore the issues raised in the bill need further elaboration and settlement of the second reading, as detailed in the Committee's conclusions. In particular, it is worth noting among the issues involved in the bill. First, the reduction in the volume of the State Regional Development Fund, as well as the expansion of cases, the identification of new budgetary programmes and the right of the government to make individual transfers, budgetary allocations without parliamentary control. Secondly, the inclusion in the public budget expenditure for higher education of personnel in private higher education institutions and the forecasting of new social assistance costs without prior legislative harmonisation of such assistance in the basic law. Thirdly, the consolidation, on a permanent basis, of the targeted allocation of regulatory contributions paid by energy and utilities operators to ensure the activities of the NCRECR. It should be noted that there are also other bills on the Committee's consideration regarding amendments to the Budget Code, so depending on their status, their consideration and adoption of the bill 2144 may require clarifications to harmonize the legal rules. We pay particular attention to the national MPs who are unable to be considered at this time to submit proposals to Bill 2144 with separate letters or proposals to Bill 2000 because, in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules, the committee has the right to deal with proposals made by national deputies only after adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u136	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u137	Only after the bill was adopted as a basis. Thus, with a view to resolving the issues identified by the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Supreme Council recommends bill 2144 to be adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u138	Let me make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u140	Speak again, make the decision of the committee the last sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u141	The Committee on Budget Issues recommends to the Supreme Council Bill 2144 to adopt it as a basis for further consideration by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u142	Thank you. Please register by faction: two in favour, two in opposition. Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u143	Rostislav Pavlovenko, "European Solidarity". Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u144	Alexeiovich Honcharenko
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u145	Thank you. Honcherenko Alexei, European Solidarity, north of Odessa. Dear friends, there's a big question before this bill, let's follow them. First. The bill proposes to determine the State Regional Development Fund for a maximum of one percent. I want to remind you now, at least one percent. We feel the difference, don't we? I think this is an extremely important development of the regions of Ukraine and the State Fund of the Regional Fund with competitive project selection funded by the State budget. Why do we make such changes? Moreover, this puts the entire DFRD planning and distribution system at risk. Because these competitions are held during a period that precedes the planned one. The other one. We today have written in the Code of Budgets, which should have the State support of agricultural producers at least one percent, but is once again proposed to do not more than one percent. Once again, the attack on agricultural producers is far from the first. There is no mention of the village in the draft budget. By the way, Mr. Prime Minister, I am addressing you at all! Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I am addressing you! Dear Mr. Prime Minister, at last, hears, thank you. You did not plan for the 2020 budget for any of the village’s monetary support, except for the agricultural land purchase program. It's a law we haven't adopted yet, and it's not on the calf, it's not on the gardening, it's not on the farmers. Everything that's always been in the government budget for years, you've left nothing behind, and in the Budget Code you're proposing to do no less. The Association of Ukrainian Cities has made a number of comments on this, and in general, I invite colleagues not to vote for it in this paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u146	Thank you. Tzabal Volodymir Volodymyrovich, faction of the Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u147	Please pass the word to Sosun Inni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u148	Again, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u149	Other Sussoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u150	Inna Sowsun, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u151	Good afternoon, fellow Prime Minister, colleagues from the government! The Voice faction in general is ready to support that draft law that is now being considered in the first reading. But at the same time, I would like to draw attention to the need for some adjustments in the preparation of the document for the second reading. In particular, the draft law provides that educational subsidies will not be used to finance schools with fewer than 30 students. I understand what the government is trying to do by solving the problem of small-scale schools. But I would very much like to point out that we have schools in high-rise areas, and it is very important to check whether there are schools in high-rise areas that, for objective reasons that cannot be solved, will always be smaller by definition and will be less than 30 people or less than 50 people, which is also proposed by the bill of law since the 22nd year of school, less than 50 people will not be financed. So I would ask that the government pay attention to the problem of higher schools because they cannot be greater for objective reasons. And it would be very important to make these revisions in preparation for the second reading. In all others, we are generally prepared to support this draft law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u152	Thank you. Please, Victor Vasilovich Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u153	Please pass the word to Taras Batenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, well, we see by reviewing the draft Ukrainian Budget Code for 2020 both the positive and the negative sides of this bill. To the positive, we attribute the concept of professional higher education, where sources of funding are provided, to the correct terminology in the Budget Code. We take the excise tax out of local income 13 percent, but we compensate it with the licenses for fuel production, for the right to wholesale trade in fuel. These are all positives. But the same is true of the negative that we are paying attention to where we see it. We refer to the negative inclusion of the fund balances of the budget institutions' own revenue into the sources of the creation of the special fund of the State Budget of Ukraine. Thus, budget institutions will now actually receive smaller revenue from the government budget than before, and will depend excessively on the changing factor of their own revenue. We exclude the Committee on Budget Affairs, which would have affected the redistribution of government budget expenditure to centralised measures between administrative and territorial units, and obviously DFRD. What I agree with my colleagues when we prescribe that the State Regional Development Fund is defined by not more than 1 percent of the projected total budget income, I think it will hit us on many regional scale projects in Ukraine. So right now we're asking the government to support a rule that will allow the DFRD to set at least one percent, as it is today. In that case, our parliamentary group "For the Future" is ready to support the draft Ukrainian Budget Code for 2020 in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u155	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u156	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Looking at the changes to the Ukrainian Budget Code, I would like to point out that the proposed list does not institutionally address the budgetary policy issues proposed in the 2020 budget. All the shortcomings that have been identified there are not included in these changes to the budget code. And what's more, we see that colleagues have already said that, one percent reduction in financing for farmers as well as for the Regional Development Fund, which will also reduce real financial revenues, Another important moment. It indicates that it is proposed to move to the monetary form of aid and housing subsidies for the population, but the draft budget for 2020 is the product of that budget code. And what do we see in it? We can see that there is a reduction in the funding of subsidies for payment and restrictions on utilities from 55 billion to 47 billion dollars. Under these conditions, we can see that these changes do not reflect or correlate with the draft budget that was presented today in the first reading. Well, the most important point, of course, is the definition of a resource base to fill the budget. The budget is filled with a resource base for tax change. to the budget code, which is as much as 383 billion dollars in the revenue part of the budget to be proposed, is a new loan, and in this respect, there is no rule in this amendment to the Budget Code that deals with and regulates the issue of borrowing and vice versa, the increase in revenue. Similarly, the pension fund issue is increasing the deficit and the corresponding amount of expenditure to cover the pension deficit. We don't see these moments in these changes, and so "The Opposition Platform for Life" won't support any change to the Budget Code, because they don't globally address budgetary policy issues for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u157	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich with motive. And I ask you to prepare yourself for the vote, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u158	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, well, it's impossible to support what they've been working on for five years. We've been working on decentralization, so imagine the Winnitz area, taking out, because they're taking excise in local budgets from the area and from all the combined territorial communities 460 million, and they're redistributing 25. Colleagues, what's decentralization? You're fully centralized through the Budget Code. The second is agriculture. I want to remind everyone, we as the authorities promised agriculture when we canceled the security that we would give it support no less than one percent, or even more. What are you doing now? You're going to make a lift from zero to a few percent there, but you're not going to apply the standard that one percent of the support goes to the agrarian sector. With what you've bled out, we, as the authorities, have actually desecrated the agrarian sector by taking the security sector and taking all forms of support from small and medium-sized businesses. Fellows, think! Fatherland won't support the Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Heads of factions, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt as the basis of the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets (Registration No. 2144). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:20:04]] For 264 Against 27, holding 41. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, you have been offered a draft of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2020 (registration number 2000). 2,000, yes. Two thousand, if that's all right with you. Dear colleagues, we are going to consider the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2020 (registration number 2000) in the first reading. In accordance with article 157 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the matter is being discussed in full. In accordance with the Rules, the following procedure is proposed: a report by the deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of Truchin Alexandr Mikolaiovich on the main issues. on the conclusions and proposals for the bill and the results of its consideration, up to 5 minutes; the committee's response to the question, up to 3 minutes; statements by Valery Vasilovich Packana, Head of the Audit Chamber, up to 5 minutes; the Deputy Minister of Finance, Jigira Yuri Anatoliyovich, up to 4 minutes; answers to questions, up to 3 minutes; statements by MPs and groups up to 18 minutes; speeches by national deputies up to 9 minutes; the speech by Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexia Valeriyovich Hončaruk, up to 3 minutes. After that, the decision was made. Is there no objection? Thank you. Dear colleagues, the first reading of the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2020. Excuse me, excuse me. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on the budget of Trukin Alexandr Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, before your consideration of Bill 2000 along with the additions to the committee's letter of 16.10.2019 No. 0413/3-290 given to you. Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Committee on Budget Affairs has been preparing a bill for the state budget for the 20th year. For consideration in the first reading, according to article 156 of the Rules, the Committee thoroughly prepared a bill taking into account the findings of the Court of Auditors and the GNEU. The draft budget for the 20th year has been prepared taking into account government bill 2144 on changes to the budget code. Thus, such laws should be considered and adopted together. The Committee concludes with a general analysis of the provisions and indicators of the bill, including a comparison of the current year and an assessment of the rules of the Budget Code and other legislation. In preparing the bill for the first reading, the budget committee, with the participation of the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, worked out 2,176 amendments to the National Deputies and Committees, which were generalized in the table of proposals. But most of the proposals did not meet the regulatory requirements for their balance. Individual national deputies added only formally balanced proposals to the state budget for the following year. According to a previous estimate, the total budget requirement for the proposals is about 1.9 trillion dollars. According to the committee’s work, a draft Supreme Council Regulation on Conclusions and Proposals for a Bill and a table of legislators has been prepared. In general, the committee proposes to consider the total or part of 772 proposals and to reject 1404 proposals. First of all, it is suggested that we support: First, proposals for the clarification or exclusion of individual bills to comply with the rules of the Budget Code and for the allocation of unallocated expenditure on national security and defence, taking into account the decisions of the PRSP and the state capital investment on the basis of a solution to the proposal of the inter-ministerial commission. Secondly, taking into account individual proposals for social spending mainly on additional public budget expenditure in the following areas: medicine for medicines and treatment of citizens abroad; culture for State support for cinematography and for the implementation of new cultural projects, "The Sewing of the Country is a project for mobility among schoolchildren"; the discovery of the tourist potential of Ukraine; and the creation of the Museum of Modern Art of Ukraine; and the implementation of measures for the patriotic upbringing of young people. And other very urgent things: the development of the Small Academy of Sciences, the development of sport, the modernization of the Olympic training base for athletes, the development of sports among people with disabilities and their physical and sporting rehabilitation. Thirdly, to increase the costs of public investment projects and environmental protection. And to provide subsidies to local budgets for the creation and repair of sports complexes in schools, socio-economic development of territories, construction and repair of sports pools, sports palaces, compensation for the work of children's sports schools. At the same time, it is suggested that the Government should be entrusted with the second reading to carefully address the issue of increasing income, taking into account accurate forecasting macro-indicators and adopting the Supreme Council in September/Yellow profiling bills, improving the administration of taxes and assemblies, introducing legislative initiatives on taxation issues, raising public social standards, primarily subsistence minimum and minimum wage, establishing new increased aid at the birth of a child, providing adequate financial security for the salaries of pedagogical workers. Yesterday, the committee further considered the individual proposals and made the appropriate decisions in an additional letter of conclusion. In addition, there is another additional proposal that is proposed to support: to include amendments to the proposed proposals under headings 1344, 1345, 1346, and to increase the expenditure of the National Academy of Legal Sciences. In connection with this paragraph, 220 parts of the second budget conclusions should be supplemented by new sub-items: "2.20 under the budget programme "Science and Organizational Activities of the Presidium of the National Academy of Legal Sciences of Ukraine" (Code 6581020) under the budget programme "Science and Technology in Law and Law" (65810440). In view of the above, the Committee on Budgetary Questions recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the draft Resolution 2000-P on Conclusions and Proposals as a whole as a basis and as a whole prepared by the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u161	Let me continue, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u162	With details in the accompanying list of conclusions of the committee and the proposal, which I have just heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u164	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u165	I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u166	We're done, aren't we? Fellow dignitaries, the Head of the Court of Auditors is invited to the report. Is that right? Wait a second. I'm sorry, because Dmitri Alexanderovich is out. Please answer the committee's questions in three minutes. Request to sign up for a question. After that, the statement by Valery Vasilovich Packana, Head of the Court of Auditors, will take up to five minutes. Please come out of the place. Mamka's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u167	Please pass the Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u168	Can I please pass it on to whom?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u169	Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u170	Dear reporter! I'd like to turn around. I'm here. Dear reporter, Coltunovich. 228 rights to the 2020 budget project. I would like to ask you first of all a question about funding the National Academy of Sciences and Industrial Sciences, such as the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. There is a question of underfunding. On the one hand, people go and work 2-3 working days a week. It's a question that can't be in a normal civilized country. Because if we don't finance science in Ukraine, we're technologically distant from all the leading countries in the world. Why do Minfin, the budget committee and the government in general define such a policy, a policy of de-intellectualization? That's the first question. And the second. I didn't hear from you what particular macroeconomic parameters have been changed, if you could call a few in the project before the first reading? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u171	Thank you for your question. First of all, most of the rights you've given have not been balanced or met the rules of budgetary planning and fiscal policy. This is the first time. So they could not be counted. And that was not just the working group's position, but Minfin's. So if you're interested in detail, we can take the time and look at all your suggestions, I can give you a reasonable answer to why and, in fact, what they haven't correlated with. As far as you're concerned about supporting the development of education in Ukraine. I want to point out that paragraph 122.10, notice the decree given to you, 122.11, 122.12.12, 122.13 and 122.14 apply to education. Also, I'm sorry. As for science, the money that was not provided for in the draft first budget, which was presented to us in the Supreme Council, includes additional development costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u172	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u173	As a result, money is included in the Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. If you haven't found any action in the draft, then I can show you which part.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u174	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna, political party "European Solidarity". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u175	Jan Zinkevich, "European Solidarity." Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u176	Alexei Hotcharenko, north of Odessa.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Alexander, I have another question. We've all seen that the government has put forward a draft budget where there's no support for the village, in fact, in all the important programs, in the directions -- both gardening and animalry, and in the purchase of technology, and so on. I would like to thank the Committee on Budgets for considering the rights that our faction "European Solidarity" and I personally have given to the government's so-called mandate to consider the possibility of renewing these programmes and predicting funding for them. I would like to hear your position on whether we need to bring this issue to an end in further consideration of the budget issue and return support to the Ukrainian village? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u178	Thank you for the right question. In fact, we worked with you on all of this in the working groups. In fact, there were many different thoughts about this position. But I would like to point out to colleagues that, along with a colleague who asked questions, we have also foreseen an increase in the programme mentioned in paragraph 122. 8, you can look at 122.17.18 on the APC. And separate APCs and nature conservation 122.44, such programs and 22.20.4. But if you and I are going to look at it all in a complex, we think that the government that we've chosen today should form a clear position of support, the nucleus with which it sees the development of agriculture. And when you look at the first and second readings, you and I will be able to join the working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u179	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. All right, we're out of questions. Thank you. The report is given to the Head of the Accounting Chamber, Valery Vasilovich Puckan, within 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u180	Good day, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich! Dear national MPs, members of the government! The Court of Auditors carried out an expert study on the draft State Budget Act 2020 and approved the relevant conclusions and proposals to the Supreme Council. Ukraine needs rapid economic growth, how can it be facilitated through the state budget? First. We know that much of the economy is in the shadows. Every year, various schemes from Ukraine generate funds commensurate with foreign direct investment planned by the government. First of all, there is a need to improve tax and congregation administration in order to make it convenient to work legally and to leave the money earned in Ukraine. Just one example. Last year we conducted an audit of the efficiency of managing revenues from the state budget from fuel implementation. It turns out that in two years, the volume of the shadow market for petrol and diesel could be up to 4.6 million tons, and the budget was undertaxable for up to 20 billion dollars. We've made specific proposals and recommendations to the State Fiscal Service to improve this work from the administration of this excise. Happy is the result. The Tax Code has already been amended accordingly. The other one. In recent years, the economy has been growing at the expense of trade, while industry, especially the manufacturing industry, is stagnation. As a result, there was a dangerous trend in the overall sales of parts of consumer goods produced in Ukraine. So every year we lose our own internal market, which is more filled with imported goods. We need to find and implement tools to stimulate, not to export raw materials from our country, but to recycle them here. Third. Credit. For a long time, the state, by borrowing considerable funds to finance the budget, created conditions when banks became more comfortable investing resources, not in the real economy, but in government securities. The Court of Auditors welcomes and supports the government's need to reduce the government's deficit, reduce the volume of domestic government loans and reduce their income. This will further contribute to the development of credit. About the income part of the budget. We estimate that it is possible to increase today's revenue portion of the State budget by 20.8 billion, i.e. the operating price of 15.2 billion dollars and the added cost of importing goods into customs territory by 5.6 billion dollars. According to expert conclusions, 10 percent of the removal from the shadow of customs goods is 5.6 billion dollars. Count 20-30 and so on. In addition to the available income, additional reserves are evidenced by a number of our audits. In particular, this year we conducted audits on the arrivals of the only congregation that manages the crossing points across the state border. The Court of Auditors proposes to draw on the experience of countries in Europe and to establish a single congregation of light cars with foreign registrations. We estimate that this will allow for an additional contribution of about 2.4 billion dollars to the government budget. In addition, an audit of the efficiency of the use of the funds of the Special Fund of the State Budget of Ukraine by the State Security Service for Transport has shown the possibility of increasing the budget's income by increasing the measures of haberdashery and weight control, in particular the payment of fines for breaches in this area. In addition, the people's deputies, you passed the bill on September 11th. Another important moment. The social component of the state budget is based on the size of the subsistence minimum. The Court of Auditors has repeatedly pointed out the problems of determining this indicator. The proposed subsistence minimum is 1.7 times smaller than its actual size, and experts estimate that the level of absolute poverty is twice as low. Physical minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u181	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u182	The physiological minimum for human life is defined by the UN international criteria — $5 a day for Central and Eastern European countries. It will be a pleasure to see that you have made a decision on the parliamentary hearings that will take place on December 18th. the decisions to hold parliamentary hearings on the minimum of living. In preparing these parliamentary hearings, I hope you will take into account the report of the Court of Auditors on the strategy for overcoming poverty. I just want to assure you that this year's Nobel Prize in Economics is awarded precisely for scientific development in overcoming poverty. We need to be very careful about that, and we need to do something about it. The last messaging. Cost planning. This rostrum has already talked once about spending planning for the following year, and the available resources need to be planned effectively. The annual increase in the decisions of the Cabinet on the redistribution of budgetary resources is evidenced by the shortcomings of planning, the year 2017 was 77, the year 2018 – already 99, we keep talking about this problem. I very much want the next budget to be for the people and the President, and the government to declare such positions. It's up to you, people's deputies, now the first reading, the balanced budget for the next year will enable us to develop our state and develop our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u183	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u184	What about the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u185	No, no questions asked. Dear colleagues, before. The Rules do not provide for a question to the Head of the Court of Auditors. Dear colleagues, the Deputy Finance Minister of Ukraine Jigir Yuri Anatoliyovich is invited to speak in 4 minutes. After this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u186	Thank you, colleagues. I'm short. On September 15th, we submitted to the Supreme Council a draft budget for the 20th year, which was balanced and realistic. Since then, the working group has worked very actively on many of the rights given by factions and national deputies. The main task of the working group in the process of the State Budget project in the Supreme Council was to maintain the balance of its indicators and to ensure that it is implemented realistically. It is critical to note that the draft regulation, in which the conclusions of the budget committee are drawn, proposes to increase the income of the general budget of the State budget by 17.8 million dollars, in particular on the basis of additional incomes from the net income and dividends of 6 billion. It is worth noting that this requires a 90 - percent retention rate. Additional income from a holding lease of 1.6 billion, additional revenues from an internal VAT of 1.1 billion dollars and an import VAT of 5.6 billion dollars. The projected resource is also an additional three - and - a - half - billion dollars from the NBA. This requires the position of the National Bank. The draft budget conclusions provide a number of government tasks in line with the proposals of the National Deputies, Committees, factions, their working groups in preparation for the 20th year of the State Budget project for the second reading. One such task is to increase the income and expenditure of the State Budget project, taking into account the refinement of the main macroeconomic indicators for economic and social development next year. The government is currently working on clarifying the main macroeconomic projections for economic development. So after the government's decision to clarify the macro indicators for the 20th year, it's possible to calculate the detailed budget figures for the 20th year, in particular the income portion. Minfin, together with the government, together with the authorized representatives of the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council, is ready to deal with the proposals of the National Deputies, Committees, factions, priority groups set by the President of Ukraine and the Government's priority action plan to determine the direction of increasing the public budget's spending within the balance of its 20th year. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u187	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to enroll the National Deputies on a question to the Deputy Minister. It's three minutes. Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u188	Arthur Gerasimov, European Solidarity. Please pass the word to Mustafa Jemiliev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u189	Mustafa Jemiliev. Microphone, please turn it on. Oh, no cards. Please insert a card. Cemiliev. Please turn on the microphone. Do you have the microphone on?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u190	Yeah, yeah. After the occupation of Crimea, the Minister’s Honorary Deputy Minister, known to be the world’s only Crimean Tatar channel, ATR, was covered by the invaders and became a broadcaster in Crimea from the mainland of Ukraine 24 hours a day in three languages: Ukrainian, Russian, and indigenous. Of course, about 45 million dollars were allocated annually to this channel, although these funds were apparently insufficient, and other sources of assistance had to be sought. The 2020 draft budget does not provide for a single copy of the channel, which may result in the channel being closed. On this subject, I sent a letter to the budget committee asking for 251120.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u191	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u192	In addition, to the 20 million dollars foreseen there, give 55 million dollars to rebuild the construction of primary facilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u193	Colleagues, I'm sorry, well, it can't be like that either. Telekanal ATR, financing ATR.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u194	Well, until the second reading, we're going to work out all the conclusions that are presented by the people's deputies and are brought together by the budgetary committee, and we're going to propose solutions within the balance sheet.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u195	Thank you. Pavlješ Pavel Vasilovich, political party "Serve of the People". Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u196	Thank you. Please tell me I have not been able to ask the representative of the budget committee here, but I was informed that paragraph 2.5 is. 4, which means in my conclusions, I'm going to read this: "Look at the possibility of increasing the revenue of the State budget project for 2020 for the added value tax on the basis of legislative regulations, exemption from tax on grain and technical exports instead of zero tax." If we say we support agriculture, how do we support it if we take 18 percent of their income? Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u197	So all the resource proposals supported by the budget committee I've already mentioned. A number of proposals were made for potentially additional resources due to changes in the administration and regulation of the value added tax. These proposals are declared in the conclusions of the committee, and we will consider them in preparation for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u198	Andriovich Zinovy Miroslavovich. All right, good fellows, time's up - 0 minutes. I'm sorry. Thank you, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen, please register representatives of the MP factions and groups for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u199	As provided by the Rules. Royal Natalia Yuriovna, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, "The Opposition Platform for Life" does not explicitly support this draft budget for 2020. And the main reason why we offered you an alternative proposal when you put a major target in the budget for 2020 is to solve people's problems, it's to protect people, it's to support the economy, it's to protect those who need it today. But, unfortunately, what does the government offer today? It's a living minimum of 72 dollars, it's a minimum pension of 58 dollars, it's a minimum wage of 167 dollars, reduced subsidies, underfunded education and medicine. Well, I'm sorry, it's all the continuation of the abuses on the people that were initiated by the previous authorities. We initiated a difference in health care reform. We've initiated a review of the pension reform. We've initiated a review of education reform. Unfortunately, the government does not want to. They want to continue the reforms of Suprun, they want to continue Groisman's politics, they don't want to make an effort today to protect people, to balance human security and military security in the 2020 budget. Well, you can't, when you found the money for everything, for all the skins you can, but unfortunately, you didn't find the money to protect people today. The Opposition Platform for Life offered you an additional $260 billion today, at which time you can give the minimum wage of 5,000,569, a minimum pension of 4,000,500 dollars, a minimum wage of 7000, 713 dollars. For 22 billion we offered to raise the cost of education, for 30 billion to fund medicine, to keep state subsidies in full for housing and utilities, and we offered you an algorithm to reduce people's tariffs today. Sadly, you do not want to do this today. So we urge you not to accept this budget today, but to send this government budget for work. You can't accept the budget today, not the fight against poverty, but the fight against the poor, because you're offering to take away the last person. We're against this budget project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u201	Thank you. Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u202	Please, the word of Volodymyr Cabal, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u203	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u204	Tzabal Volodymir, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, on the one hand, the Committee on Budget Affairs has worked hard on the amendments made by the people’s deputies. And thanks to these amendments, there have been substantial increases in budget revenues that, as a result of the committee's consideration, have been directed towards some of the very important things for Ukrainians. Such as increasing funding for drug purchases, such as cultural development, digitization, and increasing some of the social costs for the population of Ukraine. On the other hand, a lot of important things, a lot of important priorities that have been marked by both the President and the government, are not yet sufficiently reflected in these changes that are being proposed. In particular, I want to pay attention to one thing, this is funding the education sector, increasing the wages of teachers. As we know, the previous government wanted to make this increase, it was the ruling of the previous government, it was the President's promise. There have also been amendments from the National Deputies, from the Committee to an increase of $5.1 billion, this funding. Such things are taken into account, unfortunately, not yet. That's why there are, on the one hand, there are positive things and there are things that I would like to work on. And most of all. We've always said in faction, in the Voice faction, that we're ready to support a newly appointed government in the positive reforms they're going to make. Unfortunately, though, during my consideration of the draft budget, I did not see, if honestly, a sufficient involvement of the government in this work. Because of this work that came out, they didn't always come out systemic. And they don't always reflect the President's priorities and the priorities of the government that have been announced before. Yes, the amendments that have been made are getting a little bit closer, they're going to get a little bit closer to the government's Action Programme, but they're only going to go up by a third. Because of that, the Voice faction is abstaining from voting for the budget conclusions, and we hope that by working on these conclusions, the government will also take into account many priorities that have not yet been taken into account for various reasons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u205	Thank you. Please welcome Honcharenko Alexei, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u206	Honcherenko Alexei, north of Odessa, European Solidarity. It's a pity, dear friends, that we're discussing the budget without the Prime Minister's presence. At first there was no Prime Minister when we asked the question, now there is no Prime Minister again when we are discussing the government budget. I don't know what we're talking about, and who are we talking to? I really wanted to. Oh, great. Mr. Prime Minister is back. Look, when I read this budget, I have a simple question for you. Tell me, are you the Prime Minister of State or a doctor of non-State philosophy? Because I don't know what the budget is. We were told that the era of poverty would be over. We've all heard that. Dear citizens of Ukraine, I address you. This budget does not provide for an increase in the minimum pension in the first half of the year. That's what's left of it-- 1 thousand 630 bucks. And from the second half of the year, 100 bucks is all raised. Minimum wage is 4,000 173. They lift up to 4,000 723 bracelets. That's 12 percent. We're told, well, we can't anymore. And what about the criminal predecessors, for example, in the 2017 budget, we accepted an increase in the minimum wage then by 100 percent. We were able to do it. And what's stopping you now, just 12 percent when you have 7.4 percent inflation? Is this the fight against poverty? Enlightenment. There is an active government decree from July, which envisions a new tariff network for education students, which envisions an increase in education salaries from 20 percent to 70 percent. This decree is not annulled by this government. If you don't like it, cancel it. It's not canceled, you have to do it. What's it supposed to do here? How much money do you think is invested in this budget project? Zero. In fact, there will be no increase in education wage on any real bracelet. It's after talking about $4,000 from Zelensky and his team. What kind of budget is that? I have one simple question for you. What about the village? I've said this a few times before, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, we have a budget that doesn't have any real village aid programs. Not for animal farming, not for technology, not for beekeeping, not for hops, not for gardening, not for anything! We don't need a village? Small priorities, a little question very revealing. Telekanal The ATR that we have to fight for Crimea, do we have that change in strategy? Where is the ATR channel in the budget? He's gone. Of course, such things need to be corrected. I'm risking it. The end of the age of poverty does not come. This is news. And to you, Mr. Prime Minister, I want to tell you. I gave you the book How to Manage Government. In just two weeks, you did not find time to read it, so you have a stake from Ukrainian teachers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u207	Thank you. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna. Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u208	Dear friends! We were asked yesterday by all the faction leaders, almost all the faction leaders, and please tell us, what is your strategy for developing the country for the next year, 5 years, 10 years, 30 years? And faction leaders reported it to society yesterday. And after the report came in, the reporter said that I realized that your strategy was tight. I can say that next year's budget is a key change strategy in the country for the next year. I'd like to do it for three years, but it's real for a year. And that's why we all know that people expect from all authorities some fundamental, philosophical change in how we plan the country's life for the next year. And you know, well, you all know, you filed the budget for Groysman. But it can be changed. You can make it truly beautiful, as everyone needs it today. And what we're going to do now as proposals for the new 2020 budget is to preserve a completely old approach to shaping the country's life for a year. That's the question. And that's why, the first thing we offered. We suggested, dear friends, if we have a quick adoption of laws, let's adopt one of the first laws, that's two, more faithfully, about de-offshoring the country. We worked together with the European Union on an ideal model where no one could work with offshores. This is the first year -- plus 67 billion to the income line, that's enough for a week to do it. But it's not counted. The other one. That we have not seen a significant increase in revenue from the legalization of goods flows through customs. Third. We haven't seen with you a new approach to detining the economy from the point of view of the new tax system. You know, 49 percent in the shadow of the economy. What does it consist of? Offshore - once, wrong tax system - two and three - customs. These are the key three elements, and we can have a completely different income part of the budget, and quickly, this is not a long time. And that's why these things aren't counted. In addition, you know that the course is falling. More loyally, the rate of the bracelet is being strengthened, the external borrowing costs are declining. We have to put it in the income section. There's an old system of tariffs and subsidies reduction, there's a minimum level of living, not even for pensions and minimum wages, there's no step in the investment policy of the state, there's no other health policy, there's the reform of Suprun, well, we don't support that with you. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u209	Let's finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u210	So, of course, we can't support such an editorial. We've given a full lecture on income and expenditure on how to make a real pragmatic but a different budget. So let's do it now. Of course, our faction doesn't support it, but the real budget let's do it to others. We're ready to cooperate.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u211	Thank you. Larissa Mikolayevna. Igor Palitza, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u212	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Of course, we support the visions of the budget of all our colleagues in parliament who have spoken before it from this rostrum. The budget is short, the budget is not for the people, the budget is not for Ukraine and not for the Ukrainians. We had a long discussion in the group, to support the budget in the first reading or not to support it. And I'll tell you what we came up with and we urge you, colleagues, to support the budget in the first reading. If we bring him back to the government now, the government will do nothing about him. The government isn't alone, the government keeps telling us about some new external economic or external political questions that we need to do. We cannot wait for a normal budget for Ukrainians from the government. So in order not to delay time, the Group "For the Future" will vote in favour of the budget in the first reading just so that Parliament can get it back to itself, the budget committee, together with the deputies, started working on it. And we're with you, along with the "Serial of the People" faction, all together made a budget for Ukraine and for the Ukrainians. And in closing, I want to go to the Ministry of Finance, and I want to go to the Committee on Budgets: what happened today with the distribution of socio-economic money is not good and not good. And my dear friends and colleagues, I suggest that we continue to share the socioconomy, if there is such an article and the financial opportunity allows, proportionally, for every majority district, regardless of who's on the committee. Don't treat your colleagues in Scottish who don't know what's going on and who don't take part in the budget distribution. I don't want to say drunk. Let's treat each other with respect and we're always ready to stretch out our hand and support each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u213	Thank you, Igor Petrovich. I would like you to sign up for the National Deputies. Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u214	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! My colleague from the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" Natalie Royal, speaking from the faction, made it clear that our political power is not planning to support the draft budget bill for 2020. So there are several reasons. The first reason is that we put more than 200 rights into the budget, which was actually an alternative to the budget. None of these are accepted. I definitely don't agree with a colleague who, on the question of our rights from another colleague of mine, Mr. Koltunovich, said that these were unbalanced, that's absolutely not the case, these regulations regarding the increase in the income and expenditure of our budget for 260 billion gave our faction absolutely, referring to the clear sources of where this money could be taken. First of all, we think it's pretty serious plus it would give us to remove the blockade from temporarily uncontrollable territories, businesses that are in temporarily uncontrollable territories, and it would give us a serious plus to the state budget. Moreover, there is absolutely no incentive in the budget for the development of the national economy, to stimulate national exports, to boost consumer markets and domestic consumer demand, is primarily raising social standards. From this rostrum it's already called a clear figure, the numbers that can't exist without any human being, that's the minimum of living, it has to be not less than 5,000,569 dollars. And if it's not there, all the other indicators have to be calculated from that. One such serious moment. You're betting 4.4 billion dollars on agricultural loans. And you're planning them, these costs are going to be directed to, as if farmers can get loans to participate in the land market that you're planning to open up literally, I think you're planning to do it next week. This is a completely wrong policy, because to date, the National Bank's credit rate of 16 and a half percent and credit rates of not less than 21 percent is virtually impossible to get normal loans. And this money is absolutely not going to help develop the agricultural sector. And your message that this is going to give 1 percent of GDP growth is completely wrong because it's increasing. At the expense of land sales, one percent of GDP growth is a completely wrong policy. "The Opposition Platform for Life" is in no way planning to support this budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u215	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich. Victor Vasilovich Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u216	Thank you. Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! We're coming up now, in the first reading, we're looking at the State Budget project for the next year. It's probably the most important document to be adopted every year, because it determines what will be the State's development strategy for at least as short a period as the following year. Today, the main questions that people are asking should be answered in the form of an answer in the draft budget. What troubles people? We all know who was elected in the districts. The most painful question today is treatment. Where you don't come, there's no money, there's no drugs, there's no funding on the ground, and there's not enough funding for national institutions that treat severe diseases, oncology, and so on. We've made adjustments that allow you to fund these measures, to fund powerful programs for the treatment of childhood diseases, heart attacks, strokes -- these programs to fund extra, oncology -- to fund them. Because that's what bothers people. The other one. People are worried about tariffs. We've spoken over and over and over again, and today we've made corrections, and we're proposing instead of just handing out a subsidy, including powerful energy conservation programs in the next budget. Put the money in place, they'll replace the windows, the doors, the warming of the houses, the replacement of the boiler room. Communiqués have to do the same. Then we will not raise tariffs, we will reduce the cost of consumers today. The third part. What worries people the most today? Work. We're offering programs to support just new jobs. There's supposed to be small business support programs when you don't get 20-25 percent credit for buying new equipment for manufacturing, and so you can get government support for taking and getting new modern equipment for starting jobs. If you create 100 jobs in a company, it's one level of support, 500 jobs -- second level of support, over 2,000 jobs -- it's got to be a completely third level of support. Such programs should be prepared for the second reading, counted, and then young people will return to Ukraine. And the last one is a mortgage support program. That is, the opportunity for young people to buy housing in a loan. These programs need to be supported and somehow stimulated and shown by the State in the draft budget. If you don't do this, the young will run away because there's no business support, no support for where to live and no prospects. So we suggest that we take these revisions into account and consider them next to the second reading. Again, treatment is powerful, industry support software, energy conservation software, support for job creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u217	Thank you, Victor Vasilovich. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u218	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I would like to say and point out to our audience that the nominal increase in income and expenditure planned for 2020 is being offset by inflation and devaluation processes. We've counted the cumulative index of industrial prices, we've calculated that in the 13th year price, if we compare it, the 20th to 19th year fall by 14.5 percent. What does that mean? That 14.5 percent of the budget's real income is declining, and so is the expenditure for 2020. Of course, the authority on 74 bracelets raises the minimum pension by 550 dollars, the minimum wage. But what is the situation? The situation, for example, is the Academy of Sciences. Why did I give this example? Because the same payroll fund does not stimulate or increase the real income of science workers. People only work for 3 working days for 2 working days. And there are thousands of such examples in government institutions. With regard to fiscal decentralization, I would also like to point out that in real terms we have a decline in the income of local budgets. Moreover, if we take the income of local budgets and inter-budget transfers, this figure also falls in nominal terms. I'm not saying any more that real numbers are dropping. Well, most importantly, what I haven't seen and what's not on the Cabinet program, and as a result, it's not in the budget project, is an integrated industrial modernization program. We're an industrial country, we're not a raw country, we're an industry, and we have 17.5 percent of GDP, it's a profitable and reprocessing industry. We need to stimulate the processing industry. And that's why I insist that by the second reading, there should be programs that provide adequate funding to stimulate the industry in Ukraine. And in closing, I want to draw attention to the antisocial norm for reducing subsidies. Reducing the amount of subsidies allocated to subsidies means that the number of households receiving these subsidies is decreasing. And the question here is not even in verification, not in other moments, but primarily in terms of reducing the number of households. We saw this when the amount of subsidies went down from 71 billion dollars to 55. And that's what's going to happen next year when the figure is down from 55 to 47.6 billion dollars. And most importantly, those families that live outside of poverty are those who survive on minimum fixed income. So our proposal is to return at least last year's amount of funds so that people can at least cover the cost of utilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u219	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, I will now give the floor to the closing statement, sorry for the tautology, Prime Minister of Ukraine. But I ask the heads of factions to invite the national deputies to the hall to prepare for the vote. I give the floor to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexia Valeriyovich Honcharuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u220	Dear Head, honourable members of the people, I want to remind you of the general context, we've started working with you very recently. During the first two weeks, we had to introduce a draft budget in accordance with the law. We did it. After that, the budget committee, or deputies, worked out proposals. We can't interfere with the budget at this point. Today I thank you for your willingness and ask you to support your colleagues' budget proposals. Our colleagues are now preparing a macro-prediction for next year. So we're going to figure out how much money we're actually going to have because there's no point in sharing what we don't have. Well, our task now is to understand the realistic article on income and to submit by November 2nd, taking into account everything you said, a normal and real document that we can discuss for the second reading. It's for understanding the general context. We've already done a lot for you to detune the economy. You have voted on two important bills to combat smuggling. Since November 1st, we expect authorization to go to the new customs office created. You've supported a number of bills aimed at reducing the raw economy. They just don't work like that, not right away. It's important to understand. Now you're looking at 1209 and 1210 bills, which are essentially bills for deofshorization and essentially the fight against oligarchs. That's why we're on the right track, colleagues. But it must be remembered that the country has been demolished for decades. And you and I have a couple of weeks to work. So I ask you to support this document, which is prepared by your colleagues on the Committee on Budgets. These are proposals to us, the government, we'll take them into account. And what's more, we've heard all the proposals that are important about energy conservation, about infrastructure projects. All of this will be taken into account. We'll honestly see how much money we have and we'll discuss with you how to spend it most effectively. Thank you very much, and please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u221	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the first reading of the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2020 has been completed. We're moving now. The motive is Trukin. Wait, now, while the colleagues are taking care of their own. He's from the committee. He's from the committee. All of it. Dear colleagues, we are now voting on a basis, and then we will vote in favour of a decision in general. We're not voting on the budget as a whole, we're taking a decision. Just so you all understand. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to Truhina Alexander Mikolayovich of the Committee. A moment of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u222	Thank you. Once again, I would like to point out that the Committee on Budgetary Questions recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis and as a whole, the Committee's draft Resolution 2000 on the conclusions and proposals for a bill with clarifications in an added letter from the committee that I have heard during my report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u223	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. In accordance with article 157 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, I am voting on the draft Budget Committee (registration number 2000-P) on conclusions and proposals for the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2020 for adoption as a basis. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please. Ready? Come in, please. Please support and vote. [[15:20:20]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please show the factions. "People's Servant" – 236, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 1, "For the Future" – 17, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 2. In accordance with article 157 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I am voting on the draft Resolution (Registration No. 2000-P) on conclusions and proposals for the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2020 for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights. Dear colleagues, more than 2,000 rights have been proposed for consideration by the committee, accounting for almost 800. No, you've had a lot of experience, Alexei Alexiyovich, before and now, so we're going to vote. I understand, yes. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Thank you. Please support and vote. [[15:22:04]] For 255 Thank you. 255 – yes. Dear colleagues, I think. Show the factions, please. Political Party "The Servant of the People" – 235, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 1, "For the Future" – 17, "The Voice" – 0, non-fractional – 2. Ladies and gentlemen, on your behalf, I would like to refer to the government to take into account all the suggestions that have come from the National Deputies and have been worked on by the Committee. I hope that our colleagues will have a balanced, sound position and that the 2020 budget will take account of the interests of the people of Ukraine. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You will have before you the proposed draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the separation of natural gas transport activities. To be included in the agenda of the plenary session, we need to vote and win 226 votes. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I'd like you to support that. for inclusion in the agenda. Please support and vote. [[15:23:45]] For 292 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills according to Article 50 of Part Three. There is also a need for support in the 226 votes of Ukraine’s national deputies. Please support and vote. [[15:24:20]] For 270. Dear colleagues, it is proposed to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session, and it also requires 226 votes of support. Please support and vote. [[15:24:49]] For 268. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that the above-mentioned bill be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[15:25:15]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Energy and Housing Services, Mr. Andriy Viktorovich. Give me four minutes, because he'll report as author and co-author and alternate, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, on April 9, 2015, the Law on the Natural Gas Market was passed. The law provides that a gas transport system operator should be licensed to carry out such activities as to provide for the independence and separate operation of such an operator. According to articles 23 and 27 of the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act, two separate models have been approved. The first model approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by Decree No. 840 of 18 September 2019 provides for an Independent System Operator model, an independent system operator. What does Independent System Operator mean? This means that the Ukrainian State Property Fund will transfer Ukraine's gas transport system to the right of ownership of a state-owned company that will be established on the basis of the Ukrainian Railways, which will be subordinated to the Ministry of Finance. The Independent System Operator also foresees that the authority of the Ministry of Finance and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be separate from the administration of the Ukrainian gas transport system. In addition, Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers will remain mandated to make the most important decisions regarding the activities of the Ukrainian gas transport system operator. Why is the adoption of the law that we are considering today important? First of all, without the adoption of this law, we're not going to get certified by a gas transport operator, so we're not going to have an independent operator. Secondly, the non-admission of this bill could undermine the process of negotiations that are currently taking place between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the continuation of the Russian gas transit contract across Ukraine. And thirdly, we need to show the European partnership and the European partners that we are fulfilling our commitments under the Third Energy Package, as well as the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act. This bill has already been supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, Ukrattransgas, Naftogaz, the Energy Society. We have received a letter from the Energy Community today that urges us to adopt the bill and to consider it in the terms permitted by the Rules. On behalf of the committee, we considered the bill on the committee during our meeting yesterday. We had some pretty lively discussions about him. We understand that the bill needs further work. As I understand it, it was agreed that a working group would be set up, after which another committee meeting would be held and the bill would be finalized. This is an extremely important bill. No one speaks of alienation or the giving up of national interests. This is about creating an independent operator that will meet those requirements that operate within the Energy Community. It is therefore recommended that Bill 2239-1 (alternative) be adopted in the drafting of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u225	Thank you, Andry Viktorovich. Please sign up: two in, two in against the committees. From factions, I'm sorry. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u226	Please pass the word to Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u227	Again. Julia Klimenko. Julia Leonidina. Please turn on the air conditioner.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u228	My colleagues, we understand why this bill, we understand that when we adopt this bill, it will give us a firmer position in the negotiations with the European Union and the Russian Federation for gas transit, which will provide us with transit for the next year and later, and this, I want to tell you, is about three billion dollars. The income of our budget. That's why Voice and Voice will support this bill in the first reading, but we're very much asking you to erase the amendment proposed by the committee, and it's distributed in our materials concerning the control of the gas transport system operator. The division of "51 by 49" is definitely unacceptable. Please take this correction away, and we will give our revisions accordingly to the second reading. Otherwise, we do. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u229	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u230	Otherwise, in our second reading, we are not prepared to vote in favour of this bill even if there is an important situation in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u231	Thank you. Gerus Andrey Mihailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u232	Thank you. We are indeed prepared to clear this bill, which was voted on by the committee, and today to vote on this bill as drafted by the drafter of the bill, i.e. without this amendment. And what we want to do, I hope the whole room supports this, is between the first and the second readings, where 100 percent of the company that owns the gas transport system will only belong to a state or state company, 100 percent of which is also owned by the state in the form of the Ministry of Finance. So we're going to provide 100% ownership of the state, and I think this question is going to be removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u233	Thank you. Royal Natalia Yuriovna, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, the situation in the country is really, really important. It is important because, unfortunately, five minutes ago, we voted in favour of Ukraine’s budget, where we did not see any independent government, proper tariffs, or additional subsidies for people, pensions, and wages. Why didn't we ask the government this question: How can people today survive 58 dollars without reducing tariffs? Now we're talking Independent System Operator. It's very important, yes, but it's even more important today to see an independent government working for every citizen in our country. And so far, we have independent Koboljev, who's getting crazy wages, bonuses and everything. And people all pay for these tariffs, for his wages, for the situation that has now taken place in the country. So we insist that we first want to hear the government's tariff policy, first of all we want to see people pay subsidies today, give people normal tariffs, normal pensions, and then put Parliament in that position today, that's all, Karaul, take it, because we haven't saved anything. In due time, Yuri Boyko and Victor Medvedchuk came and showed that there is a desire today and a willingness to sign a contract with Russia, and there is a possibility today that we can get a discount that can be given people a normal price for gas. And you don't have to manipulate this situation right now. We do not support this decision, and we feel that such a decision is not acceptable in our country today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u235	Thank you. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, you know, I've been working in the Ukrainian Parliament for 12 years, but I've never seen such a mess and a mess. When Ukraine’s national deputies, not only from opposition but also from the majority, are given one day’s order, and the day’s order turns out to be completely different. And that the bill, which is part of the country's energy security, which is really very important to our government and to the state in order to strengthen the negotiating positions of power, is essentially out of the voice when we have a committee mess, a management mess, and we don't sign the agenda on time. This has to be stopped, because it's going to end badly for both Parliament and the country. Again and again, we turn to those responsible for this mess. This is the leadership of the Supreme Council, this is the government that has to put an end to this mess. We are statesmen, and that's why our political power today similarly supported the fact that this law needs to be considered, the bill, on the first reading only in the first reading, just to strengthen the negotiating positions of power, which next week mentioned that it is going to major negotiations on Monday. Friends, take a look at your calendars at times. I don't know, there's D.I. calendars, writing calendars, but look at your schedule. This is indeed a very important bill that draws us closer to the Energy Community, and it is in line with our European commitments. And it's fundamental in the context of separating gas and transporting natural gas. But our political power is firmly against all attempts by lobbyism to instill in this law. And we demand that we support the position already echoed by our colleagues in the Voice, including putting a bill to the vote in the papers of the authors without any lobbying amendments that tried to push in at the committee meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u237	Herus Andrey Mikhailovich, a minute from the committee. Yes, Julia Volodymyrna, I see, I will certainly give my word. And the position that we're looking at.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u238	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, indeed, had some warnings about the bill and about what might be the property of the corresponding gas transport system. So we now propose in the first reading to support in that version the original author, which was, and before the second reading is proposed the law, where we prohibit: first, privatization, second, concession, third, rent and fourth, the administration of third parties, which is not a state. In addition, it is suggested that 100 percent of the ownership of the company that runs this gas transport system should be in the state. Not as before, not less than 51 percent, to make 100 percent. And we're going to register this between the first and the second readings. Accordingly, I understand that this will be the consensus of the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u239	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Thank you, Andrey Mikhailovich. Colleagues, please miss Julia Volodymyrna. There's a lot of you. I'm looking at the "Serial of the People" faction being complemented by representatives of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u240	Dear friends, this is about the gas transport system. I'll just give you two digits to figure out what we're dealing with. Our gas transport system is second in power on the European continent, and it has unique natural gas reservoirs, which are essentially priceless. To build this gas transport system from scratch, it takes 300 billion euros, that's three GDP of the country. Well, just in case we feel the scale. And it also brings us $3 billion a year in revenue. These are all expenses that go to defend the country. It's the same size. I can tell you that there's been a hunt on this system for about 15 years. The hunt is very simple: no one is going to buy it for 300 million euros, but they want to own it because of the management of the $3 billion income and income management system. You see, the bush is good. So our position is very simple: yes, we have to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u241	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u242	We need to implement the commitments that we have in the energy package with the European Union and separate the gas transport system from the NAC "Naftogazu" so they don't go bankrupt and cross-subsidize. This is necessary, but it can only be a state-owned enterprise that is not allowed to privatize, manage, concession and any other manipulation. The natural gas pipeline we will be able to load as Ukraine with you is the LNG terminals of Odessa and Mikolai district and the increase in the production of our gas. We can make twice as much money on the operation of our gas transport system. I want to thank the "Serial of the People" faction that this morning, when you're gathered together, you've responded in a civil way to this question, and you've also made a decision that no privatization, no concessions, no governance, and so on. On the first reading, we will not vote. But in the second place, if there's any of these changes, we're going to vote with you to protect our unique strategic property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u243	Thank you. The word is given to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Honcharuk Oleksija Valeriyovich. And, dear fellows, after the Prime Minister's speech, we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u244	Colleagues, situation next. We now have a contract with the Russian Federation to transport gas to Europe. This gives us the opportunity, in fact, to have an income of about $3 billion. That's true. And it's an extremely important asset that we shouldn't lose. We have a situation where this contract ends at the end of this year. The Russians want to keep this contract open for a long time. To do this, including building their currents, you know very well about. It's not an economy, it's the political actions of the Russian Federation to create pressure on us, on Ukraine. We in Ukraine are interested in getting the next long-term contract guaranteed. To do this, we need the support of European partners because we are in negotiations together. To that end, we must bring our system operator to European rules and start a deal with the Russians on European rules. This, says Julia Volodymyrna, provides for the distribution of transportation from mining and trade. That's what this bill is about. It is very important for us today to adopt it in our first reading in order to go to negotiations with the Russians in a strong position next week. Then, in the second reading, we will talk and introduce all the necessary adjustments to the second reading. It's not about privatization, rent, the concession of the gas transport system, it's now forbidden by the Privatization Act, and it's not about concession, it's not about renting a gas transport system.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u245	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u246	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u247	And the preparation schedules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u248	Colleagues, this is about completing negotiations that are very difficult for us to negotiate without any guarantees. But complete the negotiations and get a long-term contract.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u249	Let me finish, please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u250	Thank you very much. Excuse me, please. It's just very important. It's a strategic story. So it is important for us to conclude negotiations with the Russians and have as strong a position as possible to have the best chance of success in these negotiations. We're ready to share with you information about the negotiating strategy, about what we're going to do, but of course not from the Supreme Council's rostrum. We think we need to talk about this, maybe in a little bit more of a working mode. But it's very important to us in the next 10 days, by 1 November, to have amended legislation that will allow us to go through our operator's certification by the end of the year. I want to remind you that this was going to be done for many years, that is, it hasn't been done for many years. We did it in the government, in two weeks we accepted the model, 10 days later, literally 15 days later, we proposed the first bill, 10 days said the law. This involves the speed at which we now work. So, my friends, you and I have one goal and one goal. I ask you very much to support this bill in the author's first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u251	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this has been said many times before, but once again, this has been the position of many factions of sound and the leadership of factions at the meeting that took place today. We accept this important bill, allowing the Cabinet of Ministers to take a serious position in international negotiations, in the first reading, of course. But that's also what the political party's People's Servant and Fatherland said about what's fundamental to us is that it's not for sale, it's not for privatization, it's for concession, it's for rent, it's for governance. That was pointed out, and I hope everyone heard that. Thank you, colleagues. I do hope, however, for the support of all the political forces that are in the hall today. Dear colleagues, I place the issue of acceptance on the basis of the Committee's proposals and the necessary ones. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, wait, this is where the committee said they were cleaning up. Should we edit the author? It's all right, it's all right. Dear colleagues, once again, I place the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in relation to the separation of natural gas transport activities (registration No. 2239-1). Is that right? Tyre is alone. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:46:02]] For-286 18 against it, 19 against it. Thank you, the decision is made. One minute. Alexei Valeriyovich, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u252	Yes, thank you. My colleagues, look, I've already said that this job was supposed to take place for years. We're very much in reduced mode right now, unfortunately we're working, this regime is dictated by negotiations. It is very important for us to have this law voted before the second reading by November 1. That means we need a shorter procedure, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u254	But we're ready today, any other day, in any format, to talk, to give all the materials, it's not our challenge, it's a certification procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u255	I'm asking you to stay put, national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u256	We need a certified operator on December 31st, colleagues, to understand. The certification procedure lasts about 2 months, where it is strictly regulated. So I'm asking very much to support the reduced procedure, and we're going to go to the discussion with you essentially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u257	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the proposal made by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, I am putting the vote to the vote. By factions, show the last vote. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut half the time before the second reading of the bill (registration No. 2239-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[15:48:01]] For 260 Against 15, holding 39. Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. 224 – Servant of the People, Opposition Platform – For Life – 0, European Solidarity – 3, Fatherland – 10, Future – 9, Voice – 10, non-fractional – 4. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the next question, but we need a few votes. Dear colleagues, you have been proposed a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2019 (registration No. 2238). We need to vote in order to include the above-mentioned project in the agenda of the plenary session, we need 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[15:49:07]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to cut in half the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills according to article 50 of part three, 226 of the same vote. Please support and vote. [[15:49:36]] For 244 Dear colleagues, we must now vote in favour of applying the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session of Bill No. 2283. Please support and vote. Wait. There's more important stuff then. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I bet. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Please support and vote. [[15:50:38]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that the above-mentioned bill be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[15:51:02]] For 244 Decision taken. The report is given by Jigiri Yuri Anatoliyovich, Deputy Finance Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u258	Thanks again, colleagues. I'm very short on the basic features of the bill. The government is submitting to Parliament a bill on changes to the 2019 budget. Major changes. The big block of change, they're technical, they're aimed at reorganizing ministries. We have a number of ministries merging organizationally, and we need to put this in the 2019 budget right now. This is a big block of change that you see in the documents you've given out. Critical: Coal mine restructuring is increasing by 1 billion dollars, allowing the timely payment of salaries to coal miners; increasing national security and defence spending by 1.4 billion dollars -- that is, raising the salaries of military personnel, levelling wages between defence forces and to pay to military personnel in the ATO zone and the United Nations operation; and increasing the cost of the contingency fund by 500 million. There is a redistribution within social programs. According to the Ministry of Social Policy, there is an economy under one social programme that generates unspent costs due to the decline in the number of recipients, transfers of funds within the social budget, transfers of funds to the Chernobyl population – 354 million and 787 million to the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. The program of life for internally displaced persons and antiterrorists is increasing by a total of 500 million. Because of the low use of funds under the APC support and funding programmes, it is proposed to reduce by 750 million at the Ministry of Economic Development's offer for these programmes, these costs will not be used. The cost of the President's fund is decreasing by 800 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u259	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u260	And two of the most plausible changes that we should stress are due to the strengthening of the bracelet that we have been correcting as per income, by taxes, by income.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u261	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u262	and the economy of government debt. These sums of about 20 billion there are revenue cuts, where the expenditure cuts are reflected in these changes to balance the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u263	Thank you. The first deputy head of the Committee for Budget Affairs, Krulk Ivan Ivanovich, is given the floor for the report. No John Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u264	I don't think so. You weren't authorized by the committee if I wasn't mistaken. Yeah. We'll wait a minute. Trukin. Trukin Alexander, please. As in football, we've got a replacement.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u265	But someone has a red card, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u266	Dear colleagues, I'm very sorry, I was giving a press conference. Thank you for the opportunity. Thank you for being able to report on this bill. Dear Dmitry Aleksandrovich, distinguished national deputies and invited, the Committee on Budget Affairs today has, within a limited time, considered a government bill amending the State Budget Act 2019 at number 2283, which came to the committee only this morning. According to the explanatory note, the bill was designed to address the most important social issues and to make effective use of public budget funds. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has examined the bill in a concise manner, without denying the adoption of the bill, but also makes observations about it, particularly regarding the lack of calculations and due explanations. During its consideration of the bill, members of the committee noted the need for further drafting of the bill, taking into account the significant changes to the Regulations and Indicators of the State Budget Act 2019. Taking into account the pointed and urgent need to address the issues raised in the bill promptly, the Committee on Budget Issues recommends to the Supreme Council Bill No. 2283 as a result of the first reading review to adopt it as a basis, entrusting it to work on the second reading, taking into account the comments and suggestions, by cutting their submission by half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u267	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich, thank you. Two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two Needed Discussion? Is it necessary or not? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. It's necessary, isn't it? Okay. Please sign up: two for, two for the factions. Three factions insist, that's why. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. I can't see. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u268	Dear colleagues, changes to the 2019 budget. Of course, our faction supports the allocation of $1 billion to coal miners, supports the allocation of housing money to atolls, and so on. But what we can't support right now is that all of these changes are made due to the reduction of all aid costs, subsidies to peasants, farmers and so on. And what we're seeing is also shrinking 800 million dollars for education. In addition, under no circumstances can additional expenses be made available for the benefit of the subsidy economy, families with children, underprivileged families, persons who do not have the right to a pension, and persons with disabilities, children with disabilities, be removed and added. That's our offer. You know, as a result of the strengthening of the rate of the bracelets, we have a reduction in the amount of debt in the bracelets to be paid. According to our calculations, it's about 100 billion dollars. This bill only includes 23 billion reductions in government debt. We suggest on second reading that we increase just the extra capacity and resources by reducing public debt payments for the strengthening of the bracelet to the extent needed to implement this law. But don't touch agrarians, farmers, disabled children, families, and so on. Subsidies to all these families with children are not allowed. So we're proposing to abstain now, and the second reading is to take into account our proposals, to clean up what we can't take off from, and to adopt this bill in general with a different income.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u269	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Tsakenko Maxim Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u270	Good afternoon, colleagues! Tuckenko Maxime, Luhanščina, "Slut of the People" faction. I am addressing all the members of our faction and all the members of this Parliament in order to support this bill, 2283, because for me, as a representative of Lugansk, these are very important changes in the budget. And all of Luhansk and the miners are waiting for this money, waiting for their families, their children. And we've done a lot of things with our entire team. And yesterday, Alexi, Prime Minister, we also thank him for his support, and we thank Minfin for the fact that the bill was put on the agenda by a large team today. Thank you to all who have taken part in this, and I invite everyone to support them now in the first reading and to support them as a whole. And thank you very much for giving this bill 1 billion dollars to miners, and there's also money like 300 million for concessional loans for internally displaced persons and housing for displaced persons. Thank you. And I ask everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u271	Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u272	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u273	Volodymyr the Cabal. Volodymyr Volodymyrovich, your word. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u274	Dear colleagues, we welcome the Cabinet of Ministers that this time he has gathered all the changes that are proposed for the 19th year budget into one law, not the various redistributions, various additional laws. That's very good, we very much welcome it. We also welcome that there are a lot of positive things in these changes that we support: this is housing for internally displaced persons to increase funding, this is also an increase in salaries for military personnel, this is an economy in government debt, this is also a reduction in expenditure on the President's fund. We welcome all these changes. But, Your Honor, the Cabinet of Ministers, Mr. Prime Minister, please have respect for the people's deputies. We want to be able to study all the changes, not just those that have just been heard from the rostrum, but all 900 programs that are on page 31 to be able to understand where good things are and where bad things are. How do we know that the Ministry of Finance has been sounding everything, all things, not just good things. We want this opportunity. It's a very big request to give two days to study all these things. Because there was no such study, I think we, the Voice faction, will abstain from voting for this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u275	Thank you. Irina Volodymyrna's character. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u276	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, north of Restoration. Well, first of all, unfortunately, the Head of the Supreme Council is on the way to breaking the Rules. There's a book called The Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations. I understand that there is a need for further mass education, so after the presentation, I will give Mr. Razumkov the Rules to read what he violated in the consideration of the draft budget for 2020. Now it's about 2019. So that's what you can say. So, you know, once a very modest representative of the Ministry of Finance said, we just have minus 20 billion there. Friends, this is called budget cuts. So we've been waiting for the technocrat government, and what they're asking us to do is cut the state budget. Well, you know, it cuts a lot of things out: helping children, families with children for 1 billion 100 million, a lot more. But there are people who can't be cut off. It's actually a budget project for 11 friends of Zelensky's. Who are Zelensky's friends, Bakanov? Please, half a billion dollars plus on the TV. With the total budget cut on the BSP plus, the State Security Authority plus. Pottery, I take it, another friend of Zelensky's. To the Cabinet Secretariat, to the Department of Commerce, plus 150 million. Mr. Hotcharuk, what do you miss, another single? What are we talking about? It's a budget that we're offered, it's actually just some kind of abuse of people. It's just a redistribution of government spending and finance into Greens friends, into a repressive system, into its diet and nothing for people, to social assistance is nothing. You can't vote for these changes, just a red button. And of all the others, the people will ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u277	Thank you, Alexeiovich. I'm sorry, but you don't always keep your promises, you don't even give up the Rules. However, regardless of the political power in which you are. Thanks, I got it. Thank you. But the result is already there. Thank you. I think I've had less time, but I know her better. Thank you. Mikhailo Alexiyovich Papiev. Oh, I'm sorry. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u278	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Mikhail Papiev, "The Opposition Platform for Life." You know, I got really excited today when I reported to the Committee on Budget Questions that said that we got the law today, that we got together today, and today we voted on the committee of conclusions, and today we have to vote in the hall. I would like to tell the citizens of Ukraine the absolute truth. What are the actions of the government that shortens both the income part of the budget and the spending part of the budget? So it must be a shame for any government. And our faction would not support these changes to the Ukrainian State Budget Act and all the "hotels" that the government officials have killed in this bill, but one position, only one position convinces us to vote, and we will vote. These are expenses, $1 billion, for the wages of coal miners working in government mines. So our faction will support this law with disgust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u279	Thank you. Chess is a minute. And, dear fellows, after that, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u280	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. And the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, who heard more than Luganskina, Donetskina, Volin, in general, mining cities, moms who went shopping with children and were recorded in the barn books, I repeat. But the main thing is to get this money to the miners. Because a year ago they voted, they changed their budget on Friday the 13th by 1.5 billion dollars, and the miners never saw their money. So once again, I call upon the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine after the Supreme Council has introduced the amendments and voted for 1 billion dollars to the miners to pay this money anyway. Keep going. No, they're talking about the village today, they're talking about all the areas today, and so on, each of you were practically in Lugansk, there's no money in the 2020 budget for roads to the Lugansk region, no pits like graves, no money for orphans left today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u281	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. See, that's why the committee is proposing to shorten the preparation time for second reading to resolve, including this question that you just raised. And that's what the representative was talking about, too, your colleague from Luhansk, Maxim Tkachenko. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2019 (registration No. 2283). Please prepare for the vote. Colleagues, vote, please prepare. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:10:43]] For 273 Thank you. For 273. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that we cut in half the preparation period for the second reading. I'm going to put this proposal to the vote. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for the second reading of the bill, registration number 2283. Please support and vote. [[16:11:25]] For 266 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 227, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 17, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 1, "For the Future" – 12, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 9. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm giving Treyak's Galina Mikolayevna a minute. Then I give Oleni Constantinen, a word to read the announcements.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u282	Dear National Deputies! Honorable Chairman, Honorable People of Ukraine! I would like to provide you with information that you will be working quietly in the districts next week on a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on granting status and social guarantees to individuals involved in an anti-terror operation (registration number 2045-1). This is about granting the status of a participant in hostilities to volunteers who, since the early days of Russian aggression, have defended the independence and territorial integrity of our Ukraine. The bill is signed by three factions: "Serviary of the People", BUTO, "Fathership" and "Voice". The authors are Tishchenko, Vasilenko, Tretlyaków, Tsimbaluk, and other national MPs. Similarly, the bill did not adopt the previous Council of Appeal for four years. We'll be looking at it on the first Tuesday at our first week of plenary. The president defined this bill as a priority. So that you have this information, because the bill is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u283	No, it's not. Dear colleagues, we're his. What? Dear colleagues! All right, I'll give it to you now. Dear colleagues, this bill will be one of the first to be voted on October 29th. I'd like to go to the Apparatus to take this issue into account when preparing proposals for the Conciliation Council. It's based on Herasimov. I can't see. Friz Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u284	Thank you very much. Thank you for the announcement made by your head. Unfortunately, we did not await today’s consideration of the bill, even though there were so many rumors that it would be presented by voice. At the same time, I would like to point out that there was, in fact, a precedent set for Wednesday at a meeting of the committee of profile when the decision of the committee on voting for the draft bill 2045-1 was reviewed on the basis and as a whole. Today a meeting of the Temporary Special Committee on Status for Veterans was held and a unanimous decision was adopted: Recommending to the Council to vote in favour of the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you very much, and I hope that we will not extend the procedure and adopt this decision immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u285	Thank you. I give my word. I heard. I give the floor to Oleni Constantineni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u286	Dear colleagues, a couple of very important announcements. You know that every year in October around the world, as well as in Ukraine, there is a day to fight breast cancer. That is why I need to draw attention to this disease and to this wonderful problem in Ukraine. The interfractional merger "Equal Opportunities" has given you today both informational materials and pink tapes, especially to get immediate attention to the promotions of early diagnosis of this severe disease. I thank all who have joined this action. [[Applause]] Thank you, colleagues. And the following announcements. According to an article of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council, the creation of an intellectual Ukraine MP's union is announced. The national deputy of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, was elected head of such interfractional association. Welcome to this. Next announcement on the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association for accelerated European integration of Ukrainian business. The national deputy was elected as head of this association, Lyuba Dmitry Valeriovich. Congratulations, too. And the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association for Hmmelničkin. Head of the new union of Ukraine’s elected national deputy, Denis Anatoliyovich, of Monastery. That's all the announcements.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-18-m0.u287	Dear colleagues, I wanted to thank you for your overtime work today. I think we've done important things today. Wish our colleagues who work in the regions next week were fruitful. And I want to thank you again. Don't forget your cards. I declare closed the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Morning, I'm sorry, this is the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you all.
