ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, are your respectable colleagues ready? I'd like you to sign up, please. [[10:02:55]] 359 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear friends, March 4th was 70 years old from the birth of Vladimir Iwasuka, an outstanding Ukrainian composer and poet. Vladimir Iwassuk was one of the founders of Ukrainian modern estradic music, a brilliant musician, and a performer. It is symbolic that today in Parliament we will continue to consider the Law on the National Ukrainian Language, for which he fought, which Vladimir Iwasuk lived. And I want to tell everyone that in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we honor our genius. On the first floor today will be the opening of the "Planet of Songs" exhibition by Vladimir Iwasuka. So I invite everyone to attend this exhibition. And I would like to remind you that on Tuesday morning, we have performances from factions and groups. And I'm asking everyone who wants to participate in the discussion to record and sign up. Please. From the Rebirth Party to the word, Bondar Victor Vasilovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u2	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, surely today is the most important topic that concerns people in Ukraine: raising tariffs and debt for municipal services. As of today, it is already composed of almost 57 billion dollars in debt in the country. This suggests that authorities today have absolutely no plan of action to deal with this phenomenon and do not know how to help people. The authorities know only clearly how to raise tariffs. In the last few years, gas tariffs have increased 12 times, electricity tariffs have increased 4 times. This places both the Ukrainian industry and every Ukrainian family at a dead end. We see that, as of today, the authorities have proposed the following tariff hikes: from 1 May, gas tariffs will be raised by 20 percent, from 1 January, gas tariffs will be raised by another 40 percent, and from 1 May, electricity tariffs will rise by at least 30 percent. This is due to the introduction of the so - called free electricity market. What happens at this time? And at that time, there are paradoxes of the economy and paradoxes of government. The government is sending us big letters, every Ukrainian, how much they're going to get in the form of living money. Here I have, for example, a letter that came: the Poltava region, the village of Ternushčina, for 1748 bracelets at the request of the President of Ukraine, will be provided with assistance. Only to print these letters did the authorities find 32 million, and the Minsk authorities paid this amount to inform them of how beautiful the authorities are, how they care about people. And in fact, once again, from May 1st they're going to raise tariffs. Moreover, since May 1, all those in debt will not have the right to receive the grant. This means that the authorities today are auctioning off unforeseeable generosity, raising grants, subsidies, giving us extra money, extra pensions, but this auction will only take place in March, April. What's next? Then the authorities thought of themselves. For example, only the director of Naftogazu Ukraine's salary for this year, according to a decision of the Supervisory Board that she proposes to approve, will be 126 million dollars a year, plus the reward for winning the Stockholm Court for another 240 million and plus a large number of various bonuses. So this head of Naftogazu is going to get 342 million dollars a year. Almost a million dollars a day. Tell me, is there common sense in this story? None. That's why we're calling for a draft decree signed by all faction leaders to abolish the robbery tariffs in the voting room right now, and to proceed immediately, in accordance with this order of auditors. It is time to put order in these matters. The time has come to realize that the government must be responsible for all this activity and the vacchanal they have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u3	Thank you. From the Peter Prashenko Block, the head of the Arthur Gerasimov faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u4	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! Today, the whole country is discussing a conversation that took place between Julius Volodymyrý Timoshenko and Yuri Valeriyovich Kolomojski. I'd like you to hear it now, as it happens.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u5	Dear colleagues! Today, once again, the whole country is talking about this record, but there's nothing new for us in this record. He shows what we already know: Igor Valeriyovich Kolomojski has two candidates in the elections: Zelenski and Julia Timoshenko. The ancient Julius Volodymyr and Igor Valeriyovich are the secret of Polyschenel, and the budget has been repeatedly counted for their political alliances. The origin of this record is incomprehensible, but the authenticity of this record does not give rise to doubt. He first shows double standards: the public is not threatened by oligarchs, and behind the ribbons is "kissing on the right." Society is tired of your constant lying, Julia Volodymyrna, who has become your card as an old politician. You've been fighting oligarchs for 25 years in politics. You start with Lazarus, you end with Igor Kolomojski. We demand public information on the political and financial aspects of your agreements with Igor Valeriovich Kolomoyski. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u6	From the Radical Party to the word Galasuk Victor is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u7	Victor Galasuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues, the government's debt of housing and utilities amounted to almost 60 billion dollars. This is a clear fact that testifies to the wrongness of politics exercised by today’s authorities. It's a policy of artificially high tariffs and low wages, low incomes. The policy proposed by Oleg Lazko is completely the opposite: wage increases, pensions increased due to the development of the Ukrainian industry, due to the modernization of the Ukrainian economy. What does today’s authorities do? Today, every other Ukrainian is refusing treatment and is unable to obtain a cure because there is no cost. Today, half the country will be able to save even on food, at the most necessary. Today, millions of Ukrainians become forced immigrants because of poverty, defiance, and the injustice that today’s authorities are causing. Injustice is egregious. You just have to think, a graduate student at a teaching or medical university comes out after school, can't get a job. And he sees in the news that he will never earn as much in his entire life as Kobolev, chief of Naftogazu, earns in one month on our money with you that pays for gas. It's a robbery. It's a robbery. They turn on television -- and they see a country being robbed on military purchases, and a country being robbed on any budgetary issue. And he realizes he doesn't have a job, he doesn't have a perspective. And this authority says it's a success of reforms because they're going to take more loans from the International Monetary Fund and they're going to stick to power. Change economic policies radically. To change this corrupt power that has led people to poverty, emigration, and self - denial. Oleg Lazko registered a decree to return to the state budget to the last quarter of the prize of nearly 1 billion 400 million dollars illegally received by Naftogazu chief Koboljev. These are our expenses, Ukrainians, taxpayers. Fair tariffs are said to be fair. But it's cynicism, it's a robbery, and it's a robbery that needs to be stopped. Return these funds to the budget, cancel the government's decision to raise gas prices. Fair, fair tariffs and wage increases and pensions based on the development of their own economy, based on industrial development. This is the plan of the Lighthouse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u8	From the People's Front to the word, we invite the head of the Burbak Maxim faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u9	Congratulations, fellows! The People's Front calls on all presidential candidates to move to prevent the country from being destroyed in pre-election. From the presidential election, the state must come out stronger, not weaker. If anyone has forgotten, I will remind you that the enemy is still on our land, every day we have a new and new witness that the Kremlin has not given up its plans, and you are breaking up here. Is that enough, Mr. Presidential candidates? You have clearly played in your sandbox, even if you are distracted for a moment, think about the state and the future of the nation. The leader of the People's Front, Arseny Yatsenuk, made a state decision: not to run for presidents to consolidate the patriotic forces and prevent disunity. And we have the moral right to demand this approach of all of you. Remember Ukraine: the concentration of Russian troops on our border remains high, and the enemy is waiting for us to destabilise here, inside the country. Saturday’s events in Kiev, Chercas, well show that in such electoral hysteria it is very easy to cross the line of law. What has happened has nothing to do with the fight against corruption or patriotism is a violation of the law. Next. Corruption in defense of a warring country is a double evil. If the abuse of the Croatprom is proven, the guilty must be punished justly and harshly. As a reminder, on the initiative of the People's Front, last week's Parliament has already passed a decree on the urgent investigation of the abuse of the Croatprom. We've expanded the mandate of an already active TSC to investigate corruption in the defence field. This decree states that the TSK is to hold a public meeting with the participation of the rapists and the investigating authorities. In addition to the NABU, we want to hear information from the Office of the Attorney General, the Military Prosecutor's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service, the State Fiscal Service and the DBR. We want to know whether there is evidence of a downturn in the investigation of corruption in the Ucrobanprom, or whether there are bodies involved in the fight against corruption in the higher echelons of power in these tools. The involvement of the newly created and other organs in corruption kills the rest of the Ukrainian faith in justice. Do they understand this in authorities to combat corruption in the higher echelons of power that have long turned into an instrument of political manipulation and dark tools? Do they understand the possible consequences of their actions? Your bodies were created by Parliament and the government to fight corruption, not to cover corruption. Next. This week, the rematchers are attacking MPs of the People's Front with new power, who are, without exaggeration, symbols of the Jewish and volunteer movement. Promoting politicians hope to earn some rating and funding. It won't work. The people remember well where they were and what Andrew Parubius and Tetjana Cnerwell did in the most difficult, risky moments of the new Ukraine, what they survived and what they risked. Rematch didn't work out. Can I finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u10	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u11	And finally, on the most important issues of our agenda this week. In Ukraine there is a social consensus on the protection of the Ukrainian language, 81 percent of Ukrainians support the status of the national language. And that's why the People's Front requires that the bill on the functioning of Ukrainian as a national language be adopted as soon as possible. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u12	Heroic glory! From the Opposition Block to the word Gusak is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u13	Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! For a few weeks now, the Supreme Council is going to consider a bill on language. But what, there are no more pressing problems in the country? In the last year, Ukraine has become Europe's poorest country, but it seems that today's government: the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- does not care. In fact, there is no question of such a conflicting language bill in society. There is a demand for lower tariffs and prices, there is a demand for higher wages and pensions, new roads and quality medicine. The reason for this conflict bill is the desire of today's government, the President, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to change the order of the day in the country and to try to stay in power at any cost at the expense of supporting part of a radically established society. Dear colleagues, we are told that we are going to Europe. But Europe has criticised, by its Venice Commission, the relevant provisions of the Education Act, which are actually reproduced in this bill, and requires their repeal. This bill is not really about protecting the Ukrainian language, this bill on restricting the rights of speakers of other languages and violating the rights of residents of entire regions, tens of millions of Ukrainians living in places where, traditionally, languages other than Ukrainian are used in all areas of life. Imagine that a teacher in a kindergarten somewhere in Zakarpat instead of "thank you" will answer in Hungarian with a "cozon" – a fine of 7,000 dollars. Or an engineer at a pipe repair meeting in a utility company somewhere in eastern Ukraine will say something in Russian -- a fine of 7,000 dollars. We call for an end to the division of society. In any case, the issue of language and humanitarian policy must be resolved in local referendums, and the corresponding bill for President of Ukraine from the "Opposition Block" Alexander Wilkul submitted three more years ago. Dear colleagues, a language bill supported by Parliament but not supported by the majority of Ukrainian citizens. Can I have 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u14	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u15	Honorable colleagues, a bill passed by parliament, but not supported by the majority of Ukrainian citizens and criticized by the civilized world, will not be legitimate. And so it doesn't really matter, because right after the elections, when more adequate and responsible politicians come to power, it's going to be canceled. That is why we demand that this bill be withdrawn so that the Supreme Council can focus on the issues of economic growth.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u16	Thank you. I want to let you know that all the latest sociological polls say that most citizens support Ukrainian as the only national language, and that's a common sense, and today Parliament is responding to the social sentiments of society. And we will be able to dispel all myths and all the lies that Moscow propaganda is trying to sow against the Ukrainian Language Act. Everything will be fine, the law will be passed, and society will adopt it, and society will welcome the Ukrainian Parliament for the adoption of this law. From the Self-Help faction, I invite you to the word Semenich. Please, Roman Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u17	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, the distinguished Ukrainian people! The President's election is actually a few weeks away, but today's news from the pre-election race is most likely to resemble news from the front. The U.S.A. is largely listening to presidential candidates. Presidential candidates are widely used by aunts, misinformation, discreditation and other methods that, unfortunately, have become characteristic of modern Ukrainian politics to destroy their opponents. In fact, it can be noted that the various law enforcement agencies, unfortunately, are involved in the activities and opposition of the electoral headquarters of the two candidates, the two candidates who have been running this state for 20 years, are the two candidates who desperately want to appear in power after March of this year. And there are all the signs that further escalation, radicalization can lead not only to direct opposition in civil society, but, the struggle of God, perhaps, to direct opposition between the various organs. At the same time, the Self-Help Unit notes that today two headquarters are creating the largest network of voters from Ukraine's independence, and it is estimated that the cost of such a network from voter bribery is more than one billion dollars. But the current power went even further: In fact, in a few weeks before the day of the vote, the government is handing out one-off taxes to pensioners, and the monetaryization of subsidies. Please tell me, if the Ukrainian government had good intentions, why did not the right initiative – the monetaryisation of subsidies – take place in recent years? At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to such generosity from the government: this year's revenue gap is almost 7 billion dollars. And what is the legitimacy and legitimacy of the presidential election when, in fact, two candidates are preparing for unprecedented foreclosure of elections? Dear Ukrainians, you will ask whose account this feast is on. And money is the result of a systematic robbery of billions of taxpayers' billions of dollars from the government budget, and primarily the theft of the defence budget. Despite the numerous initiatives of the Self-Help Group, the defense budget remains the most closed part of the State Budget, and what was known yesterday, particularly through the investigation of the Bigus team, is only the tip of the iceberg. Journalist investigation shows not only the theft of the military budget and in fact the theft, but it raises an unethical question: Is there any law enforcement agencies in this country that serve the law and the people? It is not possible to fight corruption in the state if it is led by the highest officials of the state along with the leaders of law enforcement agencies. Respectable citizens! There's only one peaceful way to constitutionally bring them to criminal responsibility and remove them from power is to make your choice on March 31st during the President's election. The Self-Help Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u18	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u19	The Self-Help Union and Andrew Sadowy have made their moral choices, now it's up to us. And it's up to us Ukrainian citizens to decide which country will be after March 31st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u20	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction, Julia Timoshenko. All right, Moscalenko, first of all, "The will of the people." Then from Fatherland, Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u21	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! Just once before this time – February 20, 2014 – as it is now, I feel the historicity of the moment. Since then, we have adopted sign laws in various fields, and we have made major reforms. Even established a constitutional course for Ukraine's EU and NATO membership. But now we're going into a bill that unites us with tens of generations of our ancestors. The second reading of the bill on the functioning of the Ukrainian language, we have to go through it with dignity and accept 5670-d as a whole. This is a human requirement, our duty to our children and to the future of the entire nation. Colleagues, 134 times in Ukrainian, banned the language from the time of Catherine II and to the pause of Brezhnev. What language has endured such persecution? Even after gaining independence from our predecessors over the decades, there was not enough spirit to defend Ukrainian language as a national language. Society has been manipulated, supposedly by the interests of national minorities, although we are now well aware that it was a hybrid war weapon against us and our being. I want to thank everyone: To the President, to Parliament, to the Ukrainian government, for having found the power to take a principled stand in the defence of Ukrainians over the past five years, not in words, but in matters. Go to Ukrainian cinemas, turn on television, set up at FM-waves, and you'll hear Ukrainian. Listen to how many new Ukrainian performers emerged during this period, a new breath for the Ukrainian cinematographer. Together, we provided conditions for the work of the national market, not the Kremlin branch. Ukrainian language has become fashionable, although I remember how many did not believe in quota efficiency in 2014. It's been in full operation for six months now, and three fourths of the content is actually Ukrainian. Gentlemen, we can't stop halfway. I urge you not to speculate that someone's rights may be violated. By no means do we get into other languages, but we protect our family in our common home. And after we've considered thousands of rights, I call on all the MP factions and groups to provide a constitutional majority on the day of the adoption of the Language Act. Vote with your heart! So we're going to show that we're really the Ukrainian Parliament, as loudly as we are here. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u22	Heroic glory. From Fatherland to word, Timoshenko Ulya Volodymyrna is invited. Please add a minute to the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u23	Dear people of Ukraine, because I want to address the people of Ukraine right now. Two political events took place yesterday. The first is another series of investigations into journalists who are working today, including with the support of the European Union, about how black money has been pumped out and washed away in trade, in blood, in trade in war, when money in the military's defence budget has been washed. I want to remind you that a journalist's investigation has begun with the discovery of millions of devices, the supply of inequitable, completely unusable spare parts from the aggressor country by way of high-priced smuggling, even compared to new details. This was sold to our army 2 times as high as the new cost of the new details. Then, through the Lenin cousin factory, which belongs to the president of the country, the money was washed and distributed among the business partners of the President-in-Office, namely Mr.Gladkowski (Swinarczuka), who is the deputy to the National Security and Defence Council, and also the head of the Ucrobanprom. In fact, this scandal has swept the whole world apart. The world press wrote about the great corruption of the President of Ukraine, and it was certainly necessary to act. And then Parliament was obliged to set up a temporary commission of inquiry to initiate an impeachment procedure for the President. In addition, ATO veterans, the military took part in protests and demanded that an active president and his associates in such an organized criminal group be held accountable and, in fact, investigated. But unfortunately, the Supreme Council did not form a temporary commission of inquiry, but commissioned it to deal with the crimes of the President, namely, trade in war and blood, to deal with a temporary investigation group headed by the deputy of the Peter Prashenko bloc. In addition, additional information was made available yesterday for the investigation of journalists, which suggests that the authorities of the Ukrainian Attorney General’s Office and the Ukrainian Security Service were fully involved in these schemes. They were paid bribes, and two powerful authorities: the Ukrainian Security Service, and the Attorney General's Office, which is headed by the President's godfather, were in fate and business. This is shocking information, but today it is silenced by the Supreme Council. We need to review immediately the question of creating a temporary commission of inquiry. The second information that was published yesterday by the Minister of Interior and which is an integral part of all the corruption gears in Ukraine, is that from the Ukrainian budget through the Turbot Foundation, the so-called mass bribery is going on. There's a mass bribery going on for them to vote for the President-in-Office. How this is happening, and what the Minister of Internal Affairs announced yesterday on the ISTV channel. This happens as follows. They are made up of Circumstances and polls.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u24	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u25	The list of people who are willing to vote in favour of the President-in-Office for money and then, through the budget, they are invited and allocated to thousands of dollars through the so-called "Turbota" fund. This is a disgraceful phenomenon that distorts democracy in Ukraine, the results of elections, and all of this is happening in the eyes of society and parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u26	I've given you 30 seconds. I've given you 30 seconds. Thank you, colleagues. I've given you a minute, I've given you 30 seconds. I've given you all the necessary things. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u27	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u28	So, colleagues, there were three motions for recess. One break is from Fatherland, which requires a real break and a collection of factions' heads. Yeah? Thank you. I'm going to announce a real break, but once I've given the factions, they've submitted their statements more quickly. And after that, I'm going to announce a real break, as you demand. So self-help is three minutes. They're ready to take a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u29	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! Just to finish the previous topic with the theft in the defense complex. That committee that was formed earlier, and last week, it was our decision to add, expand the order of questions to this TSC, and in order for it to find and answer society, what is going on in the defence complex, it hasn't found time to this day to hold at least one meeting. This meeting was scheduled for today. For unknown reasons, however, it has been transferred to Thursday. So two weeks, the commission is waiting for perhaps new journalistic investigations, perhaps new facts. But that's not what I'm talking about. In fact, this event, it has shown to all society that everything in secret is sooner or later becoming manifest. Unfortunately, both society and national MPs, and very often journalists don't hear these facts that we've been talking about for years, journalists have been talking about for years, MPs. We don't hear each other. But the time for elections is coming. And these facts, these events, they get much hotter. Then society begins to draw much more attention to them. Today I was asked by my parents, through lawyers, by the parents of children who died in Victoria Sanatorium near Odessa, to announce the facts that have finally become known to them. Because the investigation that took place thus far was only to cover up all these crimes that took place in the territory and led to the death of children. A case that actually assigned two different expertises. And with that expertise, they came to the conclusion that it was the firefighters who were responsible, that it was the teachers who were responsible. But those who have led to this tragedy do not. In fact, parents were forced to achieve what was assigned an independent international expertise. On the contrary, the investigation that would have contributed to this experiment was a hindrance. But it did happen. And what did the expert establish? Yes, she confirmed that the heating happened as a result of a teapot, a boilr -- it doesn't matter, but the sanatorium was on fire in a few minutes. In seven minutes the building was covered with fire, and the children had no chance of escape from the fire. As a result, this resulted in their death. They spent quite a bit of time after they had conducted their own experiments, their own conclusions. And unfortunately, these findings revealed 50 pieces of the remains of those children among the burnt offerings. And despite the fact that even this area was not properly sheltered and the remains could not even be buried, the city council, along with the courts, is trying to hide it. And think about the cynicism that the mayor finds when he introduces the state of war, where he makes the reservation, and when he makes the court's decision, he takes away the arrest.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u30	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u31	And actually, on those burnouts, there's a reserve assembly on those leftovers. In fact, today the city council of Odessa claims that it is preparing a sanatorium for discovery in June of this year. Dear colleagues, parents today ask us alone as national deputies, a society: not to be silenced. Unpunished evil returns. Parents will be in Kiev tomorrow, and they will be able to provide much more information.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u32	Thank you. And now it's a break from two factions: "The Fatherland" and what faction? And "the will of the people," right? And "The will of the people." They announce a real break for half an hour. And I invite the heads of factions to the third floor of the council hall. And I ask all of you to come to the hall at 11:10, so that we may proceed to the consideration of the Law on Ukrainian State Language. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, I apologize for all the heads of the factions, but unfortunately the council lasted much longer than the Rules. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall so that we can go to the Ukrainian Language Act. But now I'm giving Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko three minutes from two factions: the Fatherland faction and the will of the people. And then we move on to the law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, we have just received a recess at our request, and the faction heads gathered together to decide on a major scandal involving corruption in the military, which is led by the President and in which the Office of the Attorney General and the Ukrainian Security Service have been involved in the latest data. The next decision is now being made that a temporary investigation commission will immediately be convened to deal with the corruption of the President, his environment in war, the defence budget involving the Attorney General's Office and the Ukrainian Security Service. The committee will also be held with the participation of the Security and Defence Profile Committees, the Anti-Corruption and Force Control Committee, three committees. And plus the faction heads are also invited. We hope that today at 14 o'clock -- as it was announced in advance -- such a temporary follow-up commission with a press presence will start working. The other one. With regard to the bribery by the President of Ukraine in the budget election through the Turbot Foundation, through extramonetized subsidies and, they say, pension payments are now not made. And that's why we're going to go to the OSCE, to the ambassadors of the key countries, to draft a bill to transfer these payments to after the President's election. And we will immediately take all steps to stop this massive bribe. Unfortunately, today, Parliament's leadership has given no support and no offer to stop a large-scale voter bribe at the expense of budgetary resources. I want to remind you that most of the Presidents in Parliament have passed the Budget Act, where they have planned a billion dollars into the special fund of the current President for bribes, his wife – 800 million dollars and other members of the family – 200 million dollars. This and other funds of the budget are now under massive bribery. We're not going to allow people to be bribed, we're going to fake elections, we're going to corrupt democracy in the country, we're going to undermine the constitution of an independent sovereign state. And that's why we're going to fight, first of all, to bring the President-in-Office and his environment to justice for the corruption of the army, of the blood; and secondly, to stop the bribery of the people in the elections and to hold fair elections. They'll be fine, they'll be responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u35	So, colleagues, we're continuing our consideration of the draft Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language (No.5670-d). And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princess Nikola Leonidovich to the rostrum. And, Mr. Mikolo, I'd like you to explain the logic of the consideration of the Law. How long have you been here?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u36	Seven minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u37	Please, 7 minutes. I will continue the session at 12:10 p.m. And seven minutes to go. And then there's the break. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear friends, dear colleagues! We are really starting a historic phase in the work of our Parliament. Because the Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language after its adoption should put a stop to all speculations about the existence of the so-called "Russian Peace", one nation, Ukrainian Russian language and other speculations that are constantly being done by those who are struggling with the independence of our Ukraine. The adoption of this law will finally show that we are a strong democratic European country. How we're going to look at this bill. As you know, there are over 2,000 rights to the bill. And according to the Rules, we will stop and discuss the remedies that their authors will insist on. Whether accepted or rejected by the committee, the authors have the right to insist on these rights. In addition, the law consists of a preamble and a series of articles. In accordance with the Rules, before considering the rights of each article, I will give a brief introduction and try to interpret the content of this article, so that we can then, during consideration of the rights, move quickly and quickly under this law. Dear Mr. Head, I'd like to ask you now, once again, to disprove some of the fiascos that have been distributed in connection with this law to show a presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u39	Please enable the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u40	A brief presentation of this law on what this law is about. As you know, article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine now says that Ukrainian is a national language. Next slide, please. 85 percent of Ukrainian citizens consider Ukrainian to be their native language. This proves once again that the Ukrainian language does not divide but unites the Ukrainians. And those who try to do everything to reduce this percentage are working to keep dividing Ukraine. A wonderful article by Oksana Zabużko, a winner of the Shevchenkow Prize, appeared where she made this technology clear, like the Ukrainian cities of her time, in the days of Szczerbické, and was forced to speak Russian. When people from other regions were brought to large businesses, most of Russia, and in fact forced Ukrainians to come from other cities or live there, to enter Russian. But in families, you can see that 85 percent still consider Ukrainian to be their native language. Next slide, please. You know, while we were working, we passed a whole series of bills that increased the number of Ukrainian-speaking media. We passed laws that regulate the protection of Ukrainian music, Ukrainian television. And you can see now that in 2018, 92 percent of TV speaking and 86 percent of radio speaking are done in Ukrainian. The law regulates such figures. People who claim that these numbers are unrealistic are not afraid that something will change. In fact, the media is now implementing these standards. These people are hoping to get away. We need this law then, if we suddenly get a rematch or a rematch, we're obviously not going to let this rematch take place, again not to ruse the Ukrainians, not to lose all of our gains that we've achieved since the Dignity Revolution by the work of everyone who's in this room. Next, please, slide. We have often been criticized for asking for 50 percent of books in bookstores in Ukrainian. Now it's 75 percent. This process is ongoing. Once again, this rule of law only stabilizes our work and prevents us from returning, banning, deleting the Ukrainian book from Ukrainian bookstores, as it was before, when there was a separate little book shelf for the Ukrainian book, and all the books were Russian. Next slide, please. But there are areas where, unfortunately, Ukrainian is not yet protected and very little is used. You can see that only 32 percent of newspapers were published in Ukrainian in 2018, while 67 percent were published in Russian; only 27 percent of magazines were published in Ukrainian and are now being published. In this area, we certainly need to make changes. We have to make sure that in newspaper kiosks, when you can't buy a Ukrainian book not only in the kiosk of Mariupol or Kramitarsk, but sometimes both Ternopol and Lviv, this percentage of Ukrainian newspapers is minimal, this situation obviously needs to be changed. But we listened to the thought of the appropriate association and made 30 months of the transitional period for entering the law. That is, no one will force the complete publication of these books, these newspapers or magazines, to be published in English alone tomorrow. No one, by the way, prohibits the publishing of newspapers and magazines in English, in the languages of the European Union, no one forbids the publishing of them in Russian, if the relevant instruction is also printed in Ukrainian, so that Ukrainian readers have access to this information so that Ukrainian children who went to a Ukrainian school in Donetsk or Odessa, where more than 90 percent went to such schools, could then watch a Ukrainian animation film on television or take a children's Ukrainian coloring book, which is now nowhere to be found. The law should stimulate that. Next slide. The adoption of the Law on Language in Ukraine is a requirement of society and a legal necessity, because we now have a vacuum and we have no law on Ukrainian language. And I'll ask for the next slide right away. I want to emphasize and refute some of the myths that apply to this law. The bill (the next one, please) does not regulate private communication and the language of religious rituals. People can communicate in any language. There's no language police, no language inspectors, there's no such thing in the law. The bill does not provide for criminal liability for the use of any other language or any violation of the law. So the sanctions in the law are the most administrative responsibility: fines, warnings, waivers. There is no criminal responsibility, there is no criminal responsibility. Next, please. The use of national language in public spheres is neither regulated nor prohibited. The use of other languages: Crimecatataric, indigenous languages, national minorities - will be governed by another law, which is explicitly referred to in article 2, and this law should develop and submit to Parliament the Cabinet of Ministers for 6 months. They are now protected by the National Minorities Act. The Cabinet of Ministers will prepare a special law on the protection of indigenous languages, Crimean Tatar languages, and languages of national minorities. The next slide is number 10. The bill does not provide.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u41	Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u42	The bill does not provide for compulsory language certification for all citizens. Knowledge of language is one of the conditions for the highest positions of state, and this is in harmony with European practice. Confirming the level of language for other people: military personnel, medical personnel -- does not require additional examinations. That is enough for you to learn Ukrainian at school. But if not studied, yes, the state will create conditions for the production of tests and for the provision of appropriate positions. Next. Government authorities, including law enforcement officials, are carrying out their activities in the national language. The exception is only international projects, relations with people who do not speak the national language, and if the parties agree. I mean, you understand very well that if someone screams "help" on the street, then a militiaman shouldn't ask him for a passport, but he should give help whatever language this person speaks. The written letter of the authorities is made in the national language, the language of the pre-election campaign is also the national language. Next slide. The language of education and science. We did not move this law, mainly the rule in article 7 of the Education Act, because it has already passed an expert study of the Venice Commission, the language of science is the Ukrainian language, but it is allowed to study English. The press release in other languages, as I said before, is duplicated by the publication of the same content, but this rule comes into force in 30 months and does not apply to the languages of the European Union. Next slide. Consumer services and medical care are national languages. But if a seller or someone speaks another language, he has the right to answer in another language, no one limits it in any way. Computer programs should spread with a Ukrainian - language interface. This is important because there are many complaints about it. Next slide. Only two bodies are created: the National Commission of Public Language Standards and the Authorized Commission for the Protection of State Language. No additional organs are created. The next slide is 15. As I said before, there is no criminal responsibility for breaking the law, but there is administrative responsibility, an effective law and punishment for failure to do so. There is also a clear sanctioning mechanism. And the last slide, please, 16. The vast majority of laws take effect two years later. In some cases these terms are larger, such as for the printed press, where there is a transitional period at the request of the appropriate association for 30 months. Colleagues, in these short slides, we've corrected some fairy tales or scarecrows that use Ukrainian haters against this law. I believe that we're going to go into the law, you're going to see, when you're discussing the regulations and the articles, how serious and effective this law is, the purpose of which, as I've said many times before, is that the whole of Ukraine, from east to west, was free to speak, spoke, enjoyed speaking in English. Then no aggression will ever be frightening to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u43	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mikolo, for the excellent report. We'll get to the right after the break. Now I'm going to make two announcements that came to the fore. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Za Odessa Union in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Kiwalov’s national deputies, Sergey Vasilovich and Doubov Dmitry Ivanovich, were elected as coleaders. Welcome. And, colleagues, I would like to congratulate our fellow national deputies, Alona Koshelev and David Macharyan, on the birth of their daughter. They had a daughter that night. Let's welcome them together. [[Applause]] And, colleagues, I'm calling it a 30-minute break. At 12:40 I ask everyone to come to the hall, and we will begin the consideration of the rights to the Law on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language, and nothing will stop us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u44	So the colleagues, the time spent for the break, are gone. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'd like to ask the head of the Mikolukunzick committee to take up the post. And I want to let my colleagues know that I'm going to report the license numbers that are rejected. If the author insists, I will give him my word. Anyone who wants to bet on confirmation is by raising their hand. It's our usual work by second reading of any law. And, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to get ready for work. I'm sure we should look at the remedies and explain to society, and capture all these lying labels that Russian propaganda is trying to pin on this law. So I'm starting. 1 row. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u45	Mr. Head, with your permission, perhaps I could read the preamble, the explanation to the preamble, as we spoke, and move to the right?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u46	Okay. So 1 line. I'll give you after MikolaKnezhick reads out the first chapter of his own explanation. Please, Mr. Mikolo, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u47	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, therefore, the preamble defines fundamental things about the project: what has led to the adoption by the Ukrainian State of this law; all basic national, international documents are listed from the Declaration of Sovereignty, which restored the statehood of Ukraine, one of which is the national status of the Ukrainian language, to the decision of the Venice Commission under a similar bill, which was drafted 10 years ago, but instead of which we received a sad law on the principles of national language policy. When the project was discussed on the committee, we had a lively discussion about the preamble. I myself have made amendments to exclude a large number of paragraphs from the preamble, but scientists, professors, legal practitioners, public activists have been able to convince members of the committee that each of the paragraphs of the preamble has meaning. Representatives of various governmental authorities, who also participated in the drafting of the law at various stages, supported this position. Thus, in the approved committee, the preamble to the law corresponds to an editorial adopted by the Supreme Council in its first reading in October of last year. It is clear that Parliament can change the committee's decision and approve the preamble in a different way. The Legal Authority commented only on the fifth paragraph, which deals with the concept of State - language politics approved by the President’s Decree, which is proposed to be excluded, taking into account the hierarchy of normative acts. The committee found no reason to delete this paragraph, because the concept is not just a presidential decree, it is a fundamental document on Ukrainian language policy. Its importance is evident at least that, despite the fact that the decree was adopted by President Yushchenk, Yanukovic was unable to cancel it. And now, Mr. Head, we can go to the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u48	Thank you. So, 1 order, Nestor Schufrich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of course, the law that should regulate the functioning of all the languages used in Ukraine is urgent and important, especially after the disgraceful decision of the Constitutional Court, which repealed the previous law not in fact, but after the adoption procedure. I think the name of today’s law is quite controversial. This law should not increase conflict but unite society. Therefore, given that this law reflects the aspects of the actions of many languages that take place in Ukraine and which can be used, and guarantees the right to use in accordance with the 10th article of the Constitution, please make a change to the name of the law. And to call the Law the order of use of languages in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u50	Thank you. Mr. Mikola. I'll remind you, Mr. Nestor, when you say that the Constitutional Court has made an improper decision, I remind you that when the law of Koleschenka-Kivalova was under consideration, there were fighters at the rostrum who did not even allow the opposition to come forward. Now, as you can see, we are in a democratic, normal procedure, and I know that it is very important for us not to violate any of the rules of this law. And for that, we have a completely democratic, open and transparent process. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u51	Thank you. Mr. Nestor, as you know, we are doing everything we can to protect the rights of indigenous peoples and national minorities, we are preparing a separate law for this, although they are still partially protected by the National Minorities Act. You know very well that in Poland the Law is called the Polish Language, and in Russia it is called the Russian language, not the pro-Russian language and other languages. So do we. This amendment is rejected because it does not correspond to the very essence of this law. This is a law that regulates the use of only Ukrainian but does not regulate the application of other languages. This is clearly stated in article 2 of the bill, which outlines its scope. The application of minority and indigenous languages, as I said before, should be subject to a separate law, as provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine. If this amendment is accepted, the title of the law would be contrary to its contents. Then, when the Minority Language Act is passed, there will be confusion, because we have 2 laws with the same name. Thus, the amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u52	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yes. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote 1 of the German and Shufric authors, which the committee rejected. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:46:16]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. 2 repairs, Denisenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u53	Good afternoon, colleagues, in my direction, the text of the bill proposed that the words "National Commission of Public Language Standards" should be replaced by the words "Institute of the Ukrainian Language of the National Academy of Sciences" in appropriate differences in all articles and chapters. The point is, right now, we already have the Ukrainian Language Institute at the Academy of Sciences. In principle, it's a large, with great historical experience of the institution and, in fact, it was thought that perhaps, in order not to create a new organ, you could put all the responsibility on the Institute of Ukrainian. In fact, the request to comment on why the committee made such a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u54	Please comment, Your Honor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u55	Yes, Mr. Wadim, thank you for this. And I've defended the same position before, because there are many countries where either academic institutions or the Academy of Sciences single-handedly set standards for one language or another, as regulated by law. But after a committee discussion, the amendment was rejected because the bill stipulates that Ukrainian language standards will be dealt with by a special commission composed of authoritative scientists, and it will have the status of central executive authority. The main reason why an institution cannot set standards is the obligation to make appropriate decisions about standards. The decision of the institution cannot be binding on the level of the decision of the public authorities. The standards of the Ukrainian language can then be established only by a national authority. Under such circumstances, the committee decided that the standards would be handled by a commission that had the status of central executive authority. The Commission's decisions will have the force of legal acts that will be binding on them. But at the same time, listening to your opinion, the bill proposes to preserve the special status of the Ukrainian Language Institute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u56	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u57	The National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, for example, article 44, which will be considered further, is defined by a professional expert body that draws conclusions and advises on the development of appropriate standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u58	Do you insist on voting? Yes. I'm voting number two. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:49:00]] For-41 The decision is not taken. 3 redundancies. Please, Denisenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, according to the text of the bill, the words "authorized for the protection of the state language" were proposed to replace "government authorized for the support and protection of the state language." I understand that this may seem like just a certain philosophical thing, but, in my view, this is the formulation -- the formulation of "Governmental Authorized for the Support and Protection of State Language" -- has more specific patterns than the one proposed by the committee. The request to comment, in effect, on why such a decision had been made by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u60	Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u61	Your Honor, Mr. Wadime, as a result of the committee's consideration of the matter, it has been decided that the use of the term "Governmental Authorized" will lead to a decrease in the status of the relevant official compared to the way it was established in this bill. Government officials are essentially representatives of the government who carry out certain tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers (such as you, the High Council Commissioner), act in his best interests. Today, all government officials usually work at the Cabinet Secretariat. Instead, he has the authority to make it more independent of us, and he has his own separate infrastructure that is subordinated only to the authorized one. Therefore, it will be somewhat invalid to call it a government authority because of a certain difference in status between the Authorized Kabmin and the Authorized Protector.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u62	Thank you. I think we can agree with the committee. We have an authorized institution that works without any additions. But nevertheless, I'm putting to the vote the third amendment, which is rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:51:00]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Four. Don't insist. Five o'clock, walking. Don't insist. 5th. Turn on the microphone. 5 Edit Golovawa. Four. Turn on the microphone, please. 4 Order Pisarenka. Kudlainka, right? Please, Kudlaenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u63	5 revisions, please, if you please. Dear colleagues, the venerable Ukrainian community! Historical events, one of which is undoubtedly the adoption of this important bill, have often shown both patriotic feelings and the negative activity of the Fifth Russian Colony. Despite some political forces trying to delay the adoption of this extremely important bill for the Ukrainian State, it will still be considered and adopted very soon. The Supreme Council of this calling has repeatedly confirmed its unquestionable ability to adopt acts that are hot for our nation by providing them with the interests of the State and most of the citizens who live here. However, I would like to refer to the author of this amendment, which proposes to remove from the preamble this bill a reference to the Ukrainian Declaration of Independence Act of 24 August 1991. How can a bill be taken out of the body of one of the fundamental government documents of the modern Ukrainian State? If you don't mind, I'd like to make a statement to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u64	Thank you, colleagues. I'm reminding you that this is the amendment of the people's deputy Gulyev, she was rejected by the committee. The national MP Kudlainko expressed his position of non-acceptance of this amendment and now asks the committee head to take a position on this amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u65	Thank you, colleague Kudlaenka. I really fully agree with you, and the committee also found no reasons why references to the Act of Independence should be excluded from the law, because in fact the Act of Declaration became a legal basis for the restoration of the Statehood of Ukraine, and so, later, it allowed for an opportunity to speak about the official and national status of the Ukrainian language in the Constitution, it was established by the Constitution and is revealed by this law. So obviously the entire sequence of restoration and Ukrainian statehood and the rights of use of Ukrainian language are fixed in this direction. So the committee rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u66	Thank you. There is no insistence on a colleague’s vote because the amendment was rejected. The next amendment is 6, German and Shufric national deputies. They prepared many amendments to the bill. Please, Nestor Ivanovich, you have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we propose and insist that this paragraph be excluded in view of the fact that the next paragraph refers to the Constitution and the Constitution has been adopted, taking into account the relevant Declaration of State Sovereignty and the Act on the Declaration of Independence. You know, I'm against double standards because when we introduced, more specifically, when you made changes to the EU and NATO Constitution, somehow you forgot that the Declaration of Independence clearly reflects the will and desire to be a non-locked country and we've entered the EU. We joined NATO. As for the EU, we are already ready to delegate national sovereignty, although this is prohibited by the current Constitution. So if you've already killed her once on the Declaration, you don't have to bully her. Please delete this paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u68	Thank you. Please explain to the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u69	Mr. Nestore, as many times as you or your colleagues, your political thinkers, have not proposed to exclude from any documents the reference to the Ukrainian Independence Act, Ukraine has always remained and will be an independent state, and accordingly in an independent state will always protect Ukrainian language as a national language, as it is written in this law. For the same reasons as I answered Kudlainka's colleague, the committee did not agree with your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u70	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for the 6th Amendment of National Deputy Nestor Schuffric. [[12:55:48]] For the 17th. The correction is being rejected. The next one is the 7th amendment. People's MP Denisenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u71	In this direction, it was suggested that the second preambular paragraph of this law should be worded: "since Ukrainian language is a defining factor and a major sign of the identity of the Ukrainian nation, which has historically been formed and has lived continuously for many centuries in its own ethnic territory, and with the aim of creating the right conditions to ensure and protect the language rights and needs of the Ukrainians;" As I see it, the wording is more accurate than the draft proposed for the second reading. So actually, I would like to comment on why this formulation was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u72	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u73	Thank you. Thank you, Comrade Denisenko. As I said before, explaining in an article-by-article consideration of this bill, commenting on the preamble, we had different thoughts on the committee, and I had some suggestions to shorten the preamble. But when we discussed this, we thought that, on the grounds that this amendment proposes to shorten the preamble, when we cut down, we might lose references to important legal documents, including international documents, which is exactly what our opponents want very often with you. So we decided to reject the amendment and leave the preamble in the form in which it was first read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u74	Thank you. I'd like to make up my mind, colleagues, on the 7th Amendment. Please. [[12:57:32]] For-41 Correction is not accepted by the session hall. The next is the 8th Amendment, the People's Deputy Fishchinsky. Don't you insist? Please move on. The next one is the 9th amendment. Oh, you. Please, National Deputy Rybczynski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u75	In view of the fact that we have a right over 2,000, I do not insist and take off all the following. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u76	Thank you, let's take this into account during the discussion. 9th Amendment, People's Deputy Shufrich. Do you insist on making any adjustments? Are you insisting? We have democracy, please, Mr. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u77	Thank you. With regard to the Chairman's statement today and the procedure for the adoption of the Language Act, which was annulled by the Constitutional Court. I would like to remind you that it was then that the opposition did not allow the Law to be considered in the order established by the Rules of Procedure and was adopted in a manner that was only possible at that time. Now, notice, we're allowing a peaceful discussion of this issue. The Declaration of State Sovereignty. I have the utmost respect for this act. I also have the utmost respect for the Act of Declaration of an Independent Ukraine in the 91st year. But I'm against the fact that in this room, acts of independence, sovereignty and the Constitution of Ukraine are turned like gypsies in the sun: this is where we fit in, this is where we don't fit. If we respect them, we need to respect them as they are written, and we need to respect them as they do today. Thank you for your attention, and please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u78	Nestor Ivanovich insists on his amendment. Please comment to the committee head on the 9th amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u79	Thank you. Well, first of all, Mr. Nestor expressed his political position on the rights that we have already discussed, but he didn't say his position on the 9th amendment that he wanted to make. So I'm going to say for Mr. Nestor, which was suggested to add Russian to the language of other national minorities. And the committee rejected this amendment on the grounds that the amendment proposes to supplement references to Russian and national minority languages, but this law is only about national language, and the application of other languages is not regulated by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u80	Thank you, colleagues. Now we're going to define nine amendments. And the presidency was addressed by Vice Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko, who also wants to comment. There's a denial in the hall. The rules don't make sense. We'll finally give the vice-premier a chance to sum it up. The rules don't. Please identify the 9th amendment, colleagues. I'd like to make a statement. Colleagues, I want to say that. [[13:00:34]] For-26 The correction is being rejected. Taking into account the presence of the vice-premier in our discussion, before the break, we will give the opportunity. They deny it. Give me your word. Please, just a minute. Turn on Mr. Kirilenko's microphone. Yes, with respect to the members of the government. Instead of sitting and walking, he participates in the discussion of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u81	Thank you for your word. I want to take it precisely because this bill is being considered by Parliament in full compliance with the Rules and Procedure. Because it mentioned how the law was approved in the early part of 2012. I was then a member of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, and more than 2,000 amendments were made by the deputies. Thus, the then ruling majority did not even consider any amendments to the second reading but voted in the second reading as a whole. And within an hour, there was a "language field" in the area near the Ukrainian house. That is why this Parliament and this majority sees language law as crucial to the country in full compliance with the Rules. And those who have broken and twisted this Rules all their life as a gypsy sun should not immediately make these remarks but support the Ukrainian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, first. We thank the government representatives that they are now present for the consideration of the bill. At the same time, I recognize the opposition's remark that the Rules do not provide for comments by government representatives. So that was an exception, and we're moving on to the Rules and Amendments. Before the break, if there's room will, we'll give the government a minute to position. Please read the next 10 amendments. Nestor Schuffritch, I beg you, you are the author of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u83	Thank you. Madam President, I would like to extend my respects to you personally, but you have just said that a statement by the Deputy Prime Minister is a violation of the Rules, but you have given him your word by violating the Rules. I'll draw your attention to that. As for the 10 amendments, I think that the corresponding paragraph should be deleted because it contradicts the 10, 11 and 12 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides for the possibility of using languages other than Ukrainian, including Russian and minority languages in all spheres of activity. That is why we believe that this rule is contrary to the Constitution and we ask that it be excluded. I'd like to ask you a question for confirmation. And, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I would like to advise you to do Eurobusing and that we are now a laughingstock in front of the whole world, including his work. Let's get her to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u84	Please comment on the 10th amendment of the honourable Lady.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u85	Dear Mr. Shufrich, this amendment was rejected on the grounds that the Constitutional Court’s decision on the State Language provided an official interpretation of article 10 of the Constitution on the State status of the Ukrainian language. In particular, it states that the provisions of article 10 of the Constitution, according to which the Ukrainian language is the Ukrainian language, should be understood that Ukrainian as a national language is a compulsory means of communication throughout Ukraine in the exercise of powers of government and local self - government, language of acts, work, business, documentation, and other public spheres of social life defined by law. In fact, the interpretation given by the Constitutional Court has become one of the bases on which this bill is built, and that is why we have to say so in the preamble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u86	Thank you. I'd like you to identify yourself by 10 amendments, colleagues. [[13:04:48]] For-22. The correction is being rejected. Next up, 11th. Please, National Deputy Chubarov, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u87	Thank you. See, honourable colleagues, the fourth preambular paragraph rightly states that the Ukrainian Constitution defines Ukrainian as the only national language in Ukraine, and trusts the State of commitment to the development of the national language. I would consider it appropriate to balance, and in order to then prepare other legislation on the language sphere, to add between the third and fourth paragraphs of the sentence "obtaining the Constitution of Ukraine, which obliges the State to promote the development of the ethnic, cultural, linguistic and religious identity of all indigenous peoples and national minorities of Ukraine". I'm sure that this addition is balanced by the State's approach to, in fact, State language and shows the State's attitude towards the languages of indigenous peoples and minorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u88	Thank you. Thank you. And now I'm asking for a comment from the People's Deputy, Head of the Committee, on the 11th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chubarov, appreciating your consistent pro-Ukrainian position and your activity to protect the rights of the Crimean Tatar people, deeply respected by you, I want to explain why the committee rejected this amendment. The point is that this amendment proposes to mention in the preamble to the Law on the Languages of Indigenous Peoples and National Minorities, but this law does not regulate the application of languages other than Ukrainian. Then the adoption of such an amendment would lead to a violation of the law and a preamble to the law. Instead, the law itself states that we must adopt the Law on the Languages of Indigenous Peoples and National Minorities within a six-month period, and we have done everything in this law so that we do not violate or restrict these rights in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u90	Thank you. Please be sure to make 11 adjustments. [[13:07:03]] For-54 The amendment is not accepted. Next up, 12th. Please, Nestor Schufrich, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we consider it necessary for the preamble to reflect the appropriate positions of the Declaration of Nationality Rights, the Law of Ukraine on the Ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities, taking into account that the free use of languages in private and social life is in line with the principles that are now proclaimed in the International Covenant of the United Nations on Civil and Political Rights. We believe that in the preamble, we must refer to appropriate legal acts that take place in Ukraine rather than avoid them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u92	Please comment on the 12th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u93	Dear Mr. Shufrich, the committee has taken a firm stand that it will not in any way simulate the struggle for rights of minorities and indigenous peoples, but will sincerely and honestly fight for these rights by preparing a corresponding bill with the government. Therefore, this amendment, which proposes to supplement the preamble with a reference to international acts governing minority rights, has been rejected, since this law does not apply as a minority, it regulates only the national language. One amendment to the minority is to be taken seriously, and we are determined to protect and defend minority languages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u94	I'd like to make a determination for the 12th amendment. [[13:08:50]] For-25 The correction is being rejected. Next up, 13th. People's MP Branzovich. Please turn on the microphone, Mr. Brenzowich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u95	Thank you. Paragraph 4 of the preamble is proposed to be deleted. A citation from a legal act cannot be a conceptual imperative of the law, it cannot be a source of law, the more the guiding principle normally contained in the preambles. It is necessary to delete as an unnecessary political declaration that is without a basis for moving the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u96	Please comment on the lady.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u97	Dear Mr. Brenzovich, the question of excluding this paragraph from the preamble, which contains a reference to the President's decree, has indeed been the subject of careful consideration on our committee. The committee concluded that it was appropriate to leave this paragraph in law. Such a conclusion was supported by scientists consulted by the committee and by representatives of the public, because this is not so much about the President's decree, because the concept of national language policy is followed by the full functioning of Ukrainian language in all spheres of social life throughout the country as a guarantee of the preservation of the identity of the Ukrainian nation and the strengthening of Ukrainian state unity. Obviously, committee members cannot deny this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u98	I'd like to make 13 adjustments, please. [[13:10:23]] For-27 The amendment is not accepted. The next amendment is 15. Irina Konstankevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u99	Our amendment also proposed to remove from the preamble the paragraph on the Concept of State Language Policy, which was approved by the Presidential Decree of Ukraine since 2010. Please place it for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u100	Please comment to the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u101	Mrs. Irina, as I said before, we've debated this on our committee for a long time, and because scientists have convinced us that it's not about the decree itself, it's about the decree that approves the concept, that is, we refer to the concept, but there's no other legal form than the decree that approves it. Because there were really important words to ensure the status of the Ukrainian language for the development of the Ukrainian state, the Ukrainian nation, we decided to leave that right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, the Deputy Prime Minister insists that there is no ban on the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Noise Nodes]] Dear colleagues, I have spoken to you. I can hear everyone very well. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, there is a denial of the hall. I'm in charge. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't shout. There are no objections to the hall. The Opposition Block split up. Nestor Schufrich demands that Vice Prime Minister Kirilenko speak, and Mr Papiev denies it. Well, I'll be the arbitrator of the Opposition Block. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister's microphone. Mr. Nestor, I supported your position. I'm sorry, Mr. Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u103	Madam First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, I am very grateful for your word. I realize that around my last name, it's always unhealthy to read from one opposition faction, but it's just an extra recognition of my merits. I want to say that this paragraph 5 is not important because this is a reference to a concept approved by the 2010 Presidential Decree, but especially for people who really want to support the Ukrainian language. I want to point out that in the case of supporting this fifth paragraph, we're going to write that we're dealing with the multi-century assimilation policy of colonizers and invaders, the deformation of the national linguistic and linguistic information space, and beyond the text. That is, in law we give a key reason why Parliament should now adopt this law and protect Ukrainian language as a national language. And this reference right over here is politically very important in terms of the entire structure of the next law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u104	Thank you for the position expressed by the government. The government was working with the profile committee on the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't rush the chairman. We have time to discuss the bill. And we're not, you know, breaking the Rules. Please identify yourself for the 15th amendment. Take your time, we'll be able to discuss the bill in a professional way and make a decision. Dear Mr. Papiev, you mentioned only in a positive context, so unfortunately there is no reply in this case. [[13:13:45]] For-24 24 votes for. The amendment is rejected by Ms. Konstankevich. The next one is the 16th amendment. Rybczynski cancelled all his amendments, and on demand that you hurry to vote on this law as soon as possible, we move on. 16 revisions. Please, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u105	First of all, I'm indignant that Kirilenko has not been given the opportunity to make a deal. Or he will again be the opposition here to blame everything. Secondly, I think it's very humiliating in the law to mention an act that is of equal meaning and influence weaker than the laws of Ukraine. And in this case, I'm referring to an edict not because President Dustenko has signed it yet, but in principle. There should be respect for the Institute of the Supreme Council and the rule of law. One thing -- when we mention international acts, when we mention the Declaration of Independence, the Sovereignty Act, and the other thing -- when we want to go out and we want to mention the President's decrees before the presidential election. We have to have dignity. And I think that in fact and in form this paragraph should be excluded if we respect ourselves as national deputies and as a whole as the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u106	Please comment to the committee head on amendment number 16. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u107	Yes. Dear Mr. Nestor, I would like to remind you that this is President Yushchenk's decree, not President Prashenko's order, and not even President Yanukovich's order, who was afraid to cancel it. And I would like to say that unfortunately, or fortunately, we have no other concept of language policy than one that was approved by this decree, which is a really important document and which was worked on by both politicians and scientists at the time, which, as I said before, lays down fundamental rules, the role of Ukrainian language in the Ukrainian state, in Ukrainian society. That's why the committee rejected your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u108	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, please identify yourself with the 16 amendments that our colleague, Mr. Shufric, insists on. [[13:16:17]] For-19 The correction is being rejected. Next up is the 17th People's Deputy Denisenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u109	Dear Mikolo Leonidovich, honourable colleagues, in fact, I suggested that I read the following paragraph and remove it from the preamble. But the committee made a different decision. I mean, was it a decision to shorten the preamble a little bit, or was there any other logic in what was made by the committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u110	Please answer the question of your colleague, Mr. Denisenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u111	Dear Mr. Denisenko, I, in appreciation of your legislation and your initiatives, was at first quite critical of the fact that, when I mentioned the President's decree, we seem to be lowering the level of law. But since, as I said before, we have no other mention of the concept of language politics, and politicians and deputies, and scientists working on this law, have chosen this form to mention it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u112	Thank you. And I'd like to make my mark on Amendment 17, colleagues. [[13:17:44]] For-28 The correction is being rejected. The next is 18th, Mrs. Irina Konstankevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u113	Dear Mr. Mikolo, Amendment 18 referred to the norm that would allow a distinction between the Ukrainian nation and the Ukrainian political nation to be introduced into the legislative field. And this is a dangerous element and concept of hybrid war that allows the Ukrainian political nation to view as a certain analog of the multinational Soviet people. We think there's actually one Ukrainian nation, it's the only one independent of political or other components. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u114	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u115	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Irina. As I've said before, I'm not expressing my position here, I'm expressing the position of the committee. The committee rejected this amendment because the proposed consolidation of the preambular paragraphs gave rise to important positions, such as the desire of the Ukrainian State to strengthen the national and consolidating functions of the Ukrainian language. It is important for us to stress all the time that Ukrainian language should unite the country and unite society. It is by this logic that we have prepared this law. That's why the committee rejected your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u116	Thank you. I'd like to make my 18th amendment. [[13:19:14]] For-24 The amendment is not accepted. Next up is Nestor Schuffritch, 19th Amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to this amendment, it reflects our attitude towards Ukrainian as a national language so that there is no speculation. And we ask you to clarify the relevant paragraph in the following wording: "given the importance of strengthening the status of the Ukrainian language as one of the most important factors in the national identity of the Ukrainian people, guaranteeing its national sovereignty;" With this amendment, I want to close all speculation about our attitude toward the Ukrainian language. And I fully support the fact that today more than 80 percent of Ukrainians recognize Ukrainian as a national language. And that's good. But we need to stimulate the development of the Ukrainian language, not forcing it to be used. And at the same time, in conflict with our citizens of other nationalities that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u118	Thank you. Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u119	And to be honest, if we showed respect for all our citizens, we would first adopt the Law on the Languages of National Minorities under the 10th Article of the Constitution and then fight for the attitude and.. the right attitude towards Ukrainian. Today, this law is conflict - stricken and divisive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u120	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u121	Thank you. My colleagues call me and say that if we move slowly, we risk not adopting the law. Dear colleagues, we will accept, we will adopt the law, it is our responsibility. And no one — neither our conscience nor we ourselves — will allow ourselves not to do so. But this discussion makes clear to our people the essence of this law, allowing us to refute this false information that is now available. Or your view, for example, of Comrade Shufrich, because this amendment was rejected, because we cannot change the sixth preambular paragraph. It refers to the relationship between the Ukrainian language and the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian civil nation. This connection is important in view of the large number of provocations of the Ipheus, where neither the Ukrainian language nor the Ukrainian nation exist, as if there were only dialects or parts of the Russian people or the Russian world. It is from this point of view that this paragraph is important, so the committee rejected the amendment made by a colleague of Germany and a colleague of Shufric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u122	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to make an appointment for the 19th Amendment. [[13:22:15]] For-13. And I want, colleagues, to point out that the Presidium doesn't take any notice that we have to move faster. We'll follow the Rules. I can't imagine what the negative factor might be if, for example, we don't give the word to introduce one of our amendments. And they've prepared them for a few hundred. So you're suggesting that we just stop the second reading and vote? Obviously, we're going to move on to the repairs. Please, 20 revisions. National MP Denisenko, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, in fact, this amendment was more editorial in my view. It proposed to unify paragraphs six and eight of the preamble as adopted in the first reading and to place them immediately after the words “the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, making it essentially the second paragraph of the preamble. Well, as far as I'm concerned, you could count. But I would like to hear the position of the committee, why was it accepted to reject my amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u124	Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u125	Thank you. I wanted to give you a brief answer. If there's ever been any further misgivings about why we didn't initially accept the bill of protection for the languages of the national minorities that we're working on, then I want to say that my colleague didn't mind passing the bill earlier during the entire cadence. We're working on it right now. It is good for those who speak to protect minority languages to work on the laws that protect these languages. This amendment was, Mr. Wadim, yours, to remove the second and fourth preambular paragraphs from the bill. But given the special status of this law, which refers to the so-called constitutional law, that is, the law expressly provided for in the Constitution, we have few such laws, so the preamble should contain all the basic principles on which this law is based. And removing certain provisions, from our point of view, could damage the law and its perception both in Ukraine and abroad. So the committee rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u126	Thank you so much for explaining. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for the 20th amendment. 20 revisions. Was that a question to me? The 20th was an amendment. [[13:24:27]] For-28 And then there's 21 amendments. Nestor Schufrich, please. The previous amendment is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u127	I'm asking the reporter to be correct about my colleagues' accusations. That's right. Of course, after the Constitutional Court had made a rather absurd decision, but unfortunately, which we were forced to accept as Ukrainian citizens who were enforcing court decisions, we immediately passed a new law, but it was impossible to register because other laws on the subject had already been passed. And you know that alternative laws can only be passed within a limited period of time. This attempt was made. And this once again highlights your position that having laws that today would regulate the attitude of all. The use of all languages in Ukraine, you're promoting this law and breaking society. And in view of this situation, I urge you to put out the corresponding paragraph as follows.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u128	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u129	Basically, it's for. You can read out my amendment. So we don't have to waste time. I'm asking her to put to the vote in the text that is now written, and she's also using it. The protection of the languages that our citizens use today, except for Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u130	Thank you for your clarification. And please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u131	Colleagues, we've already discussed this subject, I haven't accused you of anything, I've just called for more active work to protect rights in the language of national minorities, not just by declaration, but indeed. And I would urge you even more to protect your family and your native Ukrainian language, which you speak beautifully, but unfortunately you are not always helping us to establish in Ukrainian society to protect Ukraine from both Russian pressure and Russian aggression. As a result, the committee recommended that the amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u132	Guys, I'm asking you to determine the direction that we're discussing right now. Remind me, this is Nestor Schuffric's 21th amendment, which along with his colleagues has prepared a record number of amendments to this bill. Please. [[13:27:09]] For the 10th. The correction is being rejected. Next up is Irina Konstankevich, please, 22 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u133	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u134	Don't insist. Thank you. The next is the national deputy of Sergey, 23th Amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u135	Sergeyevtushka, "The Fatherland." Without a doubt, language is the same in principle and symbol as Herb and Flag and the Constitution of Ukraine, and we should have our own language. In view of this, we have looked at how this has happened in other countries, such as Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and the Italians, as proposed. So I put an amendment to the preamble, which clearly refers to the concept of "national rebirth." And he asked me to write, "taking into account the experience of the peoples that have come into the path of their national rebirth," and so on and so forth. I would like to comment, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, because we need to make sure that we have a real mechanism that will enable and teach Ukrainian, and at the same time will not limit the rights of others there who want to communicate in other languages. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u136	Please comment to the chairman of the committee on the question of the distinguished colleague Eustace. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u137	Thank you, colleagues, for your work, for your work. We discussed this on the committee. This amendment was rejected because the reference in the preamble to the experience of the nations on the path of national rebirth goes beyond the regulation of this law. We cannot regulate the experience of other nations. Moreover, this evidence may need to be taken into account and sometimes rejected, for it has not always been positive, as we know from our history. Even though I understand your positive position and your adjustment to this law, I promise you that in working on the following laws, including the law on national minorities, we will work with you to discuss how to formulate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u138	Please determine the 23rd Amendment of the People’s Deputy. [[13:29:21]] For-29 The correction is being rejected. The next is Amendment 24. Mrs. Konstankevich insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u139	By amendment 24, Mr. Mikolo, we wanted to point out that the destruction of Ukrainian identity through the displacement and marginalization of the Ukrainian language and is now an object of considerable effort in the Russian Federation, which is making aggression against us. And we can't say that Ukrainian and Russian languages are currently competing freely. In fact, formally private, but actually controlled by the Moscow Kremlin, structures are purposeful and constantly expending considerable resources to promote Russian language in the information space and squeeze it out of the information space of Ukraine. Televisions like NewsOne, "Inter" through intermediaries is owned by Putin, and is a visual example of what Ukrainian, in the media, especially on television, the Internet, is not equal, is equivalent. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u140	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u141	From this point of view, I support your civil and political position, and I share it. Indeed, the history of the destruction of Ukrainian identity under the influence of the Russian Empire and the Soviet Union is important to us, especially at a time when Ukraine is forced to defend its right to exist again now and to fight Russia. However, the bill applies only to the status of the national language. This must be the law for decades, including the time when the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine will cease and when we will win this Ukrainian-Russian war. So the committee decided not to supplement the preamble with temporary factors that are relevant to us, but when we accept it, we will lose, we believe, relevance in a few years. Because no one, I don't think we're going to win this aggressor final. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u142	Thank you. Please identify all colleagues with 24 amendments. [[13:31:35]] For-59 The correction is being rejected. The next is the same thing as Mrs. Konstankovic, 25th Amendment. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u143	No, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u144	No, you don't. 26th. National MP Denisenko, you have a microphone. Mr. Denisenko, 26th, don't you insist? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u145	In fact, this right suggested that the preamble to the law should be supplemented by a paragraph of the following content: "Having in mind that for almost 300 years the Russian Empire and its heir the Soviet Union have tried in various ways to humiliate and destroy the Ukrainian language in order to destroy their own identity and unity of the Ukrainian nation, which has led to the artificial ruse of Ukraine and the illegal displacement of Ukrainian language from many spheres of social life." Actually, I would just like to remind everyone that in 1918, one of the Red Army commanders of Antonov-Ovienko was teaching the Red Army. I will quote in the original language: "There is a people of thirty million against you whose names cannot be pronounced. They're beasts, they can't be talked to like decent people. On the contrary, the heart is stronger, the nerves are stronger. We must endure all that is impossible from Ukraine in order to strengthen Russia's military capabilities.” In fact, the same thing is happening now, unfortunately, in the east and in the Crimea. So, from my point of view, this is an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u146	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u147	I believe that this amendment would have to be included in this bill, and I will insist that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u148	Please comment, Mr. Knieżicky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u149	Thank you, Mr. Wadim. Of course, I agree with you, as well as with an amendment that Mrs. Konstankevich did not insist on, which also applied to this. When we discussed these changes, we unfortunately found that the scope of this law was to ourselves. We cannot regulate the history of the Russian Empire by this law. They'd be happy to settle it, but they're only out of our capacity on the committee, so they've turned it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u150	Thank you. Please be determined by 26 amendments. [[13:33:50]] For-42 The correction is being rejected. The next one is the 27th amendment. Please, National Deputy Denisenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u151	In fact, it is proposed that this amendment amend the preamble to the law with the following wording: "Having in mind that the Russian Federation, while continuing its policy of the former Russian Empire and the Soviet Union, has committed against Ukraine both military and information and cultural aggression aimed at destroying Ukrainian national and cultural identity." In fact, I would also like us to. I insist that this amendment be voted on. And I think because of today's situation, because of Russia's aggression, because we have a war in the East with the Russian Federation, I think that this amendment is worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u152	Please comment on the 27th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u153	Thank you, Mr. Wadim. I want to tell you, colleagues, that if you take into account the language laws of other countries, we were asked to take their experience into account, and somewhere it is positive, somewhere it is negative, some of these laws are made on one page at all, and some of them on paper, we have an extremely large document. Obviously, the things you're talking about, every patriot, a man of democratic, pro-Ukrainian, patriotic views, separates and can't disagree with you. But we can't write in the law all the norms that would reflect, for example, the struggle of the Ukrainian people with colonizers, with the Russian Empire, because this law will turn into a textbook, not because we disagree with you essentially. In fact, we obviously support you, this item has not been supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u154	I'd like to make my 27th grade. [[13:35:36]] For-53 The correction is being rejected. The next is 28 amendments, and so is the national MP Denisenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, this right has been proposed to supplement the preamble to the law with a paragraph of the following content: "taking into account that the current processes of globalization force nations around the world to take legislative measures to ensure and protect their national languages as the most important part of their cultural identity of rejuvenating pressure." The thing is, we all know very well how it protects its language at the national level of France, how it protects its language at the national level of Poland, how it protects its language in Germany and virtually all the countries of the European Union. Thus, from this point of view, it was suggested that such an amendment should be made. I would like to comment on why it was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u156	Thank you very much. Please explain 28 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u157	The 28th amendment was rejected for the reason that, as in the 27th amendment, we said that we could not regulate the history of the Russian Empire by law, so we cannot regulate the processes of globalization by law as well. Because the process of globalization is not the sphere of regulation of this law, so this amendment has been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u158	I'd like to make a statement on the 28th amendment. [[13:37:06]] For-33 The correction is being rejected. The next is Amendment 29, People's Deputy Brenzovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u159	I propose the deletion of paragraph 8 of the preamble, because in this case the text is being collected, not even by a sub-law, but in the context of the analysis document of the Venice Commission prepared for another bill in the 11th year, with two quotations from two parts of the document. In particular, I would like to point out that, despite the strong recommendations of the European institutions, the Head of the Supreme Council has never sent this bill to the Venice Commission. Perhaps Ukraine’s inconsolable conclusion regarding this law will come after its adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u160	Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u161	First, I would like to say that the reference in the text of the preamble to the conclusion of the Venice Commission is related to the fact that it contains the recommendations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the Law on State Language, which introduces the mechanism of attention, is a quote, "the sovereignty of the Ukrainian language as a single national language and to take additional measures to strengthen its role in the Ukrainian society." In view of this, the conclusion of the Venice Commission is an important international document, referenced in the preamble to which the law removes all possible speculation around its adoption. The "transitional positions" of the law will be implemented if we adopt it, and another recommendation from the Venice Commission: to postpone the entry into force of the Education Act, article 7 of the Education Act, as you know. So this law is totally European, which is discussed with many international representatives, embassies, and accepted by the international community, because it puts the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian people in the same line with the fraternal European peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u162	Please be determined by this amendment, colleagues. [[13:39:11]] For 20 The correction is being rejected. And then there's 30 amendments. National MP Romanovski. The next amendment is People's Deputy Shufrich, 36th. Please. 36th. Please, Mr. Nestor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u163	Please place the account on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u164	I'm sorry. Now, a minute, a minute. Wait a minute, please! I called the 30th amendment of Romanowski. She did. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail Please, the microphone. Now, a minute, a minute, I can see everything. Mr. Papi's microphone. I can't hear what you're insisting on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear Irina Volodymyrically, dear colleagues! We have 34 amendments that are edited. I'd like to put it on confirmation. And before that, I want to make the next point. Look at this, and this is my question to the reporter. The drafters of the bill were Ukrainian national deputies, as well as alternative drafts. The Cabinet of Ministers has not been able to declare its position at all, because the Cabinet of Ministers is required to submit a bill that would be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Cabinet of Ministers. So he hasn't managed to take any position on this issue at all, and now he wants to jump on this train that's leaving, and show them how concerned they are about the problem of the state language in Ukraine. So when you give the floor to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I would ask you not to violate the Rules, but I would like to place this amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u166	Thank you. So you're insisting on voting for this amendment right now. Her author is Mr. Rybczynski, he's not here. I now give the floor to the head of the committee, and then I give the word to the government, because you mentioned it in a negative context. Please, please, Mr. Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u167	Well, first of all, I would like to stress once again that the initiators of the drafting of this bill were originally public organizations, which. and the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture, i.e. the government. The government has assembled a working group where representatives of the public, Ukrainian national deputies, including Mrs. Irina Podoljak, Mrs. Siroid, Mr. Lesyuk, have worked in this group and many other national deputies. After that, the national MPs had already introduced a project developed by the government, and then there was a process in the Supreme Council, where there were several bills, among other things, that were not alternatives. So this was the process. This is about your amendment. It is edited only as part of the deletion of the Venice Commission’s conclusion number. So we're going to put it on confirmation, or we're going to put it on confirmation -- it's not going to change the substance of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u168	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Papiev again and again directs his mediation and questions as to why the bill is ungovernmental. Please give me a minute to comment to the government. Now, just a minute. Dear Mr. Papiev, you're directing questions. That's not my question. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleague, I'm making a decision now. Please, one minute is the Deputy Prime Minister's comment, and then we move on the amendment of the deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, it's very interesting to see these crocodile tears shed by people who have spent their entire political lives speaking against any Ukrainian language law, unless it protects Russian. So for those who are really interested in protecting the Ukrainian language, I report. In March of this year, the government decided to form a working group to support the use of Ukrainian as a national language. The government, with the participation of representatives of all interested ministries, reviewed four bills and, together with the public, adopted a decision to support 5670-d, because the opinion and position of the Cabinet of Ministers fully coincided with that bill, which was sent to Parliament by official letters from the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Culture. And now, and in the first reading to this 5670-d, this bill is a bill officially supported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u170	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm asking you to stand up now. I saw it. Now we have the requirement of the People's Deputies of Papiev to make 34 amendments. I'd like to make a statement. Colleagues, I emphasize that the committee and the government are asking her to support it, this amendment. Please make up your mind, please make up your mind. We also thank the committee and the government for explaining that the bill that we are considering is the cooperation of public organizations. [[13:44:20]] For-50 50 -- over and over and over and over and over again, you're intelligent people in your sector. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm surprised, I'm surprised. 50 for you, Mr. Papiev. This amendment is rejected. We are also grateful for the clarification of the committee and the government that the bill was worked together by public organizations, activists, government, and parliament. Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Krivenk, who insists on giving him the word long ago. Please. And call the repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u171	35 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u172	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u173	35th, Mrs. Konstankevich. She's just fine. Dear Chairman, look, we have 2,082 amendments. At least half of them are from the Opposition Block, that's one minute to read them. Before you answer them, the answer to Mr. Knieżicki is 20 seconds, and the minute is his answer. It's 2333 minutes, it's almost 40 hours. We have only a full-time job in two plenary weeks, less than 30. Less than 30! That's what I said, just for the amendments that are in the Opposition Block. So I call on all the national MPs, and I didn't make more than 50 amendments when I saw the technology that's coming together and the BP and the Fatherland to break this law -- we didn't work for lunch for two hours. I support the creation of a commission, but I urge you all to ask a colleague to take your amendments, and so we can spend three seconds, because we won't be able to accept it. And after the President's election, we won't accept him, and you know it. Thank you. This is my position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian language is worth spending 40 hours of our time with her. We have a time for Ukrainian language. Always! And we're going to adopt this law. And in the elections of the President of Ukraine, which will be democratically held, life in Ukraine does not end, but begins. So please, please, please. Now there's no need, no need to discuss the 35th amendment that Mr. Krivenko asked for, he just wanted to encourage us to work faster. The next is Amendment 36, National Deputy Nestor Schuffric. And then, Oksani, I'll give you my word. Please. Yes, please, Nestor Ivanovich, your word for the 36th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u175	Thank you. With all due respect to the Venice Commission, to its institution, I believe that any reference to its recommendations would probably be correct in the explanatory note, not in the text of the Ukrainian Law, so as not to overload it. This is our first position. The other one. Let's be clear that even in these conclusions of the Venice Commission, these are actually selected from the general context. So I think this paragraph needs to be removed. And in our subsequent amendments, you will again see our attitude toward the Ukrainian language, but we are for the purity of accepting the document and for its uniting society, not for questioning and dissipating it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u176	Thank you. And I'm asking for an explanation of the 36th amendment committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u177	The committee rejected the amendment for the reasons set out in amendment 24. According to the committee, we cannot exclude the paragraph on the conclusion of the Venice Commission from the preamble. The reference in the text of the preamble to this conclusion is that it contains recommendations from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the Law on State Language, which establishes mechanisms for the rule of Ukrainian language as the only national, to take additional measures to strengthen its role in Ukrainian society. In view of this, the conclusion of the Venice Commission is an important international document, referenced in the preamble to which the law removes all possible speculation around its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u178	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for the correction of Nestor Schuffrich. And on occasion, of course, we thank the opposition that is actively involved in the drafting of the law to the second reading. We appreciate that. Please be sure. [[13:48:44]] For the 18th. The correction is being rejected. And now, please, the word of Oksani Bilozer, who was one of the most active participants and members of this committee when the bill was finalized for second reading. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. You know, I welcome everyone, and I'm just incredibly happy that we're finally considering this bill. Clearly, we should speak in detail, for there will be a great deal of speculation after we accept it. And in order to ensure the possibility of these speculations, I would still like to -- even though I support what the committee rejected, 30 amendments -- but I would like to make sure that no one manipulates the recommendations of the Venice Commission, and I didn't blame us for not doing anything that she recommended. I would ask you to comment on the 30th amendment regarding the recommendations for the protection of other languages (this is CDL-AD 044 and Chapter C) and the protection of individual language-freedom by choice (Division D). Please detail these positions, why it is rejected, so no one can tell us that we ignored the recommendations of the Venice Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u180	Thank you for asking. Please comment to the committee head on 30 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u181	Thank you. In fact, the 30th amendment is completely duplicated by the 29th Collegiate Brenzowicz with whom we have been communicating has been debated in this room. And in response to my colleague Branzovich, I explained, and now I've just explained why it's important to us, because all of these amendments suggested that we exclude that recommendation of the Venice Commission, which speaks of the rule of Ukrainian as the only national language, and take further steps to strengthen its role in Ukrainian society. Because we have very often been told that the Venice Commission against Ukrainian language, that the Venice Commission recommends that we reject this law. So this law has just been passed to implement the recommendations of the Venice Commission, which understands that every country, its identity, its culture, its basis for them is a strong national language of its own. That's what we're saying by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u182	Thank you. Nevertheless, Mrs. Oksana Bilozer insists that we make 30 adjustments. Colleagues, please vote. I'll remind you, the committee turned her down. No, we didn't vote on the 30th. I count very carefully, Mrs. Irina. We were at 36, but Mrs. Oksana Bilozer returned to 30. [[13:51:16]] For-24 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 37, People's Deputy Denisenko. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u183	Well, first of all, I'd like to thank the committee for taking this into account editorially, but on the other hand, I'd like to tell all of my colleagues who are now starting to say that we need to adopt this law faster, we need to speed up and we need to get there literally in a few hours to adopt this law. You can't pass the Language Act in 2-3 hours. You can't take him in one day. Let's remember that really that lame, terrible law that was passed in Yanukovic's time was beaten first because it wasn't adopted under the Rules. There was an incredible amount of badness, but we were only able to beat him because he was not accepted under the Rules. Let's follow the Rules and let's go through all the amendments so that no one can then have any doubt that this law has been enacted legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u184	Thank you. Please comment on this 37th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u185	Thank you. The 37 amendment referred to the reference to the relevant recommendation by the Venice Commission, which was excluded in one part. This amendment was not confirmed by our vote, and another was included. In fact, it's a technical amendment, but I thank you for speaking to my colleague Denisenko. In fact, there were many rights before the preamble. I'd like to answer those who say we're risking not to adopt the law. Colleagues, we have entered into this law. I'm standing here on the stand, you're all sitting here. Well, can we stop considering this law without voting for it?Oh, my God! This will be the defeat of each of us, each of us factions and the whole of Ukraine. Yeah, now maybe I'm answering or interpreting some comments longer than it would have been necessary. If we don't make it or if we're going to delay this process, I'm going to stand here silently, we won't take the word. But we will not leave this room without a successful vote for this law at this or next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u186	Thank you. Please identify the 37 amendments. Colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleague Nestor Ivanovich, we are now voting for 37 amendments, and then we give you our word on your next amendment. You're noticing. It's 37th, you can't tell by it. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, now we're voting 37th. Please identify 37 amendments. Please follow Nestor Ivanovich. We're at 37. [[13:53:49]] For-42 The correction is being rejected. The next is the 38th Amendment, the People's Deputy of Shufrich. It's 38.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u187	I want to pay attention to all those who are currently following this bill, which is how we view the recommendations of the Venice Commission. What suits the authors is taken into account, quoted and even included in the law, and what does not fit is deleted. And the recommendation is the same. About 39 of my repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u188	38th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u189	Thirty-eight repairs. We ask her to write in the next edition, "The State Language in Ukraine." This article is appropriately related to the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u190	Thank you. Please comment now to the chairman of the committee. At the same time, I would like to point out, Mr. Nestor Ivanovich, that at the request of your colleague, we have made 30 amendments. And there was a comment by the chairman of the committee on how the norms and recommendations of the Venice Commission fit into the body of the bill. Please comment on the 38 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u191	Thank you. First of all, I want to emphasize that they went through the preamble and started looking at Chapter I of the General Principles, where there are the most speculations around what seems to be 10 steps of criminal responsibility is being introduced for trying to introduce multilingualism. Instead, the law prohibits the introduction of multilingualism, as has been the case in certain areas, but it does not change the Criminal Code in this part. So I would like to immediately reject all speculation and say that the amendment by my colleague Shufrich and my colleague Niemchenka was rejected because Ukrainian language is the only national language in Ukraine is the norm of the Constitution. The law is repulsed by what is stated in the Constitution, so that is the title of the article. The proposed article does not take this constitutional feature into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u192	Thank you. I'd like to make 38 adjustments, colleagues. [[13:56:00]] For -14 The correction is being rejected. Colleagues, we have a few minutes to take off. Two factions came to the fore of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front. And our colleagues are ready to replace the break with an application. That's why we're asking now. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I ask you not to yell at the presidency. Ladies and gentlemen, who worked for two hours on the rostrum, is also entitled to sit down and wait for a break. Please, the head of the Peter Dustenka faction, Arthur Gerasimov, is now invited to the floor, who will replace the two factions' application for intermission.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u193	Dear Mr. Golovo, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, the faction of the Party of Peter Poshenko, is initiating the immediate establishment of a temporary investigation commission on the cynical attempts of Yulia Timoshenko to buy victory in the next presidential election. A large - scale investigation by Ukrainian law enforcement officials revealed a nationwide pyramid of voter bribery involving Russian curators. The investigation has already established 49 organizers who were to set up millions of voters for money of questionable origin, perhaps Russian money. Billions of dollars have been allocated to this scheme, and we've all seen it together. In parallel, journalists revealed the fact that Julia Timoshenko’s electoral fund was being filled by the rightful people: pensioners, supermarket cashiers, cleaners, and unemployed people contributed hundreds of thousands or even millions of dollars to Julia Volodymyrovna’s pre-election campaign. Imagine the cynicism of politics — setting up trustless, defenseless money laundering agents of criminal or Russian origin. Last week, the comrades of Timoshenko went further: for 5 million dollars they tried to bribe and intimidate one of the presidential candidates to withdraw his candidacy. The public information on voter bribery and how the electoral fund is being filled also explains why the fatherland leader tried to protect her mate Vladislav Manger. The investigation now considers the head of the Herson shell to be the main suspect in the commission of the murder of activist Catherine Gandzük. Apparently, the regional officer is also aware of the Fatherland schemes for electoral bribery and money laundering, which is why Julia Timoshenko has already promised to "save" him off charges if he becomes president. I remind you, a month ago, on the air of the national television channel, Julia Timoshenko was a paphost author of a memorandum on fair elections. With her signature, she made a commitment to resist counterfeiting and to defend the free choice of citizens. The above facts are another proof of what the false promises of the Barones of Lies are worth. The more corruption and abuse of Timoshenko’s headquarters became known, the louder she blamed the authorities. People's wisdom says, "Hold the thief," the loudest shouts who? That's right, he's a thief. So the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko calls for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry to study the materials of the election of the pyramids of Timoshenko, the mechanisms for the laundering of the funds of questionable origin through the election fund of Yulia Timoshenko, and the attempt of its allies to get rid of one of the opponents of the election races for money. We ask all parliamentary factions and groups to immediately submit their representatives to this interim commission of inquiry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that I have had a conversation with the head of the temporary commission of inquiry, John Vinnik. He informed me that a meeting scheduled for Thursday at 14:15 was agreed with all the members of the committee. Yeah? I ask all the members of the committee: that's how it's agreed, isn't it? Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m0.u195	Of course, the creation of any TSC has its own procedure. It's to send letters to all factions, to get from them the number of people who proportionally fractions can have on a temporary commission of inquiry, and then this path can already be started. And this path is the same for any faction: either opposition or coalition. So, colleagues, I want to announce. The next amendment is Germany and Shufrich. Nestor Ivanovich! Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, I'd like to inform you that at 4:00, we'll start with your appointment at 4:00. I ask you to be at the workplace and head of the committee, and I ask you to be there and the author of the amendment. I now declare this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council closed. And at 4:00 p.m., I invite everyone into the conference room to continue our work.
