ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning again. Please take your seats, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Once again, good morning, dear colleagues, distinguished media representatives, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please prepare for registration, we'll start registration in a minute. Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:09:39]] The Supreme Council of Ukraine registered 371 Ukrainian national deputies. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I'd like to welcome everyone. Today, we have four colleagues who today have a birthday. This is Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Laba. Mikhailo Mikhailovich Laba, Natalia Igorovna Prijejsko and Jaroslav Ivanovich Ruššin [[Applause]] And I would like separately to welcome the birthday of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. [[Applause]] I want health, success, strength, and the work each of the national deputies has set for me. Once again with the holiday! Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to our work. According to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for the presentations of authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, and messages. Dear colleagues, please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Larin Sergey Mikolaiovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u2	Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies, dear fellow countrymen! Yesterday we celebrated a notable date -- 75 years since the liberation of Ukraine from the fascist invaders. The glory of Ukraine, whose sons and daughters contributed greatly to this great victory. Sadly, many of them have given their lives for our future. I'm sure in this room, like myself, my loved ones and family died for a great victory. So I ask everyone to stand up and honor the moment of silence for all those who died in the Great Homeland War. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. But it is not just a victory but also a memory. We need to remember the horror that fascism has brought to our earth. But today, 75 years after the victory, the Prime Minister attends concerts of a group that does not hide its Nazi views, and dozens of monuments are opened to people who are responsible for the mass killings of Poles, Jews, Belarusians, and other thinkers of the Ukrainians. A few days ago, he was sent to the prison of Ukrainian citizens only for wearing a shirt with the coat of arms of the Soviet Union. It is bullying, and it is when you can freely go to concerts by fascist groups and boast of Nazi symbols. Dear fellow countrymen, celebrating a great victory, must remember that Fascism must be won in every generation, including ours. We will be worthy of the memory of our grandfathers and parents, the victorious grandfathers, and we will not allow fascism to lift our heads. We will not allow a rematch of Fascism to take place on Ukrainian soil. Praise be to the liberators who gave freedom to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u3	Thank you. Ustenova Alexander Yuriovna, Deputies of the Voice. Sausoon, change, please. Another Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u4	Thank you. Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, distinguished national MPs, viewers! Today, there will be rallies, protests by educators and other budget officials about the financing of the budget for the following year, both at lunchtime and before the Cabinet of Ministers, and before the Supreme Council. A particularly difficult situation is the financing of the educational field. We remember that during the election campaign, various political forces, including the majority faction, spoke of the need to raise the pay of education. Now there's a discussion about the budget for the following year, and what actually caused the outrage of the education community, and what's the problem, why today, hundreds of thousands of students are going out on the street in Kiev under the Cabinet, under the Supreme Council, is that the budget for the next year does not provide for a proper level of wage increase for the education community. We've seen that the budget provides for an increase in wages directly to the level of indexation in order to get to the level of inflation. Instead, we don't see any suggestions that guarantee that the educational community gets the right level of pay or at least begin to get closer to that level. We, as the Voice faction, support the appeal of the union, support the turn of education on what we need to show the education community how their wages will increase. Yesterday, my colleagues at the Voice Party and I met with the head of the Ukrainian education community. We agreed to hold national consultations on the wages of teachers, how they should form, what their structure should be, and how we can get to the proper level of pay for teachers. In fact, this is what teachers under the Cabinet and under the Supreme Council are going to require today. For our part, we support these appeals. And we're going to go to the government and to the majority factions to work together on the road map, how we can guarantee an increase in wages for the education community. We are convinced that the issue of paying educational work is not a matter of individual political forces. And we would very much not want this issue to be politicized in any way. We are convinced that there is no political power in Parliament that would oppose the proper pay of teachers. And that's why we're really looking forward to building a dialogue both inside the Parliament and with the government to ensure that the legitimate requirements of education are met for the proper level of pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u5	Thank you. Nadravichenko Valentin Aleksandrovich, deputy faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u6	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Today is the day and time when we can and must say the word for the protection of Ukrainian volunteers, directly supporting the volunteer battalion of Azov, every volunteer and volunteer who has protected and protected the country. There is no doubt with you today that even addressing foreign partners who may not fully know the glorious history and the modern - day Ukrainian volunteers need our position and our protection. The action and word of the "Fatherland" faction of Julia Timoshenko, "Serves of the People" and anyone who has signed for support for the protection of the Ukrainian volunteers of the "Azov" battalion and others, here now, among us. And let every citizen of Ukraine hear us, those who have protected us today will be protected by us. The task of the Supreme Council, every deputy, is to protect the protector. For those of us who doubt, perhaps even abroad, we showed everyone a year ago, we brought documentary tapes of the "Invisible Battalion" on women volunteers to the U.S. Congress. Let Maria Berlinska hear, far away from us, but she knows that, along with her brothers and sisters from the volunteer movement, the whole world has learned what Ukraine is and who really protects our territorial integrity. So today, in our Parliament, we call every national MP, raise the pen, sign a signature, protect every Ukrainian volunteer, every Ukrainian volunteer. Next. Today in the agenda, and so has the "Paternity" faction already supported, and urges the entire parliament to support by joint vote the bill that is to become the law to increase the status of the Ukrainian volunteer. So that those volunteers who went first would be the first to take the lead and not even have the right under the law to obtain status, give up their lives and are already on the front line, protecting Ukrainians. Friends like these today, boys and girls who have given their lives, 232 Ukrainians and Ukrainians. We are 416. I think we can and should do twice as much, twice as determined, by supporting a volunteer movement in Ukraine. And the "Azow" battalion and the "Right Sector" and each of the "Gospitaliers," from the invisible battalions, must become visible, respected and supported by this Parliament in our country. Glory to Ukraine! And for our American colleagues, Glory to Ulraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u7	Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u8	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich! Dear community! Respectable Ukrainian Society! The parliamentary group "For the Future" has to note that in two months our serious work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine has increased risks and concerns in a number of factors. The parliamentary group "For the Future" is paying attention to what these factors are. This is primarily agrarian reform, the land market. Dear friends, the number of people who do not believe in the opening of the earth’s market and who are concerned about the fact does not diminish. Just tomorrow, under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, agrarians are going to protest against those bills that are currently being considered on the profile committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a tariff policy that is being implemented today by the government of Ukraine. This is a subsidy policy that we see in accordance with the Verification Act instead of improving -- to take and return what people have already received. These are administrative, territorial and medical reforms. This is the Steinmayer formula and the deployment of troops on the line of delimitation. This is the lack of a peace treaty and understanding of people who are the Steinmeier formula. This is Ukraine’s external dependence on international donors, including the IMF. We're not lowering, friends, with you tax pressure, we're not adopting serious economic laws, we're just verticalizing power. We don't accept or see any improvement by social standards either. In fact, the government today does not have a serious dialogue with society because of its human resources policy that we see in places. Elevator. What is an elevator? It's a false selection, it's actually the lobbyism of other people at the point that today in the regions appoints their own people and makes decisions through the Office of the President. There is no serious matter today with the community of dialogue and what is called a social contract. We are concerned about the meeting of the High Council’s Preparatory Committee on Issues. agrarian issues, and we're worried about the issues that are being addressed. We see that locals today do not accept such innovations as are now being accepted by an agrarian committee. A proposed draft law by a profile committee that allows a company with foreign owners to acquire land if there are 3 years of work experience in Ukraine -- it is unacceptable. We don't accept the same tariff policy of government. How much will households pay for utilities — 15 percent or 20 percent? The government says today that payments won't go up. But in fact, the Ukrainian Cabinet Order 878 our citizens from May will pay more. We urge the government today to speak the truth to people, not to sow fears, and so today people are concerned about the steps we have taken with you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u9	Thank you. Eugene Nina Petrovna. Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u10	Dear people's deputies, dear Ukrainians! However, how often we have heard this: we will not be given a car; yet, after the referendum in the Netherlands, no one will ratify the Association Agreement with the European Union and we will have only enough free trade zones; yet, his Holiness will not give us Tomos about the autocafalia of our Orthodox Church. And now after the visa waiver, after the Association Agreement, after Tomos, we hear that they're not going to give us the NATO Membership Action Plan. Yes, they won't! If we don't put that question on the agenda ourselves. Those who want to solve the issue find ways to do so. Anyone who doesn't, he'll find an excuse. There's another excuse: we'll figure out another way to get into NATO. It was only ten countries that had joined the Alliance since the beginning of the century that went there through the Membership Action Plan. All of them, without exception, who received the VAT, became members of NATO. NATO is a high policy. But here, as in everyday life, it is not enough to submit documents to the higher one. It is difficult to reach the goal without compasses, maps, or support. The CDH gives all these tools. On the other hand, voluntary rejection of the Membership Action Plan seems to be a self - denial of perspective, a refusal to annoy Putin, a fear of taking responsibility for a very complex issue. There's this famous slogan: we're going to be realistic, we're going to demand the impossible. In five years, we have made tremendous progress in our relationship with NATO. This progress was acknowledged by all members of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. And I want to thank our delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly for the only common and agreed position. That is the position that will lead to success. Last year, I wrote a letter to my great friend and friend of Ukraine, Mr. Stoltenberg, to Hensek NATO, about a firm intention to obtain a VAT. Since then, however, presidential and parliamentary elections have taken place. It is very important now to give a signal to our partners: the new government supports the NATO membership course, initiated earlier, that this is the consolidated position of the President, the government, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the authorities and the opposition and, above all, the Ukrainian people's society. This is the key message of the statement that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u11	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u12	We invite the head of the Supreme Council to sign with the President an appeal to the North Atlantic Council with a firm intention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u13	Thank you. It was Mikita Ruslanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u14	Dearest.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u15	Turn on the microphone, please, Poutrayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u16	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! I've basically made another speech -- much more political and peaceful. But after I, when I listened very carefully to the President of the previous Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, heard no word about the unacceptable faction, and hopefully most of the society, the situation that has happened in the days. On the contrary, we hear again that we are not making things right, that we did not ask for something, that we did something wrong. So what I want to point out is that so far, there's a plan to unleash hate in a society that has already lost freedom and the Ukrainian state in the 17-20s because of what they didn't hear, hated, didn't want to listen to each other. I think we need to define some of the red lines ourselves, because unfortunately we're still a young democracy. Because we don't know yet, we haven't decided, maybe it's that, free thought and freedom of speech, when there are public appeals to revolts against volunteers, to veterans, to fighters in an active army during hostilities, to call for the destruction of the Supreme Commander and the head of state. Perhaps it is, indeed, the right to take its position and the right to express it, or perhaps it is a national betrayal. So it's me. We think we should take care of this. All together, we, the Supreme Council, which represents all society, no matter what thoughts are in every part of it, along with the law enforcement agencies, together with the whole society, we have to evaluate these calls. So, as a faction yesterday, we started a collection of signatures to which we refer to law enforcement agencies, and now we have to go from this rostrum to the whole community to decide whether we accept calls for murder, the desire for death of any Ukrainian citizen, even though it is the President, or is it just an average citizen. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. A statement came from two factions requesting a replacement. Replace the break for the performance. Zinkevich Jani Vadimovni is spoken of. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u18	Jan Zinkevich, "European Solidarity." Our European Solidarity Party expresses its outrage at the participation of the majority national party MP in propaganda shows. Eugene Shevchenko proved to be a traitor and a collaborator. And I'm weird. And I'm surprised at the lack of response from the "Serial of the People" party, which he represents, as a minimum, by rebutting what he said and apologizing to society. Sadly, though, he did not just apologize. At the beginning of the air, he said that he would speak on behalf of the Ukrainian authorities and offered to meet directly with the terrorist leader. The government's statement on behalf of the authorities to negotiate with terrorists is a treason. He's got to take it. He should be taken into custody by the air force, and before that, he should be removed from the touch of the Supreme Council. I hope the People's Service remembers that they are servants of the people, not the Kremlin, and they are initiating a criminal case against a collaborator. Instead of keeping an eye on their deputies, both the President and the People's Servant are attacking our deputy, Sophia Fedina. The emotional performance of Sophia Fedina is a veteran's verbal reaction. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is a verbal response to the protection of veterans, and she has expressed what is in the minds of millions, not just hers. And she's entitled to that. The president's advice to go into the army with these people. [[B in m in s a l in]] The president's advice to go to the army to those people who were protecting us all, including him, is absurd. And to me, a girl who, at the age of 18, volunteered to go to the front to protect our country, it's very strange to hear such words from a man who's been avoiding the army four times. I see that this attitude toward defenders becomes an ideology of power. The government needs to understand that we can't do that with veterans, civil society, or volunteers!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u19	Thank you. Shevchenko is a minute's motive. It's not the motive, it's the replica. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u20	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Ukraine! I'd like you to answer your colleagues' calls about my behavior. I think so. [[B in m in s a l in]] I believe that the policy of hatred, of discord, must be stopped. What your colleagues are doing in faction -- calling for the killing of the President -- is unacceptable. And the U.S.S.A. should evaluate your deputies, your actions. And our mission is to offer peace and stability in Ukraine and as a result of the economic development and well-being of people in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to. [[B in m in s a l in]] There was no last name. No, it's not a replica. Colleagues, there's no rapping. Arthur Volodymyrovich, you know perfectly well that there are no replicas on the line. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are invited to make changes to the agenda for the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 2101-10). Should we discuss it, or can we make a decision now? I ask you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare, we will now vote. I propose the adoption of a draft Order amending the agenda for the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 2101-10). Please support and vote. [[10:38:19]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. 215 - "Serial of the people", non-factional - 4. Dear colleagues, the question of the day’s order, of its changes, can be put to the vote again. Is there a denial? None. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:39:50]] For 240 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. "Serve of the People" - 220, "Responsible Platform for Life" - 16, "European Solidarity" - 0, "Fatherhood" - 0, "For the Future" - 0, "Voice" - 4, "non-fractional" - 4. Thank you. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, I would like to speak to Babak Sergey Vitaliovich about Bill 2299. With motive, excuse me, with motive. Please turn on your grandmother’s motive microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation asks that the daily bill 2299 be put into order and considered by a summary procedure. This is due to the need for the Ministry of Education and Science to change the conditions of admission to higher education institutions in order to make the changes work in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u23	Just a minute. Dear colleagues, this is about halving the deadlines for introducing alternative bills into Bill 2299. Is there any objection to this issue? If not. Is there a denial? The procedure is Shufrich and the procedure is Shahov. Turn on the microphone of Sufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u24	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Our faction is fundamentally relevant to the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And if our colleagues, even our political opponents, are willing to initiate the bills they consider necessary in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we support such an initiative. We act in principle to set up the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u25	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u26	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, I am turning from all the families of miners and miners to Parliament, to the Committee on Budgets. The miners did not come to the walls today with bounce hammers for the strike because they had not paid their wages or made any changes to the 2019 budget. Sailors today demand that we immediately assemble a budget committee and make adjustments to the 2019 budget at cost. I turn to the children of miners, to the mothers of miners, to the parents of all areas: Volinski, Luhansk, Donetsk. This is no gate today that includes the abuse of people who work in a mine for a thousand meters. Why is it that Ukrainians are paid abroad, in America, and in Africa for coal, and our miners have not paid their wages for five months?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u27	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u28	Imagine if you hadn't received a salary and fed your children for five months? Note this. Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, first answer to Sergey Volodymyrovich. Sergey Volodymyrovich, this question is on the table on Thursday. Why on Thursday? Because the committee will be sitting tomorrow, and on Thursday we'll be in this room discussing questions about. And not just miners, there are many changes to the 2019 budget. And that's why we need to work out, that's a big document. And in order for us to get a good look at this issue, we're going to have to hold a committee that's going to take place tomorrow. The committee head has just announced that. Dear colleagues, back to the question raised by the committee’s chairman, Babak. Can we now put to the vote the issue of the decision to shorten half the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to draft Law 2299 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving higher education. Is there no objection? No, it's a vote, there can't be an "e" or a "n" here. I'm asking, if there is, there is, okay. But we will put it to a vote, and it will be decided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. As the Council will decide, so will be. You know, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, it was the invitation of the committee head to shorten half the time of preparation for the second reading. I'm sorry, there's a time limit for introducing alternative bills to Bill 2299. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. With motive? In the meantime, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please turn on Kirilenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! Dear Lord Chairman! I'm asking for a little political degree to fall. We certainly need to adopt this law. And I support the committee head's proposal to shorten the deadlines for the submission of alternatives, because these are the rules for admission to higher education institutions next year, we need to give the rules for the game now. These are tens of thousands of young people and tens of thousands of parents who need to know how and what to do. So let's, guys, let's just be sure that we give the rules of the game on time, this is so important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u31	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. Sussun Inna Romanovna Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u32	Dear colleagues! I want everyone in the room to understand what changes are being made to the reception conditions. One of the changes proposed by this law is the introduction of an amendment to which a letter of motivation will be counted when entering the university. How will this motivational letter at the university be evaluated, how transparent and understandable this procedure will be, I personally have a question. As far as the system is ready to implement this standard today, I have the same question. So I would say not to rush into these decisions and realize clearly that some of these changes today are weakening the weight of external independent evaluation when entering universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u33	Thank you. I think even between the first and second readings, taking into account the professional features that are on this committee, you can correct any mistakes if they are even there today. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to take a decision to shorten half the deadlines for the introduction of alternative bills to draft Act No. 2299 amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve higher education. Please prepare, please support and vote. [[10:47:51]] For 262 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on granting status and social guarantees to individuals from the number of participants in an anti-terrorism operation (registration number 2045) and alternative 2045-1. I would like to consider the above-mentioned issue in a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[10:48:45.]] For 270. Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Friz Irina Vasilovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I have the honour to present Bill 2045 today, and by procedure and regulation, I should be talking today about the purpose, the justification, the task of this bill and the need for its adoption. But I'll talk about something else. First of all, I want to turn to you. Distinguished volunteers, respected veterans, respected Ukrainians, and respected national deputies! There are no alternative two bills in the Supreme Council today. Why? Because the two bills that the session hall will consider today are identical. How did this happen? First of all, it's a political conjuncture, and I don't want to stop at it. Secondly, this is the purposeful hard work of initiators, inspirers and lobbyists of this bill. And I want to thank them from this rostrum. These are representatives of the Volunteers G.O. Anna Demidenko, thank you. Anastasia Romer, thank you. The First Deputy Minister for Veterans' Affairs, Gregory Galagana, thank you. First Deputy Minister for Veterans et cetera Anton Columbus, thank you for being able to bring this legislative initiative to the session hall. There was a precedent, a review of the decision of the profile committee. And if it was initially approved to support this bill on the basis and in general, today you have a profiling committee and perhaps some of the authors will only propose this bill on the basis. Not surprisingly, I am the representative of the faction "European Solidarity" and the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u35	Let me finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u36	I will ask you, Your Honor, to consider the decision and to adopt Bill 2045-1. I wasn't wrong: 2045-1 based.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u37	National Deputy Tishchenko Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u38	Once, once, everyone listens to me? Can everyone hear it? A historic event. Good afternoon, dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Bill 2045-1 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on granting status and social guarantees to individuals involved in an anti-terrorist operation whose main objective is to establish legal status and to establish social guarantees for all participants in a voluntary military operation in Ukraine. Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky defined the bill as urgent. Experts estimate that there are about 3,000 volunteers in our country who are volunteers without the appropriate status of a participant in combat. And our team, and the President's team, the MPs, all who signed this bill -- "The Voice," BUTU -- are all, this bill is unifying, social. These people are willing. Thus, our volunteers protected us and protected the independence of our Ukraine, its sovereignty, and its territorial integrity. Now it's our turn to defend their rights, and that's the least we can do for them, for our heroes. The project is proposed to supplement the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, to guarantee their social protection, by adding to the list of participants in the hostilities of persons who, prior to the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on the Characteristics of State Policy, provided for the State sovereignty of Ukraine in temporarily occupied territories in Donetsk and Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u39	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u40	I don't need a microphone. I'm going to be heard by society anyway. The tasks of an antiterrorist operation were directly carried out at least 30 calendar days in the areas where it was carried out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u41	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u42	The bill proposes the establishment of a mechanism for deciding whether to grant the status of a participant to such persons and to provide clear reasons. Please vote and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u43	Thank you. Thank you, Mikolayovich. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to the Third Party Galina Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u44	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! At its October 16th meeting, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and the Protection of Veterans' Rights adopted a decision and considered a bill to amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts on granting status and social guarantees to individuals involved in anti-terrorist operations (beginning registration No. 2045), submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies and others, and an alternative bill to it on amending the number. to amend Ukraine's legislative acts on the granting of the status of participants in hostilities to individual persons involved in an anti-terror operation (registration number 2045-1). The second bill was passed by three factions. And this bill is trying to resolve a question that has not been settled in Ukraine for four years. Bill 2045-1 proposes to grant the status of a participant in hostilities to volunteers who have voluntarily defended Ukraine’s independence and sovereignty and to those who have participated in hostilities for more than 30 days. The project also proposes not to extend the status of a participant in hostilities to persons who have engaged and directly participated in the provision of anti-terrorist operations. According to the committee, the alternative bill, unlike the main one, is more effective in laying out the position of the circle of persons who are recognized to be involved in hostilities. National MPs, members of the committee, when considering the bill, expressed a position that the adoption of the bill would more effectively ensure the implementation of the purpose and purpose of the bill. At the same time, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority stated that it was appropriate to give back to the subject the right of legislative initiative for further development. The committee therefore decided to adopt Bill 2045-1 as a basis, and as a committee we made a commitment to work on the standard procedure. Please support this bill of all factions. And I think that voting for this bill will show how the room reacts.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u45	Thank you, Helen Mikolayevna. Zinkevich Jani Vadimovni, the head of TSK, is now given the floor. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u46	Thank you, colleagues. She is Zinkevich, head of the Temporary Special Committee on Veterans. We had already held our first session of our commission, at which we made an urgent decision to support Bill 2045-1. And given the political relevance, as this bill was passed on behalf of the "Serve of the People", "Paternal Motherhood." And we understand that, unfortunately, this law is completely copied from our European Solidarity. But as volunteers do, we decided on the committee to recommend it as a basis and as a whole. And we'll ask all the deputies to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u47	Thank you. Two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two Friz Irina Vasilovna. Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u48	Dear Ukrainians, you know, on the front it's all clear: there's yours, there's an enemy; there's white, there's black. Today we're in a session room where 50 shades of gray are lost to many people's morals, honor and dignity. When "servants" can shout "disgusting!" A 24-year-old girl who saved the front with thousands of wounded. Because they don't know what black and white is. When the law on volunteers can represent stealing this law. In general, thefts become unrepressive on the front. When the law can be stolen in the authorship of Jana, Iri Fryz simply because they have wrong names, and they represent a minority, not a majority. And I'm very sorry that the stolen law was signed by Voice and Fatherland. I hope we vote for plagiarism for the last time in this room. I mean, more disgrace than today when you were yelling, "Damn!" Jani, I haven't heard from you in my life. And I think the speaker should apologize for his faction that doesn't realize what dignity is. As statesmen, we will uphold a law that defines the status of volunteers, including Jan. And we demand that those factions, which are unfortunately to be signed under the stolen law, along with us, friends, support his vote today as a basis and as a whole. Because this law awaits thousands of volunteers. And it's very important that we get along with you later, not only with the right names, but also adopt a law that will reconcile the status of the military medics who also need it today, the hospitalists and the angels who are saving thousands of volunteers in the war today. Well, you volunteers, who were the white angels of our future victory in the 14th year, thank you. And I'm sorry, siri rules the ball today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u49	Thank you, Irina Volodymyrno. I can't help but agree, I hope that soon in Ukraine all those who have put their hand in the military marauding will be held accountable. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Lesi Vasilko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u51	Colleagues, we're talking today about a topic that has long matured and matured in Ukrainian society. And first of all, we're talking about people, men and women who first responded to the enemy's shots, took up arms and went to protect Ukrainian borders from the Russian aggressor. These people certainly didn't think about the status or the benefits. However, it is these people who have been overlooked by the State and outside the law. Since December 30, 2014, the Eighth Calling Council has tried 19 times to resolve the issue of volunteers, but none of the 19 drafts aimed exclusively at granting UBB status to volunteers have been adopted. You and I are looking at Bills 20 and 21. Their difference is that they weren't written in the walls of the Supreme Council, in the Office of the President, or in the Office of the President, or in other government institutions, they were written by volunteers and volunteers for themselves, consulting lawyers and the General Staff, and the BSS, to make this law work and to make it work fairly. Our business is with you, colleagues, for the little one. The question of volunteering is not a question or a topic for a show or a political pianist. We have a new council, new faces, new people, we have the service of the people, and old traditions? Let us not take the path of the empty promises of the last Council. I call upon all of us, at last, to exercise political will, to restore historical justice and finally, in the sixth year of war, to recognize volunteers as participants in hostilities. This bill deserves to be accepted as a basis now and in general, or at least by a reduced procedure. And I'd like to see that vote now. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u52	Thank you, Olesia Volodymyr. The word is given to Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich, "Responsible.".. Is there a Papiev in the hall?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u53	It's in the hall. I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u54	Turn on the microphone from the spot, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u56	Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska. From where?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, we would like to point out immediately that we have a point to this bill, and we insist that we have the opportunity to amend the second reading. That's the first one. Secondly, we're surprised by the position of European Solidarity, which for five years has been in power and who haven't figured it out, and now they're depicting themselves as heroes. So, Your Honor, we would also like to remind you that in five years, while you were in power, not only did you not protect the volunteers, you never considered the protection of the people, the peaceful citizens who suffered in eastern Ukraine, the people who lived in war for five years, the children who were injured, the children who had lost their health, they are now receiving no support from the state. And that is why we ask Parliament to consider urgently the question of Bill 1115: the draft Law on the Status and Social Protection of Civilians who have suffered as a result of hostilities or armed conflicts. Bill 2084: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to strengthen the social protection of children who have suffered as a result of hostilities or armed conflict. Because we are today obliged to protect those who lose their health every day, risk their lives, and perform the functions of the state, of those who work as teachers, doctors, and social workers who perform a national function on the front line every day. Now they're not getting anything, not a single penny of pay, not a single social security, not a single status. And that's why we have to solve this issue in a complex way. And we insist that peaceful citizens, children who live in war, be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u58	Taras Ivanovich Batenko, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u59	Dear friends, dear colleagues, as to us, this is a critical, morally important bill, to which this Parliament has been going on for too long, and unfortunately, the previous call to parliament has not finally been able to work and accept it definitively. Let us keep in mind that we have a sixth year of war. The sixth year. We survived the Debalts, Ilovysk. We have over 13,000 dead in this war. And we have volunteer battalions, such as Azov, which we are all with you, representatives of various factions, MPs and independent parliamentarians, to protect against bringing this battalion into the list of terrorist organizations. Like the Dnipro Battalion, the Donbas Battalion, the Krivbas Battalion and others. And it is obvious that this bill is absolutely important to recognize that we are legally regulating the status of persons who have defended Ukraine's State sovereignty without being part of military official, legitimate armed formations. Friends, but we need to keep in mind other things. We should keep in mind that we have many volunteers who have died on the front. We have many volunteers who are missing. We have many volunteers who died from injuries and other causes at home. And the families of the fallen volunteers received nothing from the state. If they did, they received from ordinary people who looked like funerals. I believe that all these circumstances, the prescription of a participant in combat, which regarding volunteers, both alive and dead, should be more clearly reflected in this bill. Likewise to volunteers who do not support his participation in the formation, because there is no head of the unit because he died on the front. Let's take all these comments into account for the second reading. Our MP group is voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u60	Thank you, Your Honor. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u61	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Great veterans, dear Ukrainians, distinguished colleagues! Today, in this room and from this rostrum, there is a dispute between who wrote this bill. Dear colleagues, the authors of this bill are volunteers, they are volunteers who have been waiting for this bill for five years. And it is very sad that, indeed, during the sixth year of the war, hundreds of volunteers did not await this law. They went into eternity, and their families beat down the civil service thresholds, seeking basic respect and recognition of children by families of members of the fighting. Today, I am sure that this room will demonstrate unity for the future. Because these.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u62	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u63	Because these people are volunteers, they became the first on the verge of protecting Ukraine at a time when the Ukrainian army was still being formed. Thank you to our volunteers! And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u64	Heroim Slava! Thank you. All those who wanted to speak. Fries is a motive. And let's go to the vote. Please prepare yourself and take your seats as national deputies. A minute is a Friz, with motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u65	Thank you, Mr. Head. I have a request, if there is no possibility in the room today to consider and adopt a decision on the basis and the whole of Bill 2045-1, to request the committee for a second reading under a reduced procedure to prepare a single draft on the basis of two bills, because they are identical. And another thing, I asked the Hall to honor the moment of silence of all the fallen volunteers who gave their lives for our independence and our sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u66	Please sit down. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the granting of status and social guarantees to individual persons involved in an anti-terror operation (registration number 2045-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:11:57]] For 321 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues. Show me the factions, please. Servant of the People – 225, Opposition Platform – Life – 1, European Solidarity – 24, Fatherhood – 19, Future – 18, Voice – 17, Non-fractional – 17. Dear colleagues, the offer has repeatedly been made by almost all the political forces who have spoken about reducing the half - time period of preparation for second reading. That is why, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half the deadlines for the preparation of proposals and the rights to second reading. Bill registration number 2045-1. Please support and vote [[11:13:03]] For 318 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next order of the day. The factions. Let's see the factions. "People's Servant" – 227, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 24, "The Fatherhood" – 18, "For the Future" – 15, "The Voice" – 16, "the Non-Factional" – 18. Dear colleagues, you have before you the proposed bill registration number 2063, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that the person who has the right to protection has access. It is suggested that this bill be considered in a simplified manner. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:14:05]] For 261 Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Vlasenek Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u67	Thank you, Mr. Head. Too bad, of course, it's not a full procedure. Dear colleagues, this bill is not about politics, this bill is, in fact, about one of the most important, of my deep conviction, the right to defend. Believe me, we're all going to need it. Regrettably, all colleagues who have previously been involved in legal activity or in law enforcement know what practice exists with regard to the possibility of access to their clients who are already in prison. Suppose, in practice, I had a situation where a lawyer was not allowed to go to a prisoner for a year and told terrible stories about a person refusing to meet a lawyer. One year later, it was discovered that this man had been molested, that he was in a limited-access room -- whether in a cell or in a medical ward, but the administration of the place of punishment said that everything was fine, everything was fine, and so on. In order to avoid all these things, and it was developed, proposed to you, Bill 2063. I would like to thank all the members of the Legal Policy Committee who, having considered this bill in a professional manner, have unanimously recommended that the Supreme Council support it in the first reading on the basis and have expressed a number of technical comments that I believe we will all correct together in preparing for the second reading. Once again, I urge everyone to support this bill, and the legal community and the legal community are really looking forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u68	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head of the committee’s committee on legal policy, Fris Igor Petrovich. Pavlovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u69	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The committee on legal policy considered the bill, which was submitted by the national deputy Vlasenk on September 6. October 16, 19, I'm sorry. According to an explanatory note to the bill, it was designed to improve the access mechanism and to implement the right to protection in criminal proceedings at the time of the punishment. The main provisions of the bill are to amend the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine, the Law on Pre-Prisonment in order to improve the mechanism of the right to protection by possible direct access to the suspect, accused, sentenced to defender on any given day - whether it is working days, whether it is weekends, holidays - and properly informing the said defender of the change in the legal procedural status of his defendant. As we know with you all, the Constitution of Ukraine has not only the basic principles, rights and freedoms of man and citizen, but also the corresponding constitutional guarantees and protection of a person who will be punished, including. Some of its comments to the bill were made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate of the Supreme Council, but on the Committee's consideration, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko explained his vision, his opinion on the bill, and the committee agreed. It was decided that some disagreements would be removed to the second reading. Taking this into account, on the basis of the Legal Policy Committee presented at its meeting, the Supreme Council recommended in its first reading and on the basis of the adoption of a bill on the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to ensure that the person who has access to the person has access to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u70	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u71	Registration number 2063, September 4, 2019, submitted by the National MP Vlasenk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u72	Thank you, Igor Pavlovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up: two for, two for, two for, two for factions. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP for the Future. Bondar Victor Vasilovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, an extremely important bill. We offer to support it. In fact, we're making changes to the criminal process, we're giving a lawyer the right from the very first hours to take up his duties, to get to the people during their detention, to meet at the establishments where they're staying and staying, and on the weekends, and on the holidays, and it's going to give people the opportunity, really, to feel that there's some kind of protection. Today, it has been said repeatedly that there have been cases where for years lawyers have not been able to get to their underprotectors, they have been held by law enforcement authorities, and they have not been allowed to meet to do what they needed to do in order to carry out their performance. We know the crown tricks of law enforcement agencies when early Fridays were always held back for Saturdays, Sundays, Saturdays, Sundays, lawyers, decision - making, interrogations, and so forth. That's why this bill will allow, in fact, to raise the role and status of lawyers in criminal proceedings, allow a person to defend himself, allow him to see the underprotective and on holidays, and on non-working days, and at any time he needs it. We support and propose to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u74	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u75	Jan Zinkevich, "European Solidarity." Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u76	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u77	Thank you, Jani, thank you, Mr. Head. My fellow Members, it seems to me that I will take the liberty of saying that this is one of the bills for which, in principle, Parliament works, because it is directed specifically to the protection, the constitutional right to defend. And it refers not only to people who are convicted, but also to those who are suspected and accused, that is, a comprehensive bill. And it refers not only to the Criminal Procedure Code, as has just been said, but to a greater extent to the adaptation of the Criminal Execution Code to the Criminal Procedural Code and to the improvement of the Criminal Procedural Code. There are four things that are most important. The author suggests that he should be supported here, and that the lawyer, lawyer or legal representative is entitled to unlimited meetings with his client from 7 to 20 hours, whether on a working day, off work, weekend, or on a holiday. This is not in Ukrainian legislation right now, and this is a serious gap. Another problem. In case the protector comes and his client is told that his client refuses to meet him, he needs to see him personally, and the one in sight has to tell him. Not like now, they're showing some kind of written document, and then it turns out that the client didn't know about it in a dream or in a spirit, or he got kicked out, you know, in some kind of not entirely legal way from the client. Third thing that's very important. A lawyer is a legal defender, he should know every time a person is transferred to any other place within 24 hours than he has previously held. It's very important. And the last. The legal counsel and counsel must meet with their client completely confidentially, without audio, video or any other fixation, or with the participation of any other person restricting glass, etc. I think it's a big breakthrough and a big step forward in adapting Ukrainian legislation to European legislation. Of course, there are certain things that can be improved. There is no limit to improvement. But we have to admit that we can't afford it. You should, obviously.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u78	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u79	In an accelerated mode, for the second reading, try to accept this bill. And our faction will definitely support it in both the first and the second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all of them. No, not all of them. I see, Mikhail Mikhailovich, a minute. Dear colleagues! Please prepare for the vote. One last speech and we're going to vote for the bill. Tsimbaluk Mikhailovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u81	Thank you. Mikhailo Cimbaluk, The All-Ukrainian Motherland Union. Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to express my gratitude to you that this bill is in the session room today. Not only does he have lawyers waiting for him, he is expected by people who have already encountered him or who may potentially encounter our law enforcement system. We do have cases where lawyers, defenders, and even family members don't know where the person is for weeks. This bill is purely technical. But it is so important that it installs our Ukrainian judiciary and our criminal process into European standards. I want to thank Sergei Vlasenko, the author of this law, and I am sure that he will become the law, as a person who has passed both as a lawyer and as a lawyer, and I have experienced in myself all this possible pressure from the authorities of the state, of justice. We will vote in favour of this bill and ask our colleagues to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all those who wish to speak. Please prepare for the vote. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure that the person entitled to protection is protected (registration No. 2063). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:26:30.]] For 332 Decision taken. The bill was adopted in the first reading as a basis. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 216, "Response Platform for Life" – 22, "European Solidarity" – 20, "Fatherhood" – 20, "For the Future" – 18, "Voice" – 14, "non-factional" – 22. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure personal voting by the Ukrainian National Deputies (registration No. 2148). A very important bill. I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. If there is no objection, please support and vote. [[11:27:37]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich. [[Applause]] Our respectable noun.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to address you here today, not as today's representative of the President, as the author of the bill. This is the first and so important bill that I think is related to the promises of everyone, x came to this room. We know very well that the buttoning metastases, they were extremely common in previous calls of the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, we have not been able to maintain our hygiene in this matter and in this condition. And we are deeply convinced that, of course, criminal responsibility has never been a panacea of crime, but the equal presence of crime is an important factor that will deter everyone from voting in a frenzy for another. Therefore, fellow Members, I request your attention, please note that today the Constitution of Ukraine in article 84 provides for the duty of each national MP to vote for himself. 81 articles in which we voted first. They initiated changes and sent them to the Constitution of Ukraine, and at best they will be adopted in February of the following year. And there we predicted that the buttoning and non-visiting and non-voting in the Supreme Council were absolute grounds for the mandate of a deputy. There are no legal mechanisms for today to hold someone who has pressed a button for someone else to account for their mandate. It is this mechanism of criminal responsibility that falls exactly under article 81, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of Ukraine as an act of accusation that has come into force legally. That's why I'm addressing you, until we get a legitimate way in the Constitution of Ukraine to remove the mandate, to support this bill today, and I'm very much asking you to vote, because people who have other values should be held accountable. We are gathered here to represent the will of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u84	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u85	And take personal responsibility for that. I honestly believe I've never speculated on this, but I sincerely believe that on this day you will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the Head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u87	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Law Protection considered at its meeting on 9 October 2019 a bill of 2148 amending certain legislative acts to ensure personal voting by the Ukrainian people's deputies. And he supported this bill, and he recommends it. endorsed the conclusion of recommending it to the Supreme Council as a basis. It is indeed complex, it regulates the issue and implementation of criminal responsibility, and changes to the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, and changes to the Rules in the procedure for bringing the criminal responsibility of the People's Deputy. So by adopting this bill as a basis, and then, hopefully, I believe, in general, I think we will put an end to this disgraceful phenomenon in the Ukrainian Parliament. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u88	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u89	Jan Zinkevich, "European Solidarity." Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u90	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, on what are European parliaments built, on which is Congress, the Senate of the United States, the Parliaments of Canada, other civilized countries to which we are going, implementing our legislation to European standards? On morals, on dignity, on a high political culture, and on political responsibility. And these are qualities that can't be settled by any law. They should really be an idea, an ideology of politics and a political party. That is what is missing in today’s parliament. You know, Maria Ionova and I, together with Valentin Navejchenk, have been for over 50 days, it seems to me that we have been blocking Parliament's rostrum when three MPs were running here, voting for 250, imitating most of them, to put an end to the buttonage. And in order for a politician not to push, laws, internal political culture, and responsibility are not important. And we fully share the idea that it's the electorate that they have to evaluate one political party or another as politicians do their electoral promises. What troubles our political power? That in today’s parliament, where, indeed, honor, dignity came from, the very idea of what politics is. Deputies are brought here to the role of buttons. If you push a button on time, you're good, you're good, you're a good MP, you don't matter your position, it doesn't matter your policy, it doesn't matter whether you read books, it doesn't matter whether you write laws or if you steal them, it doesn't matter if you're talking to voters, it's about pushing buttons. And it actually destroys the spirit of both parliament and parliamentaryism. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u92	Thank you. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u93	Please pass the word to Andrew Osadchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u94	Andrew Osadchuk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, buttoning is certainly a horrendous phenomenon that has ruined the reputation of this legislature in the eyes of Ukrainians and, in fact, was one of the premeditations of the total relaunch of political elites in this country. We have to fight this, we have to put an end to this. On the other hand, by introducing new norms and novelties in criminal law for committing crimes, the State must make sure that it has done everything in its power to prevent these crimes. We've talked about this a few times and we insist that we put in a sensor button right away. There's no problem with that. We discussed this with a respected reporter, Ruslan Stefanchuk, on the committee. I don't know who told him the story of chewing gum, but the Council-4 system works beautifully and fully guarantees the individual vote of MPs. I'm just saying this from my own experience. So we call for a sensory button in this room as soon as possible and perhaps as a temporary step in the first reading to support the bill that is now being proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u96	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u97	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. With all due respect to our current nominee, the author of the law that is now being presented, our faction, unfortunately, the deputies of our faction have observed this disgraceful phenomenon in the previous parliament. Regrettably, voting for another national MP was not only systematic but also effective. And in many cases, it was the vote "for that guy" that determined that the voted law of Ukraine. In my previous calling, Vadim Rabinovich was offered laws on criminal responsibility, which resulted in his being deprived of the will to commit such a crime. My offer is up to two years. The "ministers of the people" are more kind and offer appropriate fines and criminal liability. The hall will be identified today. But what we're going to do is we're going to put a dot on this issue, at least by adopting the law in the first reading, it's going to be a decisive step towards having the MPs actually vote for themselves. While preparing for the second reading, I would still suggest that I assume administrative responsibility for making a mistake that a deputy could make without motivation. Unfortunately, such examples are, too, so when I speak for severe punishment, I still propose to consider the human factor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u98	Thank you. Yvchenko. Alona Ivanovna Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u99	Good afternoon! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, you know, I do believe, and I have great hope that Parliament will end this calling forever with cannabis. But unfortunately for me, it's not because of this bill, it's because of simple, low-cost automated solutions, such as the inclusion of a sensor button or the introduction of a "Council" system that is already in danger of buttoning, for example, in the Kiev City Council. Why don't I think this bill will do it? Because, colleagues, let's work this out. This bill proposes to criminalize buttoning as a fine of about 51,000 dollars, and it tells us how to do so. First, we're going to have to determine the fact that this Council is buttoning up, then we're going to have to provide the Supreme Council with video fixation of all the buttoning facts. How to do it, how to do it, how to do it, how to do it, is not clear. Then you have to remove this person's card, which is not there today, which is also difficult to do. Then the MP who votes has to figure out again who's going to knock on the floor. The meeting is now adjourned. A re-voting is next. There's still a transcript, a video fixation, and a crime statement for the D.B.I. Lawyers, prosecutors, appeals, appeals, a pile of budget spending, a bunch of procedures that, unfortunately, will never come to an end. So, colleagues, we tend to be in favor of this law and we support it. But in fact, "Paternity" systematically advocates automation, simple and cheap, the main thing for taxpayers of decision-making, which will not allow physically simply to knock on both of us with you and any of the next parliament. With all due respect to the noun, one day Mr. Stefanchuk said that he spent more than 500,000 dollars on a bill. Colleagues, for 500,000 dollars, we could automate the "Council" system and make it impossible to get buttonage. Let us consider real decisions rather than make such bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u100	Thank you. From Batenko's motives, and then we go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u101	Colleagues, we also join in the warm greetings that are being heard today by the author of Mr. Ruslan Stefanchuk's bill. But, at the same time, we have some warnings and above all, that we agree with the disgraceful norm of buttoning that has taken place in all parliaments and, in particular, in this House. But why should such a rule be overly criminalized rather than put it into an administrative regime? But we know that today's Supreme Council of Ukraine is calling for the criminal responsibility of MPs, and that's the norm that's been in effect since the 1st. canceled on January 1. So let's at least survive this standard. And besides, the editorial doesn't answer whether the criminal responsibility will be for the nard that votes and whether it's for the one they vote for. So there are a number of inaccuracies that obviously need to be considered in the revisions to the second reading. Our MP group will be supported on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on personal voting by the Ukrainian National Deputies (Registration No. 2148). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:41:57]] For 287 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been asked to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Code (for the criminal responsibility of Ukrainian national deputies for non-personal voting) (1127). Ruslan Alexiyovich, you have a holiday, but not so much. 1127. Dear colleagues, please take a look at this. I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[11:42:50]] For 253 Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Shufritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u103	You're the presiding officer! Dear colleagues! I expected that the drafts dealing with this particular issue would be regarded as alternatives to the bill that I am now proposing, because they relate to one of the responsibilities of the so-called buttoning, which we call "vote for another Ukrainian national deputy." Of course, we could say that the very fact that the vote for another Ukrainian national deputy is already a crime is an abuse of power and official power. But given that there has always been law enforcement in society. representatives of the law enforcement agencies, the discussion that this should be a separate punishment, in the last summons, and it was, as I have already said, that I, and my colleague, Vadim Rabinović, have initiated a law on the very criminal responsibility that results in the deprivation of the will. On the other hand, I've already said this in my previous speech, perhaps in the preparation of this or the previous bill, we have to study and make a decision on the possible circumstances of being drawn to administrative responsibility if it is found that, indeed, the human factor worked and the corresponding vote did not affect the result of the vote. On the other hand, I think that this is the punishment that was proposed in the first law, which is very soft, and taking away the will is exactly the right response to commit such a crime. I want to fulfill my commitment on August 29 of this year at the time of the appointment of the Attorney General. Mr. Ruslan, I would like to refer to you and remind you that today Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko is a national deputy in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the Head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Law Protection has considered draft Act No. 1127 amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (on the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian National Deputies for unusual voting). The committee in its decision had actually concluded to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill should be rejected, taking into account that the committee had also met, and that it had just been voted upon by the Chamber by another bill, 2148, amending certain legislative acts to ensure the personal voting of the people's deputies. But with regard to the introduction, in addition to this, of administrative responsibility, I would like to point out the logic of this bill. It is the judgment of the court as a result of criminal conduct that is the reason for the loss of the mandate of the national MP. And I understand that, and the author of the previous bill, and the author of this bill, were considered to be appropriate and to be criminally liable with a fine in the form of a prior form, or to be deprived of the will in this bill. But the main thing is the loss of a parliamentary mandate as a person who has no right to be in the hall and to work and represent the Ukrainian people. So I think that by adopting this or another bill and by redrafting Bill 2148 for the second reading, we're going to take the proper response of Parliament to this behavior in the Supreme Council of previous calls. The committee therefore proposes to reject the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u106	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Request to sign up: two in, two in the opposite, on the side of the faction. Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! "European Solidarity" is not tired of repeating that Parliament's success will be when we adopt the rules of the European Parliaments. And we're actually very concerned about this chaotic change in the Rules over the last two months. In fact, we have to accept two key things that somehow are not carried by the majority to the agenda. The first is the mandatory, mandatory expertise on all legislative acts that Parliament is considering to comply with European legislation. And the second is the input of a sensory button. It'll be cheaper. This will be more effective. This is going to fit the dijitalization. This will enhance respect for the national deputies of Ukraine. That's the right thing to do. And actually, this whole mess -- let's arrest MPs, shoot MPs, there's something else with them -- I wasn't threatening anyone right now, it was figurative, this whole mess, it's wrong from the point of view of the deformity of the MP's status, the status of parliament. Because once again, I have to stress: politics is a high responsibility, it cannot be brought to the legislative regulation alone. This should be a conscious position of every politician for visiting all the meetings, not just the sessions, but the committee work, for working in the district, for working on the bills himself, not stealing them. In fact, when we have such a high political consciousness, these bills that we're currently spending our time on, they're going to be retrograde, they won't be necessary. And I'm just sad that we're wasting our time on things that aren't absolutely necessary to raise an MP out of a human being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u108	Thank you. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u109	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We have already voted in this room a bill in the first reading concerning the provision of personal voting and the introduction of criminal responsibility if a person, a Ukrainian national deputy does not vote for himself or votes several times, multiple votes. And, of course, the question of when there are non-personal voting in Parliament is not only a disgrace to Parliament, it not only undermines confidence in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but, above all, it questions the law adopted by Parliament. Because a law that is adopted with a breach of procedure can be declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. And we have these precedents, we have these examples. And I would like to remind you that the sad, notorious law of Koleschenka-Kivalova, which, in fact, destroyed the Ukrainian language, was this very law that was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court because of the fact that there was a non-personal vote at the time of its adoption. That's why the "Fatherland" faction certainly supported the previous bill. This bill is mostly about the same issue. Therefore, Bill 2148 needs to be redrafted before the second reading. But I would like to point out that the issue of criminal responsibility for non-personal voting automatically entails political responsibility. After all, the national MP, who will be held criminally responsible for nonpersonal voting, will be removed from office on this basis. So I think it's the right logic, and criminal responsibility will also lead to political responsibility. And such facts as nonpersonal voting must be eliminated from the session room and passed laws that will truly serve the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u110	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, all those who wish to speak. We will now proceed to the vote. Respectful colleagues, on the basis that a bill related to the same issue had just been passed, the committee’s position was to reject Bill No. 1127. I am voting on the issue of rejection, on the decision to reject the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (on the criminal responsibility of Ukrainian national deputies for unusual voting) (registration No. 1127). Please identify and vote. What? Wait. Turn the Shufrich microphone on with your motives. All those who wished to speak, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u111	I would like to point out once again, Mr. President, that attracting criminal responsibility and entering into force of the court's decision to bring criminal responsibility is an automatic basis for depriving the Ukrainian national deputy of office. But, Mr. Chairman, I have a question. Did you ask the question of supporting the rejection or voting in favour of the law, "yes" or "against"?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u112	Nestor Ivanovich, the committee proposes to reject this bill. I understand that you mean that we should put it on the ground, but I'm noting that the committee is proposing to reject this bill. Is that all right, Nestor Ivanovich? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (on the criminal responsibility of Ukrainian national deputies for non-personal voting) (registration No. 1127). Please identify and vote. [[11:54:15]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 7, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 21, "Fathership" – 1, "For the Future" – 4, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 12. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order. Yes, Irina Volodymyr. About what, Irina Volodymyrna? It's a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, we have seen today that our colleague, Mrs. Jan Zinkevich, has spoken several times, and we see that, unfortunately, she has only the opportunity to approach the session hall from her place of work. Unfortunately, our rostrum is not equipped, and it is not available to speak from the rostrum. We once witnessed at the UN General Assembly, where the president of another country spoke with limited means, in a wheelchair, during his speech, so that he could approach his colleagues in the same way from the rostrum. We have an offer from our faction. Dear colleagues, let's give the secretariat an order to have an appropriate rostrum that we could put on during Jana's speech so that she could have access to the rostrum, and in doing so we have shown an example of how the Parliament of Ukraine as a whole on the importance of respect for people with special needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u114	Irina Volodymyrna, the issues of inclusion are now being dealt with, and there was such an assignment. Sadly, it does not happen quickly. And the question is not just in the rostrum. Even a few minutes ago, we were talking to the People's Deputy Long, Helen Constantine Condratuk on this issue. There are budgetary issues, there are organizational issues, the Supreme Council deals with them. The Supreme Council’s apparatus similarly deals with these issues. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I give my word to Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u115	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have four minutes before our break. I just want to make some announcements. First came a statement from the Urban People's Deputy that he was coming out of the Cuban Interfractional Union. [[Applause]] The other one. There is, of course, a proposal for the head to put it to the vote. But it's a joke. Dear colleagues, the creation of an interfractional association called the Righteous and Anti-Corruption Coalition. The headquarters of this union are the national deputies of Ukraine, Tishchenko Mikolaiovich and Grishina Julius Mikolayovna. Next. Creation of an interfractional MP association "For the development of local self-government reform and the decentralization of power". The national deputy Trebushkin Ruslan Valeriyovich was elected head of the association. Creation of an interfractional association called “Kywiska. ” The National Deputy of Vasilevsk-Smagluk Olga Mikhaylovna was elected head of this association. And the last interfractional merger for today is the interfractional merger of Free Markiv. The national deputy, Černjev Jegor Volodymirovich, was elected head of this association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u116	Thank you, Your Honor. We have two minutes until recess. I suggest we start the break from 12 to 12:30, and please don't be late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's get to work. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We already have a good enough tradition of welcoming our guests, young guests, in this room. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Let's work. Dear colleagues, you have a proposal for a bill amending the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act on qualification requirements for candidates for the post of Attorney General (Registration No. 1144) and an alternative 1144-1. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:44:36]] For 184 184. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Dmitry Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich! The purpose of the bill was to establish qualifications for the Attorney General, namely for the Attorney General to have a higher legal education and legal training. Because of what's given. You, the Supreme Council, have already taken a decision and settled this issue, 10.10 I have rejected this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u119	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the national deputy Shkrum Aloni Ivanovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u120	Thank you. Good afternoon, once again, dear colleagues! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. The bill returned the legal education requirement to the Attorney General. Let me tell you and the Ukrainians a little bit about the history of this bill, and how it happened that we had this requirement gone. In fact, three years ago: on May 11, 2016, a bill was registered with the Council of the previous call, which deprived the Attorney General of the need to be a lawyer and have a legal education. On May 12, a day later, at 9: 00 a.m., the bill appeared. His text appeared in Parliament, and in two hours he was voted in this Parliament. Two more hours later, at 15 hours, signed by the President in Parliament, an hour later published in the Voice of Ukraine, he went into effect. At 6 p.m. again in the previous parliament, the Attorney General was appointed on the same day without legal education under the bill. So, colleagues, it was, in fact, the one that was worrying, which, believe me, did not dream of this convening of parliament and which, I hope, forever went into history and remained in the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism, which we will never see again. So it happened that until my bill and my colleague Sphenov's bill were considered, another law on the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office had been passed, in which the requirement of legal education, thanks to God, was returned. So, really, this bill has lost its relevance today, and I'm calling it off. But I want to take this opportunity to tell you that we're waiting for today not only do we have the Attorney General's legal education, and that's good, but we're looking forward to reforming the Attorney General's Office. And believe me, Ukrainians are looking forward to a real reform of the Attorney General's Office that can't happen. It's just that people are getting laid off and prosecutors are getting fired. The real reform is reform, when the Attorney General's Office works effectively, will be independent of politics and from any corruption, and will finally protect Ukrainian citizens. Here's to this reform from "Serve of the People," from the Attorney General and from the authorities we and all citizens expect today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Questions. Head of the Committee on the Law Protection of the Nekludov Vladen Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, we already have this tradition, the neighboring faction has started a tradition of making books to develop its business, moral, and professional qualities. I also thought it would be appropriate for me to give the appropriate book to my colleagues, especially Mrs. Fedini. But which, I thought. At first, I thought I should give Carnegie the book. But then I thought she wouldn't answer, she wouldn't be able to implement the preventive function of law. And so I'm going to think that the best book for Mrs. Fedina would be to give her the Criminal Code of Ukraine. This book is, I think it's both meaningful and relevant and relevant. And I will present this book, accompanied by a quote from the famous classic Vladimir Seminovich. I apologize, I quote in the author's language, "We don't need stories and intrigues: about all of us we know you won't give us. For example, in the light of the best book, I consider the criminal code ours. And if I don't sleep, or if I don't sleep, or if I don't have a face on me, I'm going to open a code on every page, and I can't read it to the end." I'll give it to you. Read it, please. I think it'll be quite useful. With regard to Bills 1144, 1144-1, as the colleague has already spoken, both Spenov and Alona Shkrum. These are, indeed, rightly proposed bills, and they are designed to strengthen demands on a person who claims to take office as Attorney General in order to guarantee a proper qualification level for the future head of the public prosecutor's system. Considering that we have adopted Act 1032 amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the first priority measures for the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office, in particular in paragraph 1 of part three of article 40, where it has already been stipulated that a citizen of Ukraine, who has a higher legal education and employment, may be appointed to the post of Attorney-General.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u123	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u124	Yes, the committee recommends that the Committee on Law Enforcement recommends to the Supreme Council the draft laws of Ukraine under registration number 1144, 1144-1 to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u125	Thank you. But, Vladlen Mikhailovich, I do have a request when you speak from the committee on the subject next time. Thank you. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Was there a mention of a last name? Did you get a last name? Yeah. Sophia Romanovna Fedina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u126	Thank you guys for the gift. I also wish him well to study this Criminal Code as well as all Ukrainians. Because right now we have a situation that I want to inform all of the Ukrainians. The Golden Army had just begun to be distributed. And for the moment, there are no guarantees for those who remain there in the Golden Land who supported Ukraine. The Ukrainians had just begun essentially cleaning up in those areas. And I want to thank you all for lying so beautifully under Putin's feet. Dear Society, if you cared more about Ukraine, you should address all the hot words you are addressing to the main enemy of the Ukrainian State. Too bad you don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, against, for the factions. Mikita Ruslanovich Poturayev, "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! Everyone is well aware of the great efforts of the President, the Ukrainian military, the Ukrainian diplomacy, at last, the peace and quiet of the Lugansk Stanica. What are we seeing now? Attempting to demolish a descaled area in the Golden region. Strangely, such efforts are seen both by separatists, terrorists, Russian mercenaries, and by people who call themselves patriots of Ukraine, not now referring to any particular name, so that there is no desire to go out again and accuse people who courageously carry out their duties, including military, in violation of an oath, of violating the loyalty of the Ukrainian people. In areas where it is difficult to deploy and deploy forces, law enforcement and law enforcement will be carried out by the National Police. There is no doubt that our police officers will do their work just as conscientiously as they do in the Luhansk Stanica. I demand, and I hope that my faction colleagues will support me, stop provoking the war, finally start working to win Ukraine, but not at the cost of the daily sacrifices of our best fighters. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u129	Thank you, Nikita Ruslanovich, but. [[Applause]] By Nikita Ruslanovich. This is your colleague, yes, Chevchenko. But, colleagues, I'm still talking to everyone to move on the rules, to move on the subject of the bills that we're discussing. I'm not stopping the speech because there's no image here, but the request is still, I've been addressing both Nekludov and other colleagues, moving on the subject of a bill that's now being discussed in the hall. Thank you. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u130	Dear Sir, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians above all! Dear our military, venerable veterans, our volunteers! You know, I'd like to ask you a question, you know, a faction of which I just spoke. How many shots were fired yesterday on the front line? 16, well, you know. And then you start to retreat. You know when they talk about retreat when they're 30. [[B in m in s a l in]] At the beginning of the retreat, 30 settlements where there is a pro-Ukrainian population are left without the help of the Ukrainian army. Ladies and gentlemen, more often visit the front line, then you will understand why the army is a protection. And retreat, and homage to volunteers and military. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the denial now declared by the actual authority of the PPP, namely the refusal of NATO, and all that is going on today with the funding programs for our missile development, that is, stopping them, and you're wondering, is part of the capitulation that we want to be drawn to peace. Therefore, honourable colleagues, retreats, denial of VAT, cessation of military arms -- these are things the Ukrainian people will not forgive you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u131	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, let us not engage in manipulation. The cease-fire of the army, is that where, in what state? And another question. I am. Arthur Volodymyrovich, just returned from a committee that actually worked on the line of separation. I would like to thank all the members of the committee who were there. [[Applause]] Thank you. I would like to remind you that members of Parliament regularly visit, unfortunately, the front line and not just the front line. Today is a forum in Mariupola that will allow, I hope, soon, to begin real economic transformations in areas that are in direct proximity to the front line. So let's not upset society and let's work as a parliament. Thank you. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u132	Now let's go back to Bills 1144 and 1144-1, including Mr. Speaker. Colleagues, I would like to support the drafters of the bill and the committee and reject these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, have you all spoken? They're all here. I mean. All those who wanted to speak. [[B in m in s a l in]] By law. With motive? Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. And, dear fellows, after the speech, Sergey Volodymyrovich will proceed to the vote. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u134	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Of course, we also need to approach the Attorney General, all the authorities in the field of expertise, on the understanding that each supervisor should work with some experience. And there are prosecutors in the sheep’s skin who are perverts. There's this Lugansk area where, three years ago, the prosecutor of the Securounetic so-called Grigorov, I want to refer to it as the Attorney General of Rybosapka, and he didn't let it go to the government at all today, and he's investigating all the crimes he's committed, and today he's covering up the murder of Sergey Samarsky, covering up the smuggling, covering up the drug trafficking in Lugansk region today. Remember each parliamentarian’s name and do not allow such combatants to be run by the prosecutor’s office. Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. There is a committee position to reject both Bill 1144 and Bill 1144-1. The same position was shared by many national deputies who spoke from this rostrum. That's why I think it will be. One, one. But a representative, actually. I can't appreciate it, unfortunately, or luckily. I think all the national MPs have to be effective at any faction. Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I propose that the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Procurator's Act on Qualifying Requirements for Candidates as Attorney General be rejected. We're voting first. Registration number 1144. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. Deviation. [[13:01:15]] For 297 For -278. Decision taken. The bill was rejected. Sorry, 297. Decision taken. The bill was rejected. I am voting on the rejection of the draft Act amending the Procuratorial Act on Qualifying requirements for candidates for the post of Attorney General, alternative (Registration No. 1144/1). Please support and vote. [[13:01:55]] For 289 Decision taken. The bill is rejected. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there has been a call from two factions, the Voice and the Fatherland, replacing the break for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u136	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I thank you so much for being able to speak. I want to say that Ukraine today is on the verge of a possible epidemic, the worst disease known as diphtheria. We have just been informed that 14 cases of diphtheria have been confirmed in students at U.S. University. That's a very large number, because this year we have 20 cases. The past epidemic of diphtheria has left 700 people dead in Ukraine, 20,000 sick. It's a very scary disease that causes death. One of the sick is a boy who is 9 years old. He was not vaccinated because his mother refused vaccination. I would like to say that vaccination is the only way to prevent diphtheria from being infected. I personally went to a family doctor yesterday and was vaccinated. I know that the head of the Supreme Council, as well as many politicians, are now coming and being vaccinated by diphtheria. But, colleagues, that's not enough. We have to make a powerful information campaign to get the Ukrainians to go on vaccination. Today, 30 percent of children and 50 percent of adults are not vaccinated with diphtheria. Every 10 years adults have to be vaccinated. So today, with the Voice faction, we are addressing the President of Ukraine in order to hold a special meeting of the National Security and Defence Council and to consider the possible outbreak of diphtheria in Ukraine and prevent this outbreak. Please, let's not all let this happen together when in the '90s 20,000 people just got sick with this deadly disease. That's why we're sending a proper address to Vladimir Zelensky today from the Voice faction. Please join all of us in the fight to ensure that the Ukrainians do not have this terrible outbreak in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u137	Thank you, Olga Anatolyevna. I think that's really a good point. Because if I'm not mistaken, yesterday alone in Kiev was four cases of illness. And I urge both national MPs and our respected citizens to take more care of their health, the health of those around them. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You will have before you the proposed draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Establishment of Responsibility for Violations of Children's Transfer Rules. I would like to consider the above-mentioned bill in summary procedure. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:05:45]] For 235 Decision taken. For the report, as you have seen, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitry Yuriovich, is given.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u138	Honourable electors, honourable fellow national MPs, the bill aimed at ensuring the proper safety of the transport of children through the establishment of administrative responsibility for violations of the rules on the carriage of children. These rules are laid down in the Road Traffic Rules back in 1993. Sadly, though, few do. Lack of responsibility creates conditions for an unjustified view of the safety of our children. For example, according to the World Health Organization, the use of children’s car seats reduces the risk of injuries in accidents by 70 percent and the death rate by 54 percent. In view of the importance of this issue, the project proposes to impose a fine for violating the 510 - dollar children’s transfer rules for reoffending — 850 dollars. So thank you to the committee and to the scientific and scientific department for supporting the bill. I ask you, colleagues, to support the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u139	Thank you, Dmitri Juryovich. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the head of the committee’s committee on law enforcement work, Medjanik Vijacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u140	The Committee of the Supreme Council on Law Enforcement at its meeting considered a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the establishment of responsibility for violations of the rules on the carriage of children (Registration No. 1150). To this end, it is proposed that article 121 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in Part Ten and Eleven, which establishes administrative responsibility in the form of a fine of 30 non-taxable minimum income for citizens for violating the rules on the carriage of children and 50 non-taxable minimum incomes of citizens for committing such an offence again during the year. In view of the above, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the first reading as a basis. It can also be based on one technical law, since article 121 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in its structure contains ten parts, the tenth part of which is, in fact, a footnote to this article. The bill proposes that the article be completed in parts ten and eleven. However, it is wise to point out that a part of the tenth part of article 121 of this article should be considered part of this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, two against, from factions. Royal Natalia Yuriovna, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, we support the Dmitry Sphenov bill. It's an important, up-to-date bill. But we want to stress that today the issue of child protection in our country needs to be considered strategically and made today decisions that will really allow the country to come out of the terrible demographic crisis that we're in. I want to remind you that those of us who have been in power for five years have done everything they can to shorten programs to protect childhood and motherhood. They were collecting the last bits of help in a family-type children's home, in orphans, they took away the payments of single mothers, they took away the payments of children under 3 years of age, they froze the subsistence minimum -- that's the main basis for calculating all the social guarantees for families that need special attention from the state. And that's why the Opposition Platform for Life prepared and registered Bill 2085. This bill has been drafted with the Ukrainian Mothers’ Council, along with many women’s organizations that have united their efforts to give Parliament a road map, as the country today needs to get out of the demographic crisis. And we ask you, Mr. Speaker, honourable MPs, to consider Bill 2085, which would allow the country today to take a step towards young families, to protect children today, to review the level of social protection, and the most important issue is to consider the protection of children who live in war every day and who today need special attention from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u143	Thank you. Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u144	Yes, please tell Lesi Vasilko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u145	Lescia Vasilko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u146	Good afternoon! This is certainly an important bill. And I want to say as a mother, as a mother of two, that there is a need in the country to look at the child protection approach at all, and to reinforce the standards that would contribute to a more conscious attitude towards their status. And accordingly, a basis for social consciousness needs to be formed, and this is the first step that the bill takes. But the number of parents who carry their children completely unconsciously on their knees is, in some ways, incomprehensible as untapped, leading to an increase in car accidents every year. And the large number of people who suffer from this and the loss of their lives are among the population that has not reached adulthood, just among the children. That's why the Voice faction supports this bill and we're going to join in working on it for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u147	Thank you, Lesa Volodymyr. The word is given to the Princess Nikola Leonidovich, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u148	Dear friends, well, briefly, today 30 years ago, as the Language Law in Ukraine began to take effect, and Ukrainian language became national. So I would like to remind you once again of the need for the appointment of an authorized language. Now it's about the substance of the bill. It's really an important bill, because you understand perfectly, this is where the colleague said that she was talking about having two children, and I'll tell you, like a father, three children. A person who drives a child is responsible not only for his life but also for the life of a child who cannot be held responsible for himself. The fines that are offered are pretty low fines actually because 540 there or 508 dollars and again 850 dollars are fines that are small. Because when we look at what's going on in other countries, the smallest tariffs are in Poland, Great Britain, Georgia, and Austria, the minimum fine is 40 euros, in Cyprus is 85, France is 135, Slovenia is 200, Greece is 350, Estonia is 400 euros. So obviously in support of this bill, we would suggest, if there was a second reading, that these amounts of fines should be increased to 60 non-taxable minimums for violations and 80 untaxed minimums of citizens' income for repeated violations. In general, we support this bill and the idea of taking care of others, taking care of ourselves on the road, and of course of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u149	Thank you. Tsymbaluk. Sergey Vladislavovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, our faction will no doubt support this bill, but we wanted to take into account a few fundamental points. What happens if Mom and the baby are in a taxi? Who is responsible for setting up the baby chair? What's going on, and it's settled in a number of countries that are responsible for this, and we need to understand who's going to carry this load on. So we would like this to be settled for the second reading because it is not possible to impose responsibility solely for people who use private transport rather than public transport or taxis. I can't help but make my warning about the subject from which we took a break with the Voice faction. Undoubtedly, in support of a failed example of how vaccinations against diphtheria and other horrifying diseases should not be organized, the profile committee wanted to examine what money and how foreign vaccines were purchased; which vaccines are Indian or American; how the money was used; why there are no appropriate vaccines and medicines to treat today. I think that's going to be the answer, and our challenge is not just the diphtheria situation, but the willingness of the country to face any challenges in such terrible things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think all the speakers have spoken, so please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the issue of adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the establishment of responsibility for violations of the rules on the carriage of children (Registration No. 1150). Please prepare for the vote again. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:17:31]] For 323 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. The committee's position was to accept as a basis. There is an offer to accept in general. Oh, no? What Will Be the Thoughts? In general, are we ready to vote? Then let the committee report, because there is now a position to accept as a basis. Med, you have your word. Please come to the microphone. Come on, the committee head can make a statement. From the rostrum. From the rostrum, Denis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u152	The committee believes that it can be accepted in a second reading with technical legal work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support the committee's position and to vote in favour of this bill as a whole. Ready to vote? Okay. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account technical legal rights, of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the establishment of responsibility for the violation of the rules on the carriage of children (registration number.) With technical law, yes, registration number 1150. Please support and vote. [[13:19:32]] For 332 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. People's Servant – 229, Opposition Platform – Life 15, European Solidarity – 20, Parenthood – 17, Future – 13, Voice – 16, Non-faction – 22. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider a draft Act amending article 66 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (registration of the right of witness to legal aid in criminal proceedings) (registration No. 1164). There is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:20:32]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Dmitry Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u154	I want to start by saying that our personal responsibility as members of the Supreme Council is to create equal legal protection for all members of the Ukrainian society, including ensuring the necessary level of protection of their rights and legitimate interests in the criminal process. The current Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine considerably narrows the legal status of the witness compared to other parties to the trial, such as the suspect and accused. An active relationship between the rights and duties of a witness does not allow them to actively defend their rights and results in abuse by investigators and prosecutors of their powers. According to practice, the witness is a potential suspect. Yes, the procedural status of the witness primarily requires that it receive an adequate level of legal aid, as provided for in article 59 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The problem is that a witness, although entitled to legal aid by a lawyer, still has rights and responsibilities, the procedure for involving such a lawyer is not defined in the CPC at all. By the way, imagine that the Criminal Procedural Code of the 1960s was better protected by a witness than by an active one because it contained such positions. But we have what we have. The draft law therefore proposes to extend the legal capacity of the witness in criminal proceedings and to determine that the lawyer who provides legal aid to the witness has the same guarantees of activity and obligations as the witness in the criminal conduct he advocates. I believe that any comments from the committee can be removed to the second reading and I ask the room to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u155	Thank you. The word is given for a report to the head of the committee’s committee on law enforcement work, Yacik Yulia Grigorovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u156	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement considered a bill proposing amendments to article 66 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. The bill actually greatly expands the rights of a witness in the criminal proceedings in question. However, if I refer to the speech by Deputy Spenov Dmitry Yuriovich, who pointed out that the witness as a participant in criminal conduct has certain limitations, I would like to point out immediately that the witness is not a party to criminal conduct, but a participant, and therefore his rights and duties, as with other participants, are clearly regulated by the Criminal Procedure Code. The proposed changes are proposed to inform the witness of his rights and duties by clarifying such rights and obligations. However, existing standards, such as the articles of the Criminal Procedure Code, which define the requirements of the interrogation protocol and the instructions of the court’s business order, define the form of the witness’s rights and obligations under the order of the witness. Moreover, the right to legal assistance of a lawyer to the first requirement and to confidentiality of communication is not limited to that time. The call message is given to the witness three days before his call. And there are no precautions, so he's not limited to movement, movement, communication, or a designated lawyer to give him legal aid. The right to collect evidence to substantiate its evidence is not clear at all, since the legal status of such evidence is not understood in the bill, whether it is evidence of a charge or a defence, and that deprives the witness of informing the investigator about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u157	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u158	The existence of such evidence for the investigator to determine the source and legitimately obtain such evidence, the use of technical means, and so forth. And what.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u159	Ten seconds. But please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u160	Moreover, the granting of the right to defend and comparing it to a suspect’s lawyer is contrary.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u161	Julia Grigorovna, I have a request for the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u162	It was decided that the bill should be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for two-for-two-against factions. Mustafa Jemiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u164	Please pass the word to Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u165	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u166	Thank you, Your Honor Mr. Jemiliev, Mr. Head. In fact, I think it's an opportunity for us to do a good thing again today, just like we did with the bill, when additional safeguards for persons convicted or accused were passed in the first reading of the bill. This is a bill that helps to further ensure the rights of witnesses in criminal proceedings. And that's very good. For example, I do not understand why the committee feels that being clear and timely about its rights, as the bill provides, for the witness and to get their clarification, is bad. Because 99 percent of witnesses, according to practice, are not aware of the rights that the CPC provides for witnesses, so is the truth. The argument against, as if there were no restrictions on the witness to meet both during and after the first interrogation with a lawyer, is an argument for those who are well aware of the criminal process. We have thousands of such people in the country, and millions of people who can be witnesses are not aware of these things. And it's written for them to understand their rights. Just as they have the right to free legal aid, they have the right to refuse such free legal aid, they have the right to have their interrogation fixed. Is it wrong that during questioning, a witness clearly identifies all the things that occur during questioning, and then, when he gives a witness in court, it can be used in favor of such a type of witness? Just as he's going to collect all this evidence for the benefit of his testimony, it's not evidence to the benefit of either the accused or the defense, it's about the fact that a person is provided with any, including the possibility of false testimony, etc. So I think this first-reading bill needs to be supported. The second reading is worth working on, taking into account the changes that we've made, because some of these changes that are already there, they've lost some of their relevance. But in the second reading, it will have to be accepted. Because it's a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u167	Thank you. The word is given by Sobolje's Sergey Vladislavovich. All those who wish to speak? Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, read this bill carefully. I think Mr. Sphenov, who reported it, didn't want to tell you the truth until the end. What is the truth? The truth is the following. Unfortunately, the law enforcement agencies abuse the term "witness." You come for questioning as a witness once, twice, and then in the course of another interrogation, you suddenly become accused. Now, I think the subject that Sphenov raised, I'm very grateful for it, is the continuation of the subject that Vlasenko raised. That is, to ensure that the right to a defence and the right to receive data are also protected by the right to use a lawyer as a witness. Because unfortunately, those abuses, and you can lead yourself out of your own life or the lives of your familiar dozens of cases where this abuse leads to terrible consequences. A person prepares to give a witness. Here he is charged as an accused person. It is to protect against such unkind law enforcement officials who abuse it and to propose the bill. Undoubtedly, there are some standards that still exist today. Yes, they can be removed. But the idea of the bill, in my opinion, deserves attention. And our faction recommends that we support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u169	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. The motive is Yatzik Yulia Grigorovna. And prepare for the vote. Let's go to the vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u170	First of all, I want to say that what's somewhat distorted is the explanation on the ground that the testimony can be used in the following as a basis for presenting a suspect report, because such demonstrations cannot be taken into account by the court. In addition, the need to collect evidence in support of the evidence is a norm that even a witness is warned of false evidence in advance. Moreover, the Free Legal Aid Act does not provide for legal aid from the State of the witness. Therefore, the bill does not propose a change to such a law. So from these circumstances, such a bill, at least it needs work, is at least. And there is no explanation for the need at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. I'm betting on a vote on the rejection of the draft Amendment Act. Look, we put the committee's proposal to the vote. The committee's position is to reject. This is provided for in the Rules. Ruslan Petrovich. Based on what? Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich is a minute of motivation. And please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u172	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, you know, shame must be uniform. I mean, if you didn't put it in the committee, but you chose what would be convenient for you to do it, yes, let's get to what to do with the Rules, and let's start with the committee's proposal, and then there's another question. But in the previous vote, you rejected the committee's proposal and put the vote to a vote in violation of the Rules, depending on your basic interests. Let's stick to the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u173	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, this was when we voted in favour of the Sufrich Nestor Ivanovich Bill, he asked us to do so. Past drafts, wait, last drafts we voted in the same paper that was proposed by the committee. We voted in favour of both 1144 and 1144-1. You can see it from the stenographer. That is why I am returning to vote on the motion to reject the draft Act amending article 66 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (Registration No. 1164). Please support and vote. [[13:33:50]] For 246 Decision taken. The bill is rejected. Thank you. Let's move on to the next one. Show the faction, please. "Serve of the People" – 229, "Resistance Platform for Life" – 1, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 0, "Voice" – 12, "non-factional" – 4. Thank you, the decision is made. Let's move on to the next one. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on improving hazardous waste management. — Registration No. 2066. I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:34:43]] For 246 Decision taken. The report is given by Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich, a national deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u174	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, man is the only creature on the planet that produces garbage. And it does so well, and on the other hand, it is thoughtless that she will soon drown herself in it. So this garbage, of course, can be processed, as is done in many countries. But for many, it's not a bad business. Experts estimate that the market for the processing and disposal of hazardous wastes in Ukraine is worth 10 billion dollars. Now for a second, think about it: The 2016 state of affairs was issued in Ukraine with 299 licenses, 299. How does this happen? The company submits directly, which decided to dispose of it, submits documents, and by law state institutions have no right to verify whether they have a material and technical basis or not. So here, colleagues, from September 2016 to January 1, 2017, as a result of testing only 74 companies, 45 were cancelled. And you know what happened? When we went to see how these 45 companies worked, there was no one else except the accountant, the chair, and the chair. So to whom do we trust directly to dispose of these dangerous wastes? And finally. Let me give you an example. At the European expense of Lviv, a state-owned company called the "Goddayka" was created through the utility. So the disposal, for example, of mercury lamps is 3.50, and the ProZorro tender wins the firm from Zaporozhye. Only the very cost of transporting these mercury lamps is December 1, 99. You understand that no one will transport them. What does that mean? That this disposal will take place in our woodsheds or somewhere else in the warehouses. That's why we're our law. Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u175	Give me 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u176	Thank you, thank you. That's why we, our law, colleagues, empower state institutions to properly perform our functions and not allow the operation of host entities without a proper material and technical basis. So our bill solves these questions. I don't understand why the committee is asking for a draft. But believe me, he's been suffering from a past vocation and he's worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u177	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use by Nesterenka Kirila Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u178	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use discussed at its meeting the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving the System of Management of Dangerous Wastes, submitted by our colleagues Ivchenk, Labunski, Kucherenk and Meidić, and decided to return it to work. The project proposes to amend Ukraine's Waste Act and "On the licensing of economic activities" with the aim of eliminating regulatory co-operations resulting from the adoption of Ukraine's Law on the licensing of economic activities, on the one hand, and special legislation on waste, on the other. In support of the authors' proposals to increase requirements for hazardous waste management operations, a number of comments were made to the bill requiring further development. Yes, the project has both internal disagreements and inadequacy and legislative acts. In spite of the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of activities of the economy, which provides that the economic activity is carried out on the basis of a licence issued in accordance with this bill, a list of specific requirements for obtaining such a licence is proposed in the Waste Act itself. The main scientific and expert office also makes a number of comments and suggests that the bill be returned to work. Please support the proposal of the Committee on Returns to the Reformation of the Bill on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on improving hazardous waste management, on redrafting the authors to eliminate disagreements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for factions: two in favour, two in favour. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u180	Please give the word to the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u181	Princey. I see. Princess Nikola Leonidovich, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, obviously, this is indeed an extremely important topic, because the idea of the bill is right, necessary and should be supported, because economic activity in the area of hazardous wastes itself is dangerous, and the State must pay increased attention to the entities involved in such activities and the belief that they have the necessary material and technical basis to guarantee safety in carrying out such activities for the lives and health of citizens and the environment. But in order for us to realize what we're voting for. Obviously, our policy should be in line with government policy. I see Mr. Rybchin is here. Mr. Ryabchin, I have a question for you. The environmental organizations with which "European Solidarity" is cooperating, when we examine these bills, have advised us that the other 2207 bill, which has been tabled in Parliament, is fundamental and can be adopted and then adopted by this bill. Or we can accept this bill in the first reading, and then we can apply it. And in order for our policy to really be consistent with government policy, it's important to us, personally for me to vote, that it's important to know your opinion, because these bills, you know, are basically about the same thing. Thank you. So if the Ministry recommends, we'll support this bill or we're ready to support Bill 2207, which environmental organizations believe should be fundamental. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u183	Thank you. The speech is given to Yvchenk Vadim Evgenovich. Labunsky Angela Victorian.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u184	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Labunsky, the Fatherland faction. I think we all face every day the problem that this bill has proposed. Well, let's face it. Many of us know that waste business today is one of the most corrupt businesses in the country. As far as I know, in previous periods, almost 2,000 of all licenses have been issued for waste work. Sadly, though, today, if only checks had begun, not one of the 30 checking companies had at all enough equipment to process these wastes, it did not have a chair and a chair at all. Regrettably, today’s legislation does not allow authorities today to check the availability of mandatory means to deal with hazardous wastes. I understand that I tried to convince my colleagues on the committee to adopt this law in the first reading. You know that we made a commitment by entering into. By signing a European treaty. We should have it by 2020. We made such commitments that we don't even have legislation today. I understand that we need to reconcile our position with the Cabinet of Ministers. But the law that is passed does not provide for the order of licensing. So we do propose that this law be adopted in a new reading. Perhaps it should be delayed and consulted with the Cabinet of Ministers, and still make much more difficult conditions, and allow the executive authorities today to check the necessary equipment to deal with waste. Dear, well, this is our future, this is our environment, this is the future of our children. So let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u185	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u186	And we're going to adopt this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u187	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Then we go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u188	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The issue of dealing with hazardous wastes is very important and relevant today. First of all, this question is certainly very important in terms of at least implementing those directives that are within the European Union in relation to the environment. We have a graph plan that was designed and defined in the 14th year. In line with this graphic plan, we need to implement and improve the environment, including in this direction. One second. With regard to hazardous waste management, we feel that the issue of waste hazard needs to be differentiated. These are low - safety, moderately dangerous, high - risk, and extremely dangerous. And thirdly, I would like to draw attention to what is extremely important, in addition to this direction, is the question of stimulating -- and this is an international experience -- fiscal stimulus just to solve this problem. So I want to tell the drafters that the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support your draft law in the first reading. We'll vote yes. But most importantly, after the first reading, it's going to have to be processed to take into account the comments that were made in our room today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare. With motive? Marikowski is motivated.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u190	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u191	Turn on the microphone, Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, our society has long grown up to order waste issues, especially hazardous wastes. We just went to a committee meeting in Curve Rose, where ArcelorMittal, an international company, when we asked what you were doing with the filters? They say we have a big car, we load the filter on the truck, and we take it to the range. These are hazardous wastes and cannot be arranged simply by taking them out into the range. But this question, this bill needs substantial work. Soon we will adopt a framework law and adopt dangerous wastes as a framework. By the end of the year, there will be legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u193	Thank you. The word is given to Rybčin Aleksija Mikhailovich, deputy minister. A moment of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u194	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! The position of the Ministry regarding the bill. The idea is very relevant, it needs to be settled. Unfortunately, the way it's being taught right now, it needs substantial work. We won't be able to throw this law out in case it's passed right now. All the materials we have, we offer to work with the authors. We're waiting for you at the Ministry, and we're going to show you how we can work out. Come on, he'll be accepted. About 2207. As far as I can tell, he'll only be on the committee tomorrow. Our position at the Ministry will be presented tomorrow, it is being studied. We invite all of you, if you have nice initiatives to the government, to profile ministers, ministers so that we don't waste time considering bills that won't be adopted, but rather spend time on bills that are worked out, agreed with the Ministry, meeting the goals of the government and working together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u195	Thank you. One minute of motive, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, and we go to the vote. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u196	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, a very important question raised by Vadim Yvchenko in this bill, must be supported. Because there are 36 billion tons of garbage to be processed in the country. There's a lot of corruption going on. Entrepreneurs of any business are also going crazy breaking the law. Of course, today our nation is experiencing an economic collapse, a technological collapse. Today I'm talking about Luhansk. See how many wastes are in the mines today, how many wastes are in the cities today, and how much is out of control. That is why this bill needs to be supported. And we're ready to vote together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u197	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the committee's proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative of the draft law. Bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving hazardous waste management (registration number 20) [[B in m in s a l in]] What do you mean? No, wait, I'm doing what the committee has to say. One position that can be treated according to the Rules is the return of the subject of the legislative initiative. That is what was approved by the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's all right. First, we vote on the proposal that came from the committee. About that. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we always voted on the proposal first that came from the committee. This, for example, was what our colleagues said, such as the People’s Deputy Papiew. That's why we're here. Colleagues, we put first that proposal that was approved by the committee. After that, if it's not supported, we can put other proposals to the vote. According to the Rules. If there's a wish, then I can show it in the Rules. Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to redraft a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving the system of handling hazardous wastes (registration number 2066). Please support and vote. [[13:51:30.]] For 245 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on State regulations in the area of laundromats (registration No. 1170). It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:52:06]] For 244 Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Spenov Dmitry Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, the project proposes to ban imports into Ukraine of detergents that do not meet European standards and phase out their production and distribution within our country. The adoption of the bill is very relevant. For example, in the Dnipro River basin, phosphate contamination is 3.5 times the acceptable standard. Since 2000, the phosphate content in rivers has increased by threefold. These substances enter the waterholes and contribute to the reproduction of dangerous bacteria. Remember what happens in summer on the shores of the water. Epidemics, poisoning, and water blooming It's not to mention what kind of water we're using. In many countries in Europe, such as Italy, Austria, Holland, Germany, there has been a long - standing legislative ban on phosphates. In Japan it has been active since 1986. The same in Korea, Australia, most of the United States. Thus, substances that have been banned in all civilized countries for 10 years are entering our country’s market. The bill contributes to a real solution to the problem. Because the technical requirements of the Cabinet of Ministers, which seem to be banned today, are not working. This is illustrated in a eloquent way by the state of our waters, and this is demonstrated in a eloquent way by the meeting held at the Ministry of Energy and Environment on Friday to ban the use of phosphates. In addition, the State does nothing to protect water from industrial sewage. Some who are only interested in money will say that the EU does not have a ban on phosphates and cleaning products for industry. So I'll give you an answer. In the EU, separate water treatment plants are installed for industrial sewage. It is these buildings that provide up to 95 percent of phosphates from the water. So they have people drinking tap water, and in our country, people don't know what kind of money to buy drugs for. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to start work on solving the water condition problem and to support the bill in the first reading, not to send it out as suggested by the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u199	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use by Nesterenka Kirill Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u200	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Environmental Policy and Use considered the draft Ukrainian Law on State regulations in the area of cleaning products submitted by the Ukrainian National MP, Spain, and the results of the review recommend that it be rejected. As noted in the report, it is proposed to prohibit the introduction into Ukraine of phosphate-based detergents and, as of January 1, 2021, of ammonia-based surface-active substances with a certain proportion of active substances from being imported into Ukraine. In general, while supporting the intention of a bill to restrict the use of phosphate - based detergents in Ukraine, as well as one of the main causes of surface water pollution, the committee made a number of comments to the project. First of all, it is worth noting the declarative nature of the specified part of the project’s provisions that relate, inter alia, to State oversight, mine control, financing, and incentives for mine action, and so on. The project is overloaded with strong norms and reinforcements to European standards and relevant directives of the European Union without their specificisation. The Committee for the Implementation of the Ecological Assembly for Importers of Trade Networks and Individuals of Trade that Import, Produce and Implement in Ukraine's Territory, is responsible for the use of phosphate-containing detergents. By the way, this rule is not in line with the tax and tax lists set out in the Ukrainian Tax Code. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office recommends that the bill be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative. By failing to support the bill, members of the committee unanimously supported the need to resolve its extremely important issue for the country, and the committee formed a working group on legislative regulation of the treatment of cleaning agents. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u201	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u202	Thank you for your attention, and please support the Committee's decision on rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u203	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for two in favor, two in favor. Dear colleagues, I'm going to continue this meeting for 15 minutes, but this is to consider the issue that we are now in the order of the day, exactly 1170, I mean. The word is given to Kubi Stepan Ivanovich. Sumar Victoria Petrovna, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u204	Thank you, colleagues. Thank you to the authors of this bill for their attention on such an important subject. In fact, it's more important than it seems, because it's about water quality, it's about land quality, and pollution in Ukraine is at an extremely high level. And, in fact, in Europe, the discussion on this has been going on for a long, long time. Europe, you know, not in word, but in fact trying to be green, but in Ukraine we have a certain amount of problems, something that applies, particularly to ecology. So it's obvious that this question is out of date. As far as this bill is concerned. You are right that the EU Directives and the EU Rules provide for a clear list of those detergents and those harmful substances that are prohibited before use. Here, unfortunately, we see enough declarant law, which in some parts even contravenes the EU Rules and even contravenes the Association Agreement with the European Union, which is the conclusion of a professional committee. Next. The declarativeness of this bill is also expressed in that it seems to provide for responsibility, but does not, in fact, provide for it, because the amendments to the Criminal Code are not made by this bill. So you could say that he's a criminal-administrative liability, but if you don't change the codes, there's really no responsibility. The same is true of the Ukrainian manufacturer. Well, there's no change to the Tax Code, this time. And the second thing that's not there is a transitional period, if Ukrainian producers could adapt to new European conditions, and that's all to be discussed. So I am very grateful to Mr. Rybchin for his offer, along with the deputies, to work on a suitable bill to be quality and to be in line with the Ukraine Agreement with the European Union. I think in general, and my colleagues in "European Solidarity" share this position that we need the entire Environmental Code, in which we need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u205	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u206	Which would really be about introducing European standards in the whole sphere of ecology, and then we would get a green Ukraine, and leave it to a future generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u207	Thank you. The word is given to Gurin Dmitry Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u208	Good afternoon, dear fellows! First of all, I want to say that I can't support the proposed model of regulation in this bill, it's really declarative. But I want to point out that we all live in Kiev. A large survey was conducted in the spring of Kiev, and the main problem people see, 42 percent, is the quality of drinking water. And we don't have drinking water in our taps, we can't drink it. We have Dnipro, you can look at his color in August, it blooms, there's algae, and that's also the result of a lot of phosphates in cleaning agents. And we have to understand that phosphates are just a matter of time before we give them up, and we have to start. So I want to go to the Committee on Environmental Policy here and ask that this question doesn't go out of order. Because, first of all, such a very practical thing, next year, I think at least four, all those in this room will live a certain period of time great in Kiev. This applies not only to all Ukrainians, but this applies personally to all who sit in this room. So I would like to ask this very question to pay great attention and not to take it too long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u209	Thank you. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u210	Please give the word to a colleague of the Labunsky Angelica Victorian faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u211	Labunsky Angela Victorian.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u212	Labunsky, the Fatherland faction. Well, first of all, I want to thank my colleague for bringing his bill to the attention of, really, a very big problem that is unfortunately in Ukraine. You know, by the end of the last century, medicine had a very harmful effect on human life. You and I are all very aware that never in life can we put the chemical wastes that are there out of the container or from the fabric to the end. Our skin is the third kidney. And so today, unfortunately, our country has not yet turned down or addressed the issue of phosphate. Unfortunately, though, the bill is not perfectly written, it is indeed contrary to the Tax Code, and it needs to be amended to the Tax Code because the environmental congregation is envisaged. In fact, this is also a question of water use, because the main artery of the Dnipro River today suffers greatly from those wastes that are domesticated. Indeed, this law is contrary to the Consumer Rights Act, and indeed, to a number of laws. Indeed, some issues are not in line with the European Union’s Rules. But you know that a working group was set up on the environmental committee just from the drafting of this bill, and that question will be settled as soon as possible. I invite all my colleagues to join our committee, along with the Ministry, and I'll file it with you. Three seconds. To be considered by the Supreme Council is in line with all factions a law that will not contradict.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u213	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u214	Which will not contradict European legislation will be fully aligned with the executive branch of power and with all the deputies. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u215	Thank you, Angela Victoria. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u216	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Strangely enough, two bills in a row are those bills that are absolutely, absolutely, so civilized, absolutely, let's say, legal ones that today provide for Ukraine's future, why the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support it, and also the committees of profile. So we need to figure out, I'm going to the main faction of ours, that is, when you didn't vote on the previous law, you think you'll never be witnesses. The same thing "European solidarity" thought of the last call, but you see, today they're voting normally and they understand that sometimes we have to think. And this bill. I'm grateful to the author, this bill, he's talking about Ukraine's future. I'm not going to let you know if I tell you that drinking water will be the biggest problem in the world for the next 10 years. We either need to make these decisions now, yes, or it will be too late. Last week, you know, Ukraine was able to do it because Ukraine. There are three countries in the world that burn leaves, burn fires, and when you fly from Europe to Ukraine, there is no need for an airplane to announce that you are flying into Ukraine. From March to July, and from August to December, as soon as you see everything down there burning and all in smoke, you know you're home and you're flying over a little girl in Ukraine. I urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill, these are perfectly normal bills, and it can be further developed into second reading. And as for my observation, in which order it is necessary for the presiding officer to put the laws to the vote. There is no order in the Rules, namely, 114 articles that provide for the possibility of four decisions. Article 45, which speaks of what may be accepted in order of yield. I'm addressing the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it's your right to make some kind of rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u217	Please turn on the microphone, let me make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u218	Or first, according to 114 articles, to put all the laws on the basis of the vote and to see whether they have voted or not, or then to make the outrage uniform and to put the committee first by voting. Then we'll have, well, somehow the MPs will expect you to put the first one to the vote and how the laws will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u219	Thank you, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. We have one case where we voted differently, and that's how we always vote on the committee's decision first. From the committee, Marikowski, a minute of motive. Then Deputy Minister Rybchin with a motive. Oh, and Klimpush-Cincadze and. No, you've been acting out of faction, I'm sorry. Marikowski, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u220	Colleagues, phosphates poison our lives. That's true. However, the committee’s decision to send for further work is only because the bill itself does not comply with certain directives. We want to say that we're already dealing with this subject, and there's already been a meeting of the Cabinet on the elimination of phosphates. On it. There was a decision to talk to the business that we had invested. We'll talk and ban them soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u221	Thank you. Klimpush-Cincadze is a motive, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u222	Thank you. Dear colleagues, indeed, the goal stated on the issue that this bill has to solve is very noble and very necessary for our society. At the same time, I want to support all those colleagues who have spoken about the fact that this bill unfortunately violates a separate European Union regulation 648/2004. And I would like not to support this bill, but to work on the one that will be in line with European Union law and our commitments under the Association Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u223	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich is a minute of motivation. After that, Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u224	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, we have repeatedly talked about ecology. For example, I have 40 people who have cancer, cancer patients who today have no opportunity to be tested or treated. This depends on even phosphates that now pollute even drinking water. As a child, each of us could drink water right under the tap, not just from the well. Therefore, we should carefully redraft the law and still put it to the vote. Please tell me that the country is suffering from cancer today. That's why this bill is the most important. And you don't have to compare it today, the opposition national MP today passed this bill or from the "Serve of the People." We need to support Sphenov in this bill. Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u225	Thank you. Rybczyn Alexei Mihajlovich, Deputy Minister One minute, it's motive. And let's go to the vote. Asking you to take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u226	Dear National Deputies, from the Minecoenergo team, we thank you for the discussion that has shown that ecology and environmental protection unites all national MPs. It's very important. That the last draft on hazardous wastes, that the bill in force on regulation in the area of laundromats, is out-of-date. Unfortunately, they don't implement those mechanisms that enable Minecoenergo to effectively work them. We invite respectable colleagues with no matter what factions, opposition, coalitions. We will work to improve the environment, to solve environmental problems. Regrettably, this bill needs further work. So please don't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m0.u227	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal that came from the committee, namely, to reject the draft Law on State regulations in the area of laundering (Registration No. 1170). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[14:11:55]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The evening will begin at 4:00. Ask not to be late.
