ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! I see the hall is full. Please prepare for registration, we'll begin registration in a minute. Good morning, members of the media and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, ready to register? I'm reminding you that registration is taking place. Some national deputies will now be issued duplicate cards. Someone forgot them at home, didn't they? Is everyone ready to register? Mikhail Leontiyovich, distinguished colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. We're about to begin our registration. As a reminder, registration takes place by clicking on the pros button. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:06:12]] A total of 351 Ukrainian national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. On November 14, 2019, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, who was elected to the election of Ukraine's national deputies on July 21, 2019 in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency, Vitarovitch Volodymyr Mihajlovich, who was included in the election list of the Political Party "European Solidarity". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a Ukrainian national deputy takes an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the Ukrainian national deputy Vjatrović Volodymyr Mihajlovich is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. And may God help me to do so. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an announcement. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and according to the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction of the People's Party of the People's Party of 15 November 2019, I report that there have been exceptions to the parliamentary faction of the political party "Serve of the People" of Ukraine: Polakova Anton Eduardovich and Krachod Anna Konstantinovna. Dear colleagues, December 3rd marks the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights, Galina Mikhailovna Trelyakova, is invited to attend. However, I would like to point out from myself that I think it would be right for each of you, as a citizen, and as a national deputy within your capabilities, to make every effort, within their powers, to create, indeed, equal rights for all citizens of Ukraine. Galina Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The people of Ukraine, December 3, are indeed celebrating the International Day for the Protection of People with Special Needs. It's called Disability Day, and people with disabilities don't call themselves disabled. They have additional needs that we need to provide, including as national deputies. Today, on behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and the Protection of the Rights of Veterans, on behalf of the People's Servant faction, on behalf of the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would like to congratulate these people on their holiday and on the fact that 10 years ago, on December 16, Ukraine signed an international convention to which we implemented the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. And it's been part of national legislation for 10 years. At the same time, you and I very rarely meet them on the streets, although they are 6, 1 percent of the total number of people living in Ukraine. We would like to make a new approach and a new concept of involving such people in public space and helping them in their employment to be equipped with jobs for people with special needs because their needs are very diverse. I want to say hello to all of us because people with disabilities are an example to any healthy person. Every day, in the face of pain, they give us the hope that a person, even if he is in pain, can be part of our economic life. I want to say hello to everyone: both the healthy and those who are people with special needs -- that we can all build our Ukraine together, no matter what level of problem we have. Congratulations, everyone. Good luck. Don't let your faces get dark, your faces are happy and happy. And the rate of happiness for people with disabilities also needs to rise in Ukraine. With the feast of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I don't think it's a holiday, with all due respect. I understand it's just a sign date for Ukraine, for the world. Nevertheless, let us not salute, but let us do so. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is taking action on the occasion of World AIDS Day. I give the floor to the Head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance of Raducci Mikhail Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u6	On December 1, Ukraine, with the international community, celebrates the World AIDS Day. The main goal of this day is to turn society's attention to the problems of HIV/AIDS and motivate our citizens to think about how to prevent the spread of disease and to mention the importance of timely diagnosis of HIV infection. In many parts of the world, well - known politicians, public figures, actors, musicians, and others are involved in such educational activities. That is why the National Health, Health and Health Insurance Committee and the Anti - AIDS - United States Foundation in Ukraine are currently holding a social education campaign during which a voluntary anonymous HIV-infection test will take place. I invite all colleagues to join the voluntary HIV-infection test, which is being conducted today, starting at 9:30 in the second floor towers at the registration tables. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u7	Thank you, Mikhail Borisovich. Dear colleagues, announcements. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the entry of the National Deputy, Vátarović Volodymyr Mihajlovich, as part of the European Solidarity Party's parliamentary faction. According to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. Please sign up for the factions. Tzabal Volodymir Volodymyrovich, faction of the Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u8	I give the word to Olga Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u9	Olga Anatolyevna Stefanishina Dear colleagues, please come out, time is coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, good morning! First of all, we'd like to honor the death of two soldiers in Ukraine by a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u11	Thank you, dear fellows. The second topic I would like to address the entire parliamentary room today is to remind all the national MPs why we are in Parliament today. Dear colleagues, last week in the National Health Committee, there was an unacceptable situation. I would like to say that this situation does not concern me alone. And I remind you, the ex-representative of the pharmaceutical company, Alexander Chumak, came to the National Health Committee and said literally that he and my colleague, Alexander Ustinov, would cut off the bogs for our draft Law 2089. Today this law, the draft law, has been in Parliament for three months. This man came and threatened me personally and my colleague according to this bill. He's called on to lower the price of drugs and collect profits from pharmaceutical companies. Dear colleagues, I didn't come out here today to tell you that this situation could happen to any of you. And representatives of agrarian business or gaming business, or any other business today, can come quietly to the profile committee and threaten the people's deputies for their legislative activities. Second thing I want to say. I want to thank, including the members of the "People's Servants" faction, who wrote me sympathy, and said that they would support us in any of our actions. We've already filed with the Attorney General's Office for this case to be investigated as criminal conduct. And secondly, today I want to turn to the regulatory committee from this rostrum. We have several requests and demands for a regulatory committee that I want to make. First. To investigate and determine the reasons for Mr. Chumak’s presence as a representative of the public at a meeting of the Committee of 28 November 2019, taking into account the direct conflict of interest and, if necessary, the establishment of a provisional inquiry committee in accordance with article 87 of the Supreme Council Rules. Taking into account Mr. Chumak’s violation of the committee’s order of meetings, forbid him from attending further meetings of the committee and from expressing an official position on the inadmissibility of pressure on Ukrainian national deputies in exercising their powers in the process of lawmaking, in order to respect the principle of free discussion and decision-making. Dear colleagues, this address is addressed to the Regulatory Committee today. And I, by the way, propose to all the deputies who are concerned about their future fate in Parliament, to join in. Because once again, it's not just me. Today it's just a mess happening in our parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u12	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u13	And on the profile committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u14	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u15	Dear Chairman, distinguished national deputies, we all have only a few hours left to send a very important post office to London. Tomorrow the heads of NATO member states will meet there, for the first time in five years there will be no Ukrainian President. But it is a good thing that in the last minute, Ukraine was able to send a delegation with the foreign minister. Parliament must defend and support the Ukrainian position and demonstrate that the new composition of the Supreme Council supports Ukraine's accession to NATO, including the NATO Action Plan. I would stress that the PPP is not just an application, it is a bilateral agreement when Ukraine commits itself to reform and NATO commits itself to accepting Ukraine as a member. Because NATO alone has a strong guarantee of security and NATO alone is ensuring a just, real, reliable peace. We ask, very well, that my ruling on this application is in order of day, we would like to consider it immediately after the completion of the consideration of the VAT Act. And there's no need to be afraid of Putin in Paris. God forbid, the strategic perspective of Ukraine's NATO membership should be exchanged for a mythical, fair peace based on a toll scenario. This is one of the most important red lines that we can map out on the eve of the Nordic summit. The other one. We need to take a clear road map on the implementation of the mine process, where the safety component, including the withdrawal of troops, Russian engineering and artillery, is ahead of the political component. And there's no compromise on the uniformity of the state. No negotiations with the fighters, because their "mouse king" is in the Kremlin, and we need to negotiate with him, and Ukraine must be protected by the position of our allies, and the negotiations must be held together. It was the fifth year when Ukraine did not buy gas in Russia. We are completely satisfied with the supply of gas from Europe, and now there is no minimal need to buy it again in Russia, no cube. Bringing this weapon back to Putin's hands is a real surrender. We all want peace. We all wish the success of the Ukrainian delegation. And to strengthen it in the negotiations, we know clearly that there is democracy in Ukraine, the symbol of democracy is Parliament. There's only one agenda item.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u16	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u17	Thank you. It's a two-gauge. The first line is, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no!".. And the second word is, "Glory to Ukraine!"..
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u18	The National Deputy Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna, political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, I wanted to inform you that yesterday the United headquarters for the protection of Ukrainian agricultural land was established in Ukraine. I'm informing you about the document that created Ukrainian civil society, there's no politics here. Who organized the United headquarters for the protection of Ukraine’s agricultural land? First of all, this is the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, separately – the Association of Farmers and Private Owners of the Agrarian Complex of Ukraine. In addition, the Assembly of Agrarian Chambers of Ukraine, public organizations of veterans, volunteers, scientists and many others. In fact, this document right now, which is called the United People's Department's Manifesto for the Protection of Ukrainian Agricultural Land, has actually been signed by millions of people, just by the signatures of those social organizations that represent them. What do they require? First of all, they think that the sale of agricultural land, I quote this manifesto: "is a real threat to Ukrainian national security and must be considered -- attention! - law enforcement agencies, not the reason for the showdown on TV channels of random people who have reached power." This is exactly what the organization, which I've just read out, requires the MPO, the Henprocuratory, the DBR and the IMF. In other words, public officials and their teams believe that what happens to agricultural land is not a political decision, and this is a real crime that will be investigated sooner or later, and sooner or later, everyone behind this affair just sits behind bars. The other one. Agrarian reforms and sales of land do not have the right to engage in legionnaires who are far from the realities of the agricultural economy and who have never worked on the earth. Under the dictatorship of international speculators, they're trying to sell out all strategic objects quickly, including land resources. They demand an immediate withdrawal from all the bills relating to the sale of land, an immediate nationwide referendum on the general decision of the people to sell agricultural land, they demand that they be immediately heard by the Parliament in order to have the right to have an idea that 73 percent of the people in Ukraine are against the laws adopted in the first reading. They speak, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u20	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u21	30 seconds please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u22	I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u23	They're saying that if President Zelensky said that he would make any important decisions on the basis of a popular referendum, and today, knowing that 73 percent against and he doesn't hold a referendum, that means conspiracy behind the Ukrainian people. We demand that we listen to these public figures and stop having an affair with the sale of agricultural land.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u24	The word is given to National Deputy Guzu Igor Volodimirovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u25	Good afternoon! Igor Gus, MP for the Future. Dear friends, I tried to find this room this morning with the eyes of Roman Ivanov, our grief colleague, I don't see him. I think he's watching the broadcast right now, and I want to talk to him. Roman, how'd you sleep in the last two or three weeks? What did you talk to the voters about in Equinox? What kind of emotions do you have? Do you read social networking? I'm a Marjorie MP, and I don't know how my colleagues have been here in the last two weeks, hundreds of my voters have been asking me with a simple question: how am I supposed to be in this room with a man who raped a woman who hid it, who lied to her voters in July-June this year? How will this person go out on this rostrum, what will he say? People say the following. Today any rapist who rapes will say, "It'll be time, and I'll go to Parliament, and I'll write laws, I'll teach morals and fellow MPs and voters and so on." I'm not characterizing this man with any political power right now. It's a personal responsibility, a moral and ethical responsibility to continue to be in this room or to form a mandate. I personally believe that it is not just me, millions of people today who ask questions, that a person who has committed such a crime can work in Parliament, or that he has a moral right to come to his district, hiding it from elections and looking people in the eye? Does such a person have the right to remain unrepentant, not apologize to everyone? I don't think so. And I don't have any personal information, I don't even know Mr. Ivaniss. I believe that this person should give up his mandate and not embarrass the Ukrainian Parliament. So, Roman, I know you're watching this broadcast, giving up your mandate, not embarrassing Parliament. Otherwise you'll feel worse. I would like to congratulate the parliamentarians on their offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues. Sergei Vladislavovich. Announcing. "In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report that the MP's faction of the political party "Slut of the People" at its meeting on 2 December 2019 has decided to exclude from the MP's faction Ivanisov Roman Valeriovich. The head of the David Arahami faction." The word is given by Sougiri Olga Volodymyr from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, based on the provisions of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a decision has been taken. I think it's logical and reasonable in these circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u28	Everything? Tetjana Mikhailovna's crying, "Oppositional.".. Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u29	Dear Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs! In a few days, there will be 100 days of work for this Parliament. And there's already some statistics about how he worked these 100 days. Over the past 100 days, Parliament has adopted, reviewed 126 bills of authorship of the "Serial of the People" faction and 13 bills of authorship of all other factions together. This is a direct violation of the quota principle that was decided before the Supreme Council began. What's more, among these 126 bills of the People's Servants, there are virtually no ones that people are waiting for, and for which they voted for all of us who are present today in Parliament. These bills simulate work, not answer people's questions that concern them. And we insist that the quota principle be restored and all factions have the right and the opportunity to participate in political life. This is especially important before December 9th and the meetings of the presidents of the Normandy format. We share the very important expectations of this meeting in order to remove the two critical issues that concern society, the peace in Ukraine and the restoration of the transit of Russian gas by our territory to Europe. We are already hearing allegations of possible betrayal, of some red lines that do not need to be crossed. It is sad and cynical that these allegations are echoed by political figures who, for five years in a row, put the country in a deadlock and did not solve the problem. Our faction supports a peaceful solution to the East conflict. We believe that we need to adopt changes to the Constitution that will enable us to work on the Special Status Act. We are fully aware that this is the only way to resolve conflict and return territories and people. We know that we need to be prepared to compromise on the restoration of Russian gas transit in order to make it impossible to turn our gas transport system into a pile of scrap metal. And I call on all responsible politicians to support December 9th, to support this meeting for the citizens of Ukraine and our future state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go back to the draft Law 2116 on Amendments to the Law on the State Bureau of Investigation on Improving the Activities of the State Bureau of Investigation (second reading). The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Legal Protection of the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u31	Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! Before we go to the consideration of specific amendments, I would like to point out that last Wednesday the committee met and decided to correct the transfer of investigators and prosecutors to the State Bureau of Investigation who are currently working there. This amendment is given to you in table number one. And before the final vote, before voting in favour of the law as a whole, I will also propose to vote in favour of this amendment in order that there is no doubt that the Supreme Council supports the need and urgency of investigating the Midan case. Now let's do the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I suggest you follow the amendments in the order in which they are. And if that's possible, if they're partially accounted for, still don't waste time and accept this bill as soon as possible. I thank you all in advance. Amendment number 16. Greenchuck. Amendment number 17, Osadchuk. No. 18, Med. Edit number 19, Herotschenko. Amendment number 20, Osadchuk. No. 21, Greenchuck. Odachuk, will he insist on his work? Which one, will you tell me right now, please? Okay. Amendment number 22, Shahov. Amendment number 23, Greenchuck. Check, please turn on the microphone. Amendment number 22.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u33	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. The law of ours will be too much. That's why I can do half a minute. We will definitely support this bill. But I would like to point out that the number of times we have approached all anticorruption authorities, none of our demands have been taken into account, nor has criminal conduct been violated. I'm here about the Severodonetsky. The secretary of the council, the board of deputy bandits, who are murderers and robberies. 100 million dollars registers in the year Igor Butkov, and no one pays attention to where the money came from. When will this end? Please tell me, when all of our questions are taken into account, all of our requests to the D.B.I., to the anti-corruption prosecutor's office?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u34	Sergey Volodymyrovich, with all due respect, but this does not apply to amendment number 22.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u35	And when you can get your hands on it.?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u36	Thank you. Amendment number 23, Greenchuck. Amendment number 24, Shahov. Amendment number 25, Osadchuk. You're not going to insist on the papers anymore, are you, Sergey Volodymyrovich? Thank you. Amendment No. 27, Kožemyakin. No. 27? Please turn on the Skinnyakin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u37	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, is the main thing that, unfortunately, the first revisions have passed. The bill that we are considering today does not provide a major justification for changing the status of the State Bureau of Investigation from the central executive branch to the state law enforcement body. That's the main thing. With regard to this bill 27, there we propose that the State Bureau of Investigation legal acts be subject to State registration by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and be included in the Single State Register of Legislation. Well, it's off-limits. As I personally believe, it is important, as the committee believes, to have rejected it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u38	Andriy Anatoliyovich, are you insisting on voting for this amendment? National Deputy Cosemiakin. Mr. Kozemyakin. Dear folk. Don't insist. Thank you. The position of the committee and move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u39	The position of the committee, as well as of other state bodies, such as the National Bank and the Public Prosecutor's Office, is not necessary for the registration of legal acts by the relevant body in the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u40	Thank you. Andriy Anatoliyovich, next line 28. Are you insisting? And please tell me you're going to insist on your work in the future, right? Will you insist? Thank you. 29th Vassilevska-Smagluk. 30th, Cosmackin. 31st, Hero. 32nd, Mikhailuk. 33rd, Osadchuk. 34th Medal. 35th, Frolow. 36th, Batenko. 37th, Stefanchuk. 41st, Greenchuck. 42nd, Alekseyev. 43rd, Hero. 45th, Osadchuk. Thank you. Medder, will you insist on your rights? No, it's not. Thank you. 50th, Cimbaluk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u41	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. When we talk about the amendment of this bill after the first to the second reading, we need to realize that this body, which was originally created as the central authority of executive power, has become the law-enforcement body of the presidential vertical, and we need to talk about it professionally today. And my rights, like the following, were still relevant to allowing, firstly, the parliamentary control of this law enforcement body to be maintained. The second is to give the D.B.I. manager the opportunity to take charge of the area of work that's on him. But when it's suggested to the President that he be appointed to perform his duties until the time of the competition, after all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u42	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u43	That the philosophy of the whole bill is returning to the creation of another law enforcement agency, exactly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u44	Thank you. Michael Mikhailovich, don't you insist? Thank you. 54th, Hero. 55th, Osadchuk. I'm sorry. 57th, Pavlouk. 58th, Puzichuk. 59th, Mikhailuk. Mikhailuk insists on working? No, it's not. Thank you. 60th, Alekseyev. National Deputy Alekseyev, will you not insist on your work? None. Thank you. 62nd, Mama. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u45	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! In fact, it has already been true that a new law enforcement body has been created under the direct supervision of the President. I would like to point out that the law enforcement body should have its independence. As you can see in 62 directions, they want to change it and move it out in such a way that at least the regular schedule was approved not by the President of Ukraine, but by the head of the State Bureau of Investigation. Please put the amendment to the vote. And I also want to say that every law enforcement agency has its own apparatus that acts as the head of the law enforcement agency. By this law, we take the apparatus, we empower the President to sign organizational and state changes. So what independence will we talk about in the new law enforcement body? Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u46	Denis Anatolyevich, comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u47	First of all, the committee believes that in this case we are increasing the level of independence of the State Bureau of Investigation by bringing it out of the subordination of the central authorities of the executive branch. And with regard to the establishment of an organizational structure, only the President can approve it, but in fact, the elements of this structure are already enshrined in the law. See article 9 of the DBR Law, all the elements are fixed there. So there's nothing to expand or invent in this plan. Therefore, the President is merely formally carrying out this mission, and there is no direct presidential vertical here to speak of entirely inappropriately. That's why it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, I'm putting number 62 of Mamka's National MP to the vote, and the committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[10:45:37]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Amendment number 63, Your Honor. Don't insist. Edit number 64, Aleksiev. He's gone. 76 revisions, Kinsburg. 77th, Mama. Please turn on the microphone. And you're going to insist on all of this? I got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u49	What I'm saying is that at 77th right, I'm putting criteria on the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, and I'm also taking the criteria off the appointment of the first deputy and deputy director of the State Bureau of Investigation. Why should qualifications be excluded from article 10? Because this law provides for, first of all, unity. The uniqueness of the appointment, the election of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, and the managers, the first deputy, and the deputies provided by law, in fact, we create the same qualifications as the Director. But what is the purpose of these qualifications if the manager chooses a human resources tool, assigns them, and is responsible for them? Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I'm putting the number 77 of Mamka's National MP to the vote. She was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[10:47:38]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Amendment 81, Vasilevska-Smagluk. Don't insist. Are you going to insist on what you're doing? No, it's not. Thank you. Amendment 83, Yvchenko. Don't insist. Aren't you going to insist on what you're doing? Thank you. Eighty-five, Batenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u51	Dear friends, on the preceding Friday, when we had our last plenary meeting, we had the opportunity to reason on what we were doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u52	Taras Ivanovich, you can't hear if you can get into the microphone, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u53	I'm saying in the microphone, it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, please be a little quiet in the hall, because you don't hear your colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u55	Dear friends! At the last session of Parliament, we argued in a reasoned manner that, in fact, this bill, if adopted in such a state, does not guarantee the independence of the State Bureau of Investigation. We're talking about what we're actually getting out of the influence of the D.B.I. proviso, although in the appointment or dismissal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a senior legislative body, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as a senior representative. We're taking it. We're cleaning up a completely collegiate principle, we're giving the President inequitable functions. Including amendment 320, on which I insisted on confirmation, which envisions the termination of the DBD's headship, the DBD's deputy head, on behalf of the President. In fact, right after adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u56	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u57	In fact, right after the adoption of this bill, what independence of the State Bureau of Investigation can we talk about in this room? Our MPs will not vote for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u58	Let me finish. Let me finish my Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u59	Dear friends, we urge you to abstain from voting for this bill on second reading and to send it back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u60	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich, I understand that you will not insist on the following revisions. Thank you. Edit 86, Cosmiakina Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u61	Cosmackin, Fatherland. Regrettably, in the draft order of appointment and release of the Deputy Director of the DBR, the First Deputy, the Editors violate the principles of staffing for the State Bureau of Investigation. This is exactly what our European colleagues kept telling us about when we started defending this bill in the Council of Europe five years ago. Of course, the project proposes that the Director of the Bureau be given the authority to appoint individuals as the first deputy and deputy director and to determine their responsibilities outside the competition. Even though everyone else in the D.B.I. is going to work there, everyone's going to compete. I think it's unfair and wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u62	Do you insist on voting? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u63	The draft law clearly prescribes a procedure for the release of substitutes, so that was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, I place the number 86 of the People’s Deputy of Cosemiakin on the vote. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[10:51:32]] For 135 The decision is not taken. Next line 88, Princely. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! Because according to the Law on Amendments to Certain Laws on Re-implementation of Powers of Executive Authorities, only the Cabinet of Ministers ceases on the grounds laid down by the TSOV Act. This amendment indicates that the bill allows for the consideration of the Head of the DBR to decide on the dismissal of the first deputy and deputy director of the DBR, that is what colleague Cosemiakin was talking about. I would like to remind you that given that we have not considered 5 of the case, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, any authority of the State may be either a legislative, executive or judicial authority or a special status. The D.B.I. has no special status. As a result, a non-status body should act in accordance with the Act amending certain authorities to reinstate authority, and these persons alone cannot be released by the head of the DBR. Please support the revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u66	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u67	This is about the principle of mononatality. If the manager comes in and is actually responsible for the activities of a particular body, he has the opportunity and has the ability to influence who his deputies will be in the event of their release in case of, for example, inadequacy of work. Thank you. So the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I place the number 88 of the People’s Deputy Kožemiakina on the vote. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. Princely, I'm sorry, Princely. [[10:53:35]] For 114 For 88. The decision is not taken. For - 114. The decision is not taken. Edit 88 rejected. Amendment 95, Cosemyakin. Are you insisting? I can't see. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u69	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich! Fatherland, Cosmackin. I can't help but insist on some of the fundamental remedies, because, in my time, the Committee on Law Enforcement, which today is the honorable Denis Anatoliyovich, I, let's say, for this bill, which in today's form, is now being made another, of course, that we fought and defended it abroad and in Ukraine. Therefore, this amendment applies precisely to the control of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the Supreme Council of Ukraine may express its mistrust with the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, which is the result of its resignation, the order of the hearing shall be terminated, and then the Director of the DBR shall terminate his mandate after the ruling has taken effect. This is perfectly normal for the parliamentary-presidential republic, which is the control of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u71	Dear Andriy Anatolyovich, this edit you're proposing is rejected in this edition. But in fact, the essence of the bill, yes, the recall mechanism, the mechanism for recognizing the DBR director's work as unsatisfactory and parliamentary control in the project is present. And it is decreed that the Director of the DBR reports to the Supreme Council every year, and the Supreme Council may find such a report unsatisfactory that it will result from his release by the President of Ukraine, as noted. So essentially this idea of yours, it was reflected in the bill, but not in the form that you were offered. But thank you for the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u72	Andriy Anatoliyovich, don't you insist on voting? Thank you. 97th, Cosmiakin. You will? Everything? Thank you. 98th, Hero. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that our political power has prepared a series of amendments to this bill with one goal: to reconcile the bill with the Constitution, which does not allow, does not give the President the powerless functions of single-handedly directing the forces. And more than that, as previously speaking colleagues correctly pointed out, just to avoid this principle of incompetent and improper appointment of the special composition of the DBR structure. So in the amendment that we insist on -- I want to point out that only a few of our amendments have been taken into account -- we are talking about the appointment of deputies. And we think there can't be a D.B.I. master's contraband here, and he can't solve these issues on his own. In general, it is ideal for the leadership of the D.B.I. to adjust the principle of the appointment of judges of an anticorruption court. It's the same thing as these.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u74	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u75	When international experts were working. And today this structure has the highest such authority in society. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u76	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u77	The position of the committee that. This is about the election of the D.B.I. Director and the commission of the so-called external competition commission. We leave the selection of the D.B.I. Director to a so-called external commission. But the selection of substitutes and those who work, that is, lower - level managers, is put into internal competitions. This is normal. In order not to overload the outer commission. Because, I can tell by fact, the external commission has been working for three years and has not yet been able to select those who are governed by the law. This is about 190 officials who are totally unacceptable. So this amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u78	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 98 of the national MP, Heratchenko. She was not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[10:58:40]] For 101 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 104 law, Heroshenko. 100 lashes, sorry, yes, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u79	Alekseyev, 99th. 100th, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u80	99th. Batenko's standing there. And so is Alekseus. Okay. 99 revisions, Alekseiv.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that the law provides for unlimited powers for the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation to appoint a deputy and a first deputy. The point is that the law lays down the principle that, as Director of the D.B.I., that we've corrected the rights, so all the employees are hired solely on a competitive basis. For some reason, the first deputy and deputy are disfellowshipped. This violates the principle of assigning DBR personnel. Please put to the vote and support the draft so that both the first deputy and the deputy will also go to the contest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u82	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, may we have a little quieter in the hall? Dear colleagues! Thank you. Because it's not even clear what the reporter's talking about. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u83	In fact, I have already commented on the position taken by the external commission of intercessors, first intercessors and intercessors. We don't think it's supposed to be the so-called external commission, but we think it's going to be the competitive commissions that are going to work that are already going to be assigned to the D.B.I. Director himself. So it was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number 99 of the People's Deputies of Alekseyev. The committee didn't count it. Please identify and vote. [[11:00:46]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 100, Princess. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, we do not have any government authority in Ukraine, where the first deputies and substitutes were appointed personally as leaders without any restraint or opposition. There's a competition system everywhere. In this case, the criteria of independence and competitive selection for all other public authorities are not met. This is a violent exception that refers to such an important organ that we've heard of on so many occasions from so-called film, where it's said that "The trumpet has broken." Whether they're true or not, they'll determine the investigation. But this body must be as transparent and independent as any other. I therefore propose to support this exercise in order to determine on competitive grounds the first deputy and deputy director of the DBR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u86	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u87	Competitive reasons remain with regard to the appointment of these persons. It is only here that the first deputy and substitutes will not be considered by a competitive outside commission: 3 representatives from the Supreme Council, the President and the government. So that's the reason we're taking them out of the selection of what's called an external competition commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u88	Thank you. Amendment number 100, I'll put it to a vote. This is the order of the People's Deputy of the Prince. The committee didn't count it. Please identify and vote. [[11:02:39]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Edit 104, Hero. Please turn on the microphone. Irina Volodymyrna, will you insist on all regulations? 104.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u89	Thank you. I would like to point out that those amendments that were unprincipled, we didn't insist on them, I think you've drawn attention to that, dear colleagues. But now we're going through the fundamental amendments. In the trouble area, colleagues, you've passed laws that you're correcting now. The law that we are discussing today will be the same because it violates the Constitution of Ukraine. Amendment 104 is trying to help you correct this law so that it is in line with articles 114 and 106 of the Constitution regarding the appointment of the leadership of the DBR. My colleagues have already pointed out that certain films that were published in the media show that today this structure is dependent on the Office of the President. That's not right. It's got to be an independent structure, and you're increasing the disease by giving you a single right at all, essentially, to the administration to direct this independent structure. We urge you to support amendment 104 in our editorial, which brings the law into line with the Constitution, to the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u90	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u91	One of the main ideas of the bill is to increase the independence of the DBR, transforming it from the central executive authority to an independent state law enforcement body, stressing, independent. Therefore, in this regard, the author proposes that the director be appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers, which is not appropriate if we support the transformation of this body into an independent state law enforcement body. So it was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u92	I'll bet you a vote of 104 people's deputies, Heratchenko. Please identify and vote. [[11:04:54]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Edit 107, Princely. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u93	Thank you. This right here is about the appointment procedure for the Director of the DBR. The Committee recommends that the President be appointed and released to do so on the basis of the reasons provided by law, including the statement of mistrust by the Director of the Supreme Council. The appointment process removes the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, whose function is solely to approve the composition of the competition commission. But given the position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, as I mentioned earlier, that it is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that should decide on the leader of the DBR. Because, as we have already said, there is a legislative, executive branch of power and a judicial branch. There are no public authorities outside these branches of government. That's why the Cabinet of Ministers should be doing this. Thank you. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u94	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u95	I've already commented on the position on the deputies. Again, the question is that of appointing substitutes. I emphasize once again that substitutes are assigned on a competitive basis. But the competition in this question, in this case, is internal. An internal competition commission, formed by a director, chooses the deputies accordingly. But it's not an external competition commission that's a wrong example of an assignment like this right now, for example, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u96	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? 107. I'll bet you a vote of 107 people's deputies. She was not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:06:58]] For 104 The decision is not taken. Edit 109, Alekseiv. Aren't you going to insist on any of your regulations?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u97	No, I won't insist on my work anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u98	One more time, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u99	All the other principles of correction are taken into account, and I will no longer insist on revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u100	All right, thank you. 112 revisions, Ustinova. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, this is a very important right that allows us to choose, not another political defender, but an independent head of law enforcement. What is proposed by this law is three international experts who will elect a new Head of the FBI and three representatives from the Presidential Administration. Unfortunately, in the proposed version supported by the committee, we have a majority of the majority. Six people, three from the Supreme Council and three from the President's Administration, are not a balanced competition commission, because these are all going to be representatives from one party. I'm asking you very much to support this amendment because this will allow you to choose an independent head of law enforcement, where the commission will be balanced. If this is not done, I strongly urge the representatives of the majority of the three people who will be from the Supreme Council to join the representatives of the non-mono-majority as well. Otherwise it's going to be another one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u102	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u103	At the moment, the current law of the Director of the DBD elects an external commission composed of three representatives of the Cabinet, the President, and the Supreme Council. We have included from Kabmin three representatives of so-called international experts to monitor the decisions made by the appropriate commission. So I think the position is partially accounted for. Setting a balance as suggested in the right is not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u104	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 112 people's deputies, Ustinov. She was not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:09:35]] For 104 The decision is not taken. 118th Amendment, Princely. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u105	Look, colleagues, it's kind of a trifle, it's about where the competition committee is going to be broadcast. In the law, it was broadcast on the Cabinet of Ministers' website. The first edition was proposed on the D.B.I. website. The committee is now proposing a meeting of the D.B.I. Competition Commission to broadcast on the President's website. You know, Maidan went out of his time, including to change the old Constitution as amended by Yanukovich, and to have Parliament as a democratic authority influence the processes, not the President who is persecuting people, turn Ukraine in one way or another, as was the case with the past authorities. We don't want to let that happen. We don't want the D.B.I. to be managed manually by the President's Office for political persecution, as it is now. So we think that this broadcast is supposed to be happening on the Cabinet of Ministers' website, as it is now. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u106	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u107	The issue of broadcasting is purely a technical question and is by no means a principle. But broadcasting on the Cabinet of Ministers' website interviews with an authority that the Cabinet of Ministers has nothing to do with, according to the committee, is not logical. So in this case, it's going to be the President's Office, technically and technically, that's going to provide a broadcast. That's why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u108	Do you insist on voting? I'll bet you a vote of 118 people's deputies. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:11:46]] For 101 The decision is not taken. Edit 122, Hero. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would be grateful if I could see the Head and notice Mr. Head. Dear Mr. Dmitre, you know, women's names don't change, I'm gonna be "Gherashchenka", not "Gherashchenka." And this is my amendment, as well as that of Jonah and Mr. Pauline. "Pavlenko" cancels because it's a male species. Now, with regard to the amendment itself, the honourable Mr. Head and the representatives of the majority. We make sure that the DBR is an independent body, and this amendment applies to the competitive commission itself. We believe that if the formation of it is based on the central apparatus of the DBR, it will not report and add independence to this competitive commission. We make sure that both the Supreme Council of Ukraine can influence this, and the Cabinet of Ministers, and we rely on the Cabinet Secretariat. We suggest we maintain this position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u110	Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u111	Because, once again, we are changing the status of the D.B.I. from the central executive power to the state independent law enforcement authority, in which case the Secretariat of Kabminu is no longer able to secure its activities, not at all. And given that, once again, it's about providing activity. It forms, as we said in the law, three representatives -- the Supreme Council, three representatives -- government -- and these are internationalists, and three representatives of the President. It provides technical support for the work of the commission, and that's what the committee, the Office of the President, is talking about. So this amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u112	Thank you. You insist, do you, Mrs. Hero? Okay. I'll bet on the vote of the People's Deputy Heratchenko in 122. Is it possible to speak to a national deputy or a member of the national parliament? The MP, yes, thank you. Dear colleagues. No, but that's what the Constitution says, Helen Constantinena. I'm betting on the vote of 122 people's deputies in Ukraine, Heratchenko. She's been rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:14:34]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Edit 126, Princess. Mikola Leonidovich, please tell me. Ladies and gentlemen, please step back and let us see the Prince. Dear National Deputies! Please have a seat. Mikola Leonidovich, would you please tell me that we're going to group up some sort of a set of papers so we don't have to go all the way? Why don't I give you three minutes to get you out of here?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u113	Dear colleague, look, we're adopting a law that once again sends the investigating repressive organs into the hands of one person and destroys democracy in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u114	Are you insisting on all forms?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u115	So I insist on editing, and I'm essentially going to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u116	Okay. I heard. Okay. 126th Amendment, Princely.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u117	Thank you. Thus, according to the current law, the work of the competitive commission is provided by the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers. The first reading was supposed to be the D.B.I. The committee proposes that the work of the organisational and technical services of the competitive commission and its members be provided by the body that provides for the activities of the President of Ukraine. At the same time, since the competition commission is created by a government decision, it is appropriate, in my view, to leave the law in force and to remove the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u118	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u119	Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u120	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u121	Again, the same position that if we change the status of the body, in this respect, the Cabinet of Ministers will have no relation and authority to ensure the work of this commission. Therefore, this will be done by the body that provides for the President's activities. It's purely technical, but I'm stressing again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u122	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. You insist on voting, do I understand? Amendment 126 of the People's Deputy of Knieżicky, the committee did not support it, please identify and vote. [[11:16:44]] For 101 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Amendment 127 of the Mamka People's Deputy. Can you please tell me if we're still going to group the papers?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u123	If I agree, my colleague will disagree. There's not much left, literally, there.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u124	Okay. Edit 127, Mamka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u125	In fact, the bill proposes that all funding for the competitive commission should be provided by the Ukrainian President's Department of Security, namely, the financing of the competitive commission and members would be carried out at the expense of the involvement of international technical assistance. The reporter says that everyone says that an independent body should be financially independent. The bill states that, and my bill says that financing a competitive commission that should be independent should also be financed from the DBD budget, which receives funds from the state budget. Well, not by the Office of the President of Ukraine. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u126	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u127	Gregory Mikolaiovich, I'll give you an example. In many contests, certain stages of these competitions are supported and provided, indeed, by international technical assistance. And that's why in this case we're giving this opportunity so that certain stages, for example, General Skills, if necessary, or there's psychological testing of candidates, could be funded by international technical assistance. Therefore, this does not apply in this case to the financing of the body or any other matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u128	Thank you. 127th Amendment of the Mamka People's Deputy. She was not considered by the committee. I'm betting on the vote, and I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[11:18:57]] For 104 The decision is not taken. Edit 131, Hero. Don't insist. Edit 132, Batenko. You insist, don't you? 131, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u129	Dear Mr. Head, you just dropped off the opposition to the doorways and you can't see even when we demand ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u130	If I'm not mistaken. Irina Volodymyrna, I'm sorry I interrupted you, I'm going to add time now, but there was a suggestion for a change. Do you really want to go back to her? I think you should talk to your colleagues. Please turn on the time for Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko first.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u131	Dear Mr. Head, now is the time measured by this Supreme Council, to you as Head of the Supreme Council, we will remind you daily of how you have done undemocraticly with opposition. Then you will be wiser in your next calling. The following two amendments are in principle: 131 and 141. And, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, you know, my colleagues from Voice, from Fatherland now, our colleagues from other factions rightly note that our amendments are all designed to form not just a new body by status, but a new body by ideology and an independent body by idea. So far, the bill that we're looking at is increasing the dependence of the D.B.I. That's why our 131st and 141st amendments, and this is Heratchenko, Jonov and Pavelenko, they're all about the work of the competition commission. And they make it very clear that a competition commission is supposed to be governed by independence, that independent international experts are supposed to be involved, and they have.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u132	Thank you. Denis Anatoliyovich, 131th Amendment, Committee position, People's Deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u133	The position of the committee that substitutes, first substitutes, and substitutes are also chosen on competitive grounds. And the committee formed by the Director of the DBR may also include international experts. So in this case, there's no question. In doing so, we unload the external commission, which is in this direction, which is to select the first person and assign her full responsibility for the work of this body. I think there are, in this case, any experiments on the activities of the law enforcement agency, well, they're inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u134	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? There's no second amendment. It'll be a while. No, Irina Volodymyr, number 131. Do you insist on voting? Okay. I'm betting on the vote of 131 national deputies, Heratchenko, and the committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:21:57]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Edit 133, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u135	This is again about the appointment of DBR deputies, who are not appointed by a competition commission. Obviously, when we're building a body that directly subordinates to the President and holds all the threads in hand to influence the political processes in the country, we have to realize that we're trying to build Belarus, which comes together with Russia in a single state where there's no democracy. Because only a democratic and independent Ukraine has a chance to defend its independence and win the war. I ask you to support this amendment, because by building dictatorial organs, we are actually building our weakness in front of our enemies. Please support and appoint intercessors through competitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u136	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u137	I'm sorry, but this statement is an absolute manipulation. Deputys are still assigned through the competition, on competitive grounds. The point is that the director is appointed here by an external competition commission, and the deputies are appointed by a commission formed by the State Bureau of Investigation itself. And so there's no question about usurpation of power, any focus of authority. It's about increasing the organ's independence. Please don't manipulate, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u138	The amendment of 133 people’s deputies to Knieżicky was not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:23:45]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Edit number 139, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u139	I don't insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u140	Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u141	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u142	Thank you. Amendment number 141, Hero. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u143	Dear Mr. Head, you offered to compose the amendments. Just as you were in the past, you listened to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u144	I didn't get it, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u145	I composed two amendments -- 131st and 141st, because they apply to the same position as the competition commission and the independent selection of D.B.I.'s deputy heads. And I just asked you to put the 131st and 141st votes in a row, which I heard in one minute. But you have not heard how often this happens when you do not listen to opposition. And the 141 amendment that concerns the independence of the leadership of the DBR and the deputies, I ask you to put it to the vote now, please, and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u146	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 141 national deputies, Heratchenko. The committee didn't support her. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:25:10]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Edit number 145, Yvchenko. Don't insist. Edit 151, Princely.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u148	Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u149	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u150	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u151	I thought not to insist, but I would answer to the committee head. Because I think that information about the competition, as we said before, should be published on the Cabinet of Ministers' website, which is elected by Parliament, not by the President. You know, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I personally knew many Belarusian and Russian parliamentarians who, like you now, had a wonderful education, were honest and decent people, and with their hands built dictatorships in their countries. The result is evident. I'm responsible for what I said. It's not manipulation. You're building a dictatorship now by this law under good slogans. I insist on the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u152	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u153	I've already commented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u154	Amendment 151. Do you insist on voting? Thank you. Edit 156, Princess. And you'll insist more. Okay. A, 153, Skinny. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u155	Cosmackin, Fatherland. Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich and the honorable Presidium! I'm addressing you, perhaps from all those behind the "Serve of the People" faction. Why? Sadly, you did not explain to them what an iron rule is: Do not stand in the aisles. On the fleet, it's on the floor, in the army, it's in the trench, and on the plane, it's in the center to get the wounded out. That's why I understand that maybe they'll sit there sometime, because it's dangerous for them to stand there, there's journalists. And there's a better place for us, please. Because when girls look at the backs of guys from your faction all the time, well, on their backs, it's not quite right, you know. I mean, somehow. First things first, it ends badly. They sat down at first. Well, about what. I can't see you. I'm having a hard time working.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear factions' heads, please take into account our colleagues' suggestions, make sure our colleagues do not stand or sit or take any other place because we don't see any other colleagues. Dear colleagues! Bondarenko! Oleg Volodymyrovich Bondarenko! I repeat, please, other colleagues and from the "Serve of the People" Party and from "For the Future." Lubinec Dmitry Valeriyovich, your colleague has just asked that they do not occupy the passageways. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich. Tishenko Mikolaajovich. Please have a seat. Sit down, please. Well, really, it's respect for colleagues. You can't see them, you can't see them. But sit down, not kneel down, it's from another story. Roman Mulik. Sit down, please. Thank you. Can we keep working? Thank you all very much, colleagues. 161st, Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u157	I don't insist. I don't insist on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u158	163th, Princely. Don't you insist? Thank you. Cymbaluk, 164th. Skinnykin, 168th. You won't be on the books. You see me. 179, Puzichuk. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u159	Respectable colleagues, respected citizens, the drafting of a second-reading bill foresees improvements in its position, the creation of a mechanism for the functioning of effective and effective standards, in their practical application, accessible and understandable to citizens. Instead of what we see, the bill completely cancels the possibility of parliamentary control of the DBR. As a result, we're going to get an authority that rules over all other law enforcement structures. His influence, power, and potential are far from common knowledge. We support changes to the law that allow us to continue investigating the Maydan case. However, other rules do not ensure effective regulation and do not conform to constitutional rules and principles. Please put my amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u160	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u161	Thank you for supporting the bill. Your specific amendment, it's about the principle of single-headedness and the vision of the committee, and in general, there can't be a collective decision-making in an organ like the State Bureau of Investigation. That's why your amendment was supported. But thank you for defining and understanding the importance of this extremely, really important law enforcement body, as the State Bureau of Investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u162	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yes or no? I'll bet you a vote. You just can't see it. It's where Vlasenko's standing. He's covering it up. You don't see people's deputies. 179th People's Deputy of Puziychuk. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:37]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. 191 A.D., Kožemyakin. Princey. I'm sorry. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this right refers to the employees of the State Bureau of Investigation, the conduct of a competitive selection into a public body in a manner that is established by this very state body is contrary to the requirements of independence of the State Bureau of Investigation. The proposed part of the fourth article is proposed to be excluded, since the conditions of work of civil servants are determined by the State Service Act. The establishment in the DBR Act of its rules for the conduct of the public service, in addition to the fact that nothing is justified, is still potentially creating a conflict in the application of two public service laws and that. The proposed changes to part six concerning the establishment of labour relations by this law in the lower office section contradict KZO, the change to article 32 KZOT, as there was no place in the case of the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2019, is not made. Therefore, the corresponding changes in the article should be excluded. The proposed part of the seventh article 14 is disfellowshipped, since there is no legal term for service. In addition, according to article 3 of the Law on State Service, relations arise in connection with the passing of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u164	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u165	are governed by the Civil Service Act. Among the list of officials to whom the law does not extend, there are no DBR officials. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u166	191st Amendment, the committee didn't support her, the People's Deputy of the Prince. I'm betting on the vote, and I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[11:34:45]] For-94 The decision is not taken. 207th, Princely. 206, Kozemyakin. It's just you. I understand you're just not going to insist on editing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u167	No, I didn't, because there are two more amendments, which are fundamental. I mean the ones you really need to pay attention to. And then after six months, we'll be making adjustments again so that we know that our conscience was clean. This raises objections, namely, to this right, to allow State officials of the DBR who do not have other civil servants the right to be transferred not only to the DBR, but to any other body even to a higher office without having to conduct a competition in a manner defined by the Ukrainian State Service Act. I think that's a priority for an organ that has not yet done anything useful for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u168	Do you insist on voting? Committee position. 206 correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u169	The committee determined that this principle should be applied. In order to enter the public service at the State Bureau of Investigation, a contest is needed. And in this case, transfers are excluded, except for one case -- the case of the investigation and prosecutors of the Maydan case, which we will be voting with all this law today. In other cases, the transfer is excluded. But if a civil servant has already taken office in the D.B.I., he may be transferred to an equivalent or lower position within the body.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u170	Thank you. 206 The People’s Deputy’s Deputy of Cosemyakin The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:37:16]] For-95 The decision is not taken. 207th, Cosmackin. Princey. I'm sorry, Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the direction in which the D.B.I. staff are being transferred. Such standards for DBR employees are, in fact, created by privileged conditions compared with other officials. What these privileged conditions do we now see. President Vladimir Zelenski writes that the right hand of the director of the DBR is suspected of getting a bribe of 150,000. And this, from the point of view of President Zelenski, is the argument to vote in favour of this law. Here, by the way, is the head of the D.B.I., which is written by President Zelensky. I would also be interested in President Zelensky's opinion about those people, particularly Mr. Bogdan, who have instructed the Head of the D.B.I. to do the illegal actions that we now know about. Reload, then all will be fair and correct. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u172	Amendment No. 207 of the People's Deputy of Knieżicky. She was not supported by the committee, so I put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:38:29]] For-94 The decision is not taken. 209, Ustinova. Don't insist. 211th, Shahov. He's a great man. Please turn on the microphone. 211th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u173	Majestic, Luganskin. Colleagues, this article provides a special position for members of the State Bureau of Investigation and violates the rights of other citizens to participate in a fair, open and honest competition for a certain position. Whatever the position, every citizen must have access to the job competition. Please put to the vote and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u174	I'm betting on the vote of 211 national deputies, Shahov and the High Commissioner, and the committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:39:48]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Line 214, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u175	Thank you, Mr. Head. This amendment refers to the formation of a special composition of the DBR. And in order to prevent the free transfer to the D.B.I. of government officials from other government bodies outside the competition, we suggest that we put this amendment into our editors, that the professional qualities of those people who will be transferred to the D.B.I. are still to be taken into account here, not only in the case of Maidan. I would like to point out that our political power supports the amendment concerning the special department of investigation of the Maydan case. There can be no preference, and we still insist on the professional formation of the D.B.I. Dear Mr. Head, the honourable chairman of the committee, please note that all the political forces are now noticing to you that you are forming an organ, as you rightly say, will receive a new statute, a new status of authority, but it will not get a new ideology, and by this law you are increasing its dependence. And that's going to be a mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u176	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u177	Mrs. Irina, in your direction it is suggested that there may be a transfer not only to equivalent positions but also to higher positions. And the committee in this case finds this unacceptable so that it can be transferred without a competition for senior positions in the D.B.I. We accepted the principle that I initially said that it was possible to transfer to equivalent or lower positions. And if the position is higher, we need a competition.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u178	Don't you insist? Thank you. 216th, Makarov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u179	Colleagues, my assignment is partially accounted for through 219. But I think that my editorial is better because it is established here that the transfer of members of the military and the chief of staff can be carried out by means of their initiative, the initiative of direct managers, supervisors, heads of other institutions, the institutions of the State Bureau of Investigation that have violated the question of transfer. I think that's a more complete and correct formulation. If my amendment is supported, then 219 will be put on confirmation, and then the editing of the regulation, which I just read, is part of the second part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, do you insist on voting? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u181	Your amendment was not taken into account because the proposed wording refers only to a person of the regular and the principal composition. And we've determined that transfer is also possible for people who work in the public service, that is, two different positions. That's why your readjustment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u182	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 216 of the people's MP Makarov, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:43:17]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Edit 217, Mamka. Thank you. 218th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. Heroshenko, 234. Don't insist. Ustinova, 236th. Don't insist. 241, Ustinova. All of it. Thank you. Heroette, 245? Are you going to insist on anyone else? Osadchuk, 246. Don't insist. 249, Mama. Don't insist. He insists. Ask your respectable colleagues, Ustinov. 249, Mamka. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u183	In fact, the bill provides for very simple things that internal control units will be created automatically both in the central apparatus and in the areas. My editorial says that it is necessary to allow the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation to make decisions where he should be, where he needs an internal control unit, and according to his decision, he should be created in areas. This will save the budget to carry out this internal internal control unit and will be a higher workload that can be dumped on those investigators who have to do the real work. The question is only in the internal control unit. Please put to the vote and support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u184	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u185	The committee did not support the initiative and the suggestion that internal control units should be subordinated directly to the Director of the DBR. Since we're doing an independent law enforcement agency, in this case it's a matter of having internal control units report directly to the Attorney-General when the offences that are committed, for example, by the leadership of the D.B.I. That's why your readjustment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u186	I'm betting on the vote of 149 National MP Mamka. The committee supported her. Please identify and vote. [[11:46:16]] For-90 The decision is not taken. 151st, Mamka. How many lines do you have left? Please turn on the microphone for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u187	Dear people's deputies, in fact, I want to support colleagues, it's impossible to work with the law in this room, because everything is noisy, it sounds like everyone's busy with their problems. I want to get out of simple things. First. I went to the University of Yaroslava Jadrogo, who concluded on the appointment of managers and the removal of them by law. And in fact, in the Supreme Council, we voted Bill 1014, which was given the right and extended the power of the President to accept, appoint, release the head of the State Bureau of Investigation. The Constitutional Court has not so far reached its conclusion. But we're in the legislative order, in advance of events, by increasing the President's authority, we're just deciding to remove ourselves from leadership. Jaroslava Wisely spells out these decisions, which will basically be declared unconstitutional. GNEU also concluded that the majority of national deputies who point out that the law enforcement body should be independent. What, though, is independence? Independence from what the President appoints, independence from what the current schedule approves and everything else, what result do we want from the new law enforcement body? We've switched very simple concepts for improving the work to recharge the new organ. Well, it's impossible to change the law to make a new law. If we release those leaders who were elected and initially for five years, how would the state answer if the term was over? Is there three years left before they're out of office? What do we owe them? Absolutely not. But there is no need to make such decisions under such laws. I want to put my last 314 to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u188	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u189	314. What is included in part, which explains the principles of work that the State Bureau of Investigation, the directors of the territorial other states. continue to exercise their authority until there are no new leaders. Why New Leaders? Because I want to make sure that, after the change of leadership in this law, the President single-handedly appoints individuals, we don't even know which, and we don't define the criteria for management. So let's take 314 rights to do what these managers are doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u190	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 314 of the Mamka People's Deputies. What's that? Wait a minute, he's in charge of his work, we haven't voted for him. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, I'm fixing it, it's him. He's all right, he's not insisting right now, he's insisting on that. Basically, we can go back to voting for her. Mamka, a distinguished national MP, insists that the vote for her be later. Let's do it later. Edit 253, Cosemyakin. Huh? No, I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u191	Dear Dmitry Alexandrovich, reverend Denis Anatolyovich! First of all, I would like to say that our faction has decided today not to support this bill as a whole. Perhaps, unfortunately, it is possible that the amendments we were offered were taken into account. But the law that will apply, your last one about the investigators who worked in the Attorney General's Office on Maidan's affairs, is supported by our faction, and we will vote for it. This time. I'd like two more minutes, I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u192	One minute. You've got two changes left, so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u193	Then I'll tell you briefly why we have, why we don't vote. Well, first of all, the faction won't vote because the organ is transformed from the central authority into a law enforcement agency. One. The other one. Special powers. Can you see me?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u194	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u195	Okay. Special powers for the Director of the DBR and all others.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u196	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u197	But it's a very interesting situation right now. Why? And using this situation, and Mr. Truba's presence here, I'll say the following. I'm the author of the project of the past, Denis Anatoliyevich, as the person who was on the board who appointed this director, and President Poroshenko, who elected this director. Maybe if he hadn't made a mistake and a commission, and Mr. Truba would have been doing better than he was doing what he was doing, why he came to him with the incomprehensible means, I don't think there would have been a project. So please, Mr. Truba, we all say, the European Code of Honor, the European tradition -- we have our own traditions of Ukrainian officer honour: "I have a lot of honour and leave office!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u198	Thank you. You don't insist on the papers, do you? 254th, Ustinova. You won't insist, Alexander Yuriovn? 259, Hero. Turn on the microphone, Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u199	Dear Mr. Head, I have both Mary Ionova and Ruslan Pavlenko. Rostislava Pavlovka is left with seven rights. I'm asking you to give us three minutes. In general, we will not insist on any further amendments. In fact, our political power is drawing your attention, Mr. Head, as well as the honourable head of the committee, that this is another case where the majority are absolutely not interested in what is going on in the session room, and it is adopting a law that will be contrary to the Constitution. As the colleagues of all factions rightly pointed out, apart from the monotony that read the law. Because the Ukrainian Constitution does not provide for the President to appoint the head of the DBR at the same time. Similarly, this law creates an entirely dependent institution of the next force and, unfortunately, the monotony that has come into play, which will build a new state, builds, in fact, a new state -- totalitarian, with police functions, with reinforcements.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u200	Give me another minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u201	I've got two, I've got seven amendments, I've got two more minutes. With increased reprisals of these power structures and their absolute dependence. Our political power has made so many amendments to bring this bill to the Constitution and Ukrainian legislation. Only a few amendments were included. In this case, after today's review, when everything was rejected by a majority, we will not support this bill. We only vote for the amendment concerning the creation of the Department for the investigation of the crimes of Maidan and the transfer of prosecutors there. The investigators, more loyally, from the Attorney General's Office who took care of this case. We would be willing to support the bill on reloading the DBR if it were a transparent complex, a transparent task of directing the DBR, not a single one from the President's Office, that it should be shaped in the same way as the Anti-Corruption Court, where international experts with confidence would play a key role. We will not create another repressive organ. And you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u202	Thank you. Give me another minute, Heratchenko, so it'll take three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u203	Friends, and I want to go now to journalists, to Ukrainian society. You know, when this majority on the Conciliation Council alone formed a future parliament, they didn't even listen to the opposition that would violate European principles -- the deployment of opposition. And they now admit every day that even this is a mistake, they say, well, let's move under the ceilings of journalists, because they're already afraid to sit there by themselves. Learn to listen to opposition. You have never listened to the advice of opposition, to the amendments of opposition, to the fact that you adopt the laws you then review in the turbines quickly, but not qualitatively. Voting for this is unconstitutional. We will not uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u204	Thank you. 261, Cimbaluk. Don't insist. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. We have not much left. Fuck. All right, don't insist. Cymbaluk, you won't. Mikhail Mikhailovich, don't you want to insist on handling? Please turn on the microphone. Which one? Turn on the zimbaluku microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u205	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. I would like to conclude by saying a few words about the amendment that I have been preparing for the disciplinary commission, where the bill provides for 3 – from the public to 7. We think that if there are only three representatives left on the disciplinary board from the public, and the rest will be from the DBR, of course there is some inequality here, and the impact of the public on the decision of the disciplinary commission itself is being undermined. In general, Kozemyakin expressed our position. It's very sad, but those changes don't make the law, really independent of the presidential vertical, and we can't vote for it in general. An amendment may not be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u206	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will continue our session for 15 minutes, so that we can review the bill and not postpone it during recess. Okay. I'm entitled to that, Sergey Volodymyrovich, you know. 298, Princess. Please turn on the microphone. Dear colleagues, we are approaching completion, invite the national deputies who are not in the hall to prepare for the vote. 298, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u207	Thank you. This right is about the fact that the President's approval of the Civil Control Council is beyond his mandate, because the powers of the President are clearly defined in the Constitution. I was told here that when I made the previous announcement that it was Mr. Bogdan's birthday, I think if he came to Mr. President and said he wouldn't back up, not sign the draft and not pass the rights that go beyond his authority, he would make a great gift. And we'll all welcome Mr. Bogdan and Mr. President if we don't support this bill and let the country build an autocratic state, which will then strike at them. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u208	298 decree of the People's Deputy of Knieżicky. The committee was not counted. Please identify and vote. [[11:59:53]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we approach the vote. So the way we talked about it, it went on for 15 minutes. 314 law enforcement of the Mamka People's Deputy. We're going back to her like we said. I'll bet you a vote. It's not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:00:42.]] For-97 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. He's a healer. Please turn on the microphone to the Medici. No. 93?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u209	Yes. Please reject this amendment, but it was supported by the committee. But right now, it doesn't make any sense in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u210	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u211	The committee supported this amendment, but for the judgment of the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, the author of the 93 People's Deputy Medal's Law suggests not to consider, do I understand this right? That's why I'm putting her to the vote. Please identify and vote. No. 93. [[12:01:34]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Edit is not confirmed, sorry. No, it's not. Denise Anatolyevich, last draft. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, this is about. An amendment that became essentially the essence of this law, an amendment that over the past two weeks has been extensively discussed, discussed, and amended by the lawyers of the Heavenly 100, members of the families of the victims. It's about a warrant for the transfer of investigators and prosecutors investigating the Maydan case, being investigated on November 20 by the prosecutor's office, about their transfer to the State Bureau of Investigation. In order for me to be clear, last Wednesday’s committee voted to amend the amendment in view of the fact that on November 20, the powers of the prosecutor’s office finally ceased, so we had to adjust to the time of the consideration of our amendment, our bill, this amendment. I'm going to read her final edition, and it's given to all of you by the committee. You have it, but I'll read it for the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u214	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u215	Thus: "In order to ensure the continuity and effectiveness of pre-trial investigations, prosecutors may be transferred by their consent to the State Bureau of Investigation without having to conduct a competition, if they have conducted a pre-trial investigation or legal review (not less than four months in a joint investigation group or prosecutors) in criminal proceedings in connection with events that took place during peaceful protests between 21 November 2013 and 22 February 2014 which are subject to transfer to the DBD, to the State Bureau of Investigation, but not later than 11 January 2020." End of quote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, we need to confirm this amendment. This requires 226 votes. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I'm betting on the vote number one of the additional table, it's given to you. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:04:51]] For 334 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we've gone through all the lines. We are now going to vote in favour of the law as a whole. Not during a break. I went on for 15 minutes, you know that. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Bureau of Investigation on the Improvement of the Activities of the State Bureau of Investigation (Registration No. 2116). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:05:46]] For the 250. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. People's Servant – 224, Opposition Platform – Life – 2, European Solidarity – 0, Fatherhood – 0, For the Future – 1, Voice – 18, non-fractional – 5. Thank you again. Decision taken. For five minutes, I don't think the people's deputies are tired. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u217	Dear factions, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Because, as we continued for five minutes, the audience was very busy, and how to start working on time, I do not see a great increase. I see, Sergey Volodymyrovich, what you are. And Ruslan Petrovich, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, first of all, let's welcome the students of the Sumu State Teachers' University of Makarenko. Hello! [[Applause]] Besides, with your permission, I'll read some announcements while we're going. According to the minutes of the Interfractional Parliamentary Union "Slobožanšina" of November 4, 2019, the leader of this association was elected as the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kucher. Next. An interfractional parliamentary association called World Ukraine was created. The people’s deputy Mezentsev was elected head of this association. An interfractional MP compound called Civil Security has been established in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head of this unification of Ukraine’s elected national deputy, Frez Irina Vasilovna. An interfractional parliamentary association has been set up "For Worthy Life of the Paralytic Sick". The heads of this association were elected by Ukraine’s national deputies Pipo Natalija Romanovna, Bulah Lado Valentinovna, Konstankevich Irina Miroslavovna, Ion’s Maria Mikolayovna, Lukasheva Alexandra Anatoliyovich, Scrum Olen Ivanovna, and Zuba Valerija Alexiyovich. An interfractional MP group called Mikolayevšina was created. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Kopitin Igor Volodymirovich, was elected head of this association. It's interfractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u219	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part two of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Solomon Dmitry Viktorovich, has been released from the duties of deputy head of the political party "Serve of the People". In accordance with article 147 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, I report that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has reached the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the compatibility of the bill (registration number 1015) on the amendment to article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the legislative initiative of the people and the bill (registration number 1016) on the amendment to article 85 and article 101 of the Constitution of Ukraine concerning the authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine to articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. According to part nine of article 147 of the Rules, the findings of the Constitutional Court have been handed down to you today. I would like the Committee of Legal Policy to consider the conclusions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine at its meeting. Irina Valentino Vendiktova, did you hear? Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the day - to - day consideration. You have been invited to consider the draft Ordinance on Change in the Order of the Day of the Second Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration number 2101-14). Honorable colleagues, is it necessary to discuss it, or can we vote now? Who insists on the discussion? Just "European Solidarity"? Then please write down two in a row, two in a row against the factions. Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u220	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u221	Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u222	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a totally misunderstood situation, but we work in Parliament, where there is a majority, is there just one monofraction, there is no other parliament? Why is no bill from our faction, from the faction of colleagues, in order of the day? Why aren't we looking at them? Look at the order of the day today or tomorrow. My ruling, for example, that I stopped signing the Corruption Act on Tobacco Products for the benefit of individual servants here, is a question so far, for the second month. The second month, the two months have passed, the third month is actually coming, and you can't put it to a vote. How long is this going to take? How long are you going to pretend there's only one Ze Faction in this Parliament? It's not the Ze-Parliament, it's the Parliament of the State of Ukraine, respect it and respect the electorate of all political forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, as we have just heard, I would like to point out that 36 drafts have been introduced and proposed. Of these, 15 are from the People's Party, 2 are from the Opposition Platform for Life, 3 are from the Fatherland, 2 are from the European Solidarity Party, 2 is from the Voice for the Future, 2 is from the People's Deputies, which are not part of the factions and groups, 3. I mean, 14. I think 15 times 14 is half there. Look, thanks. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u224	Your Honor, first of all, I wanted to thank you on the one hand, from our faction, that you finally included the three Bills of the Fatherland faction. One of them is about the natural gas market, where we suggested directing the natural gas of domestic production directly to Ukrainian citizens. This will significantly reduce tariffs. But at that I address you, Your Honor. I remember when you said that after a few weeks or months, you would begin to consider, including the laws of opposition. I want to remind you that "Fatherland" has registered 106 drafts in this call. Only 43 is less than half -- you've included in the agenda for committee consideration. What I'm going to say is, those bills that are previously considered by the committees, most of the committees don't deal with them, including the agrarian committee. What does that mean? This means that you simply don't give the legislative initiative to opposition MPs, including MPs from Fatherland, the right to implement, for example, the bill on increasing birth pay, the moratorium on land, the other initiatives that we have proposed during our election campaign, including the indexation of pensions, including rural pensioners. The increase in payouts for educational subsidies, we've shown her the full flow of funds. That's why we're addressing you one more time, Reverend Head. Please, it was a normal initiative when all of the bills registered by all the MPs voted and put in order of the day. And we ask you to support such an initiative and not ignore the legislative initiative of opposition deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u225	Thank you, Vadim Evgenovich. With your permission, I'll answer because you mentioned me. I would like to remind you that it is not for the Head of the Supreme Council to determine which bills are passed by the committee, and it is for the committee to decide whether or not to be included in the agenda. I think so. I think so. Yeah, that's when they get in. Unfortunately, the number of bills is slightly higher than the possibility of being considered in plenary sessions of the Supreme Council. I'm sure we'll fix this a little bit. And more, including the opposition bill, will go into the agenda. Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u226	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Speedhod Hanni. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u227	Nestor Ivanovich, once again, I don't. Surrendered?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u228	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today the White Tape Day is held in the Supreme Council. The White Tape is a global global initiative and a symbol of the fight against violence against women and girls. I urge all national deputies to wear a white ribbon today and thus accept a personal oath never to commit, not to silence, or to justify violence against women. There can be no compromise on this issue. It all begins with the superior attitude and claims of sexism about the figure and the sweet, the position through the bed, the search in the woman’s house in front of the young child. Not only do they need the protection of a woman but they also need men. Dear Andrew Herus, your shirt was torn first. When you turned your back on and sat on a gas pipe and power lines, you did not work on the committee for a week, and then on Friday evening, you moved the committee’s meetings to the basement of the Supreme Council without allowing the press and experts. I'm very worried because you have the energy independence of Ukraine in your hands, and you're afraid of provocations for oral references to the SBU. To the representatives. Your sail has not been broken, your women will save you. Here's a T-shirt with my name on it. It is a protection against glaucoma, defilement, lightness, and provocation. If you are being bullied, tear your shirt off on white ribbons and call on the women to help. Just don't do it like Yaremenko, 'cause there's gonna be trouble. And the joy of Abraham will be yours. Just remember, white on the street is snow, don't freeze your nose. Not at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u229	Thank you. Thank you, Anna. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the vote on a proposal for acceptance as a whole. Ready to vote? I would like to place a vote on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Order amending the agenda for the day-to-day second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 2101-14). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:56:52]] For 290 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You have been invited to consider the draft Ordinance on the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Kubrakov (registration number 2506). I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[12:57:37]] For 289 Decision taken. The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Savchenko Olzi Stanislavni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u230	Honorary Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, Committee at its meeting on November 27, 2019, reviewed the statement made by the Ukrainian National MP from the Party "Slut of the People" Kubrakova Alexander Mikolaiovich. The application is made in accordance with the requirements of article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies in relation to its appointment as Head of the Ukrainian State Agency for Roads. The committee decided to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree of the Supreme Council on the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy (registration No. 256) and to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u231	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose that this issue be voted on without discussion. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I am voting for a motion for a full draft decree to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy Kubrakova Aleksandra Mikolaiovich (registration No. 2506). Please support and vote. [[12:59:29]] For 329 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Ordinance on the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Kucher (registration No. 2507). I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:00:06]] For 303 Decision taken. Savchenko Olga Stanislavni gives the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u232	Thank you. At its meeting on November 27, 2019, the committee reviewed the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy from the political party "Slut of the People" Kucher Alexi Volodymirovich. The application is made in accordance with paragraph 1 of part two of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine" in connection with the appointment of its head of the Kharkiv State District Administration. The committee decided to submit to the Supreme Council a draft decree of the Supreme Council on the early termination of the powers of the national deputy Kucher (registration No. 257) and to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u233	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I also propose that we vote this issue without discussion. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Ordinance on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Kucher Aleksija Volodymirovich (registration No. 2507). Please support and vote. [[13:01:26]] For 338 Decision taken. Thank you, Olga Stanislovna. Aramiah's MP with a motive. Arahami.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, today we've been looking at the DBR Act, it's taken a little longer than we planned, and I suggest we extend and vote today to continue the work of the Supreme Council until we consider the entire agenda. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u235	Dear colleagues, there's an offer to continue our work before we exhaust our agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah. We're going to put this question to a vote, we're going to set up a room. With motive? All right, each faction with a motive. "The Opposition Platform for Life", Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u236	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, well, no one would mind working, but let's set a time. Let's say it's 20, 21 hours, 00 hours, but it's a specific time. What does that mean for the rest of the day? There's no such timing, let's set time. I'll make an offer by 8:00.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, we voted in such an editorial. And if I'm not mistaken, the various political powers have supported this proposal. That was the wording: before we exhaust the agenda of our plenary session. It's not a session, it's a meeting, Nestor Ivanovich. "European Solidarity", Heroshenko, for reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, you know, it's a shame that there is no Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic in this House. He has always taken a wise position that the less such parliaments vote, the more the benefits of the state of Ukraine. And today's vote, including for the law that creates another repressive organ, and you're going to vote on certain norms, just to prove that it is. So it's not really a question of quantity, it's a question of quality. Less and better. When's that gonna happen to you? We're offering an alternative offer. If you want to work, let's cancel the break, and we ask you to put our proposal to the vote, from 14 to 16. And at this time, including the vote on the "European Solidarity" resolution, a call to the parliaments of NATO countries for the granting of VAT to Ukraine. And we're protesting from millions of Ukrainian voters that the laws of European Solidarity do not deal with the agenda, but you're doing the graphomania and you're taking the extra time to accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u239	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. I think that there were many times in this Parliament, when, based on this logic, that the less, the better, the more beautiful it was here, because nothing was accepted. Dear colleagues, have all those desiring been motivated? Oh, no? Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Ivanovich Krulko. Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u240	Dear colleagues, we're responsible for all of our routines. We understand that there is a Conciliation Council, there are factions that sit down and form it. And we're also counting on time, which is the order of the day that the Conciliation Council will write for us every day, calculated by time, that is, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. So, in fact, we can then cancel the time frame of the Supreme Council session and just work until the agenda is exhausted, then we need to change the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why we don't understand that logic. In view of the fact that we don’t start a morning meeting or a evening meeting on time, we meet in a bad time after a break, in fact, we steal from ourselves up to half an hour or so. We are against such extensions, the permanent extension of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we ask the President of the Supreme Council to properly shape the agenda so that he can resist the time frame of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u241	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u242	You know, the suggestions that sometimes occur in this room, they remind me of the famous Lao-Tsa sensation: when laws and regulations multiply in the country, there are more robberies and robberies. So I say that we pursue, not the number of laws that are passed, but the quality that is accepted. They are better accepted one or two times a session, as is the case in many European countries, but so that these laws will work. The problem in Ukraine is that laws that are passed by parliament are not implemented and are not working. As for Parliament's work, I have a proposal to plan the work of the Supreme Council in such a way that we are able to vote for all the laws that need to be voted on for the country. So we say, let's work as hard as we can, but let's adopt the laws that people are waiting for. Why aren't we lowering tariffs? Why don't we protect state property? Why aren't we in this room making decisions about rising standards? For these laws, we are ready to work until 24 hours. And now it really is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u243	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich, for your willingness to work. Hopefully that's the way it's going to be, and all the national MPs, if they support the Arahamaia Hall, will work. It's about planning our work. We all voted in favour of the legislative work plans from next year. So I hope that all political parties and factions in this Supreme Council will abide by this law. Long Olesia Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u244	Dear Mr. Head of Parliament, honourable colleagues, today is such a different day when we all have a solidarity of respect for tolerance and say that our Parliament is modern, European, everyone has a badge or almost everyone today. I'm into tolerance. We just had a meeting with Mrs. Kondratjuk, I thank Deputy Prime Minister First, a meeting on access for people with disabilities to parliament and on the ability of our colleague Jana Zinkevich to move around this Parliament. A summary of the effectiveness of our work: it took almost six months, four months, and unfortunately we haven’t moved anywhere. And for today, we've heard, and we've ended up with the fact that if we all work together, we'll be able to get the first results in three months at best. I'd really like to talk about it in my speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u245	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u246	I'd like to thank Mrs. Oleni as your vice-speaker, and ask you personally to take this matter under control and give an additional commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u247	Thank you. Once again, I turn to the Apparat, and it is the direction of the Supreme Council, namely, Olena Condratuk. I'm sure that Helen Constantinena is a quality person. Yet I'm a little surprised to hear about the four months, the Supreme Council still doesn't work for 100 days, 90 doesn't even work, 100 days don't work. But I guess I have some errands for you a little earlier, I don't remember that, you can see that. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Look, we had two suggestions: the offer of Arahami David Georgiyovich from the political party "Slut of the People" to continue the sessions before we exhaust the order of today's plenary session; and the second proposal from Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrovna, who also proposed to cancel the break from 2nd to 4th. Do I get it right? That's right. So let's put these two questions in order of coming. And the Shufrich offer is until the 20th. Am I going to be all right if you don't mind? I'm voting on the proposal of the leader of the political party's "Serve of the People" by David Georgiyovich Arahamiya to continue today's plenary session before we fully exhaust the order of today's session. Please support and vote. [[13:10:52]] For 229 229. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next offer probably doesn't make sense to put it to 20, does it? And there's Heratchenko's offer to cancel the break from 14th to 16th. We have to put up, I think there should be suggestions. From 2nd to 4th. It was an offer to cancel break two to four. So I have to put this to a vote. No, was it an offer to cancel the break? Was it Irina Volodymyrna? Yes, there was, there was. That's why I have to put her to the vote. Dear colleagues, I'm putting a motion to the vote. No, we're asking you to pick up the transcript right now, and it's going to say cancel the break. No, cancel the break. Well, why, we can't just vote. Voting – well, not voting – is another matter. I'm betting on a vote to cancel the 14- to 16-hour break. Let's get this over with. Vasil Ivanovich, we'll finish the job sooner, but we haven't moved on to the 8th. Is there no objection? Okay. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of National Deputy Heratschenko Irina Volodymyryn to cancel the break from 2nd to 4th between the morning and evening meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support and vote. [[13:12:49]] For a hundred and Unfortunately, this proposal did not get enough, 194 people's deputies voted in favour. Show me the factions, please. Servant of the People – 132, Opposition Platform – Life – 2, European Solidarity – 19, Fatherhood – 13, Future – 3, Voice – 9, non-fractional – 11. Thank you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u248	Distinguished colleagues, distinguished national MPs! We have included in the agenda of the daily session bills of 2490 and 2490 with badge 1 to amend the Ukrainian Law on the National Commission for National Regulation in the Field of Energy and Utilities and other laws (to comply with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine). In accordance with article 101, part two and third, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to define these bills as urgent and to shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills and the conclusion of relevant committees on them. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the National Deputies. Are you ready to vote on this? Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support this requirement of article of the Rules for the recognition of these bills as urgent and to shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills. Is everyone ready to vote? Dear colleagues, are we all ready to vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u249	Dear National Deputies! David Georgievicz, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I'm betting on a vote that was just delivered by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. Please support and vote for a shorter period. [[13:15:26]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider the draft Law amending the Road Traffic Act (Registration No. 0963). The report is given to the head of the Transport and Infrastructure Committee of the Skickka Committee, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u250	Honourable Dmitry Aleksandrovich, distinguished national MPs, December 3, Ukraine celebrates the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, established by the UN General Assembly Resolution of October 14, 1992. The General Assembly called on States to further integrate persons with disabilities into society. The International Day of Persons with Disabilities is not a holiday, but it is called upon to draw attention to the problems of these people, to protect their rights of dignity and well-being, to emphasize the benefits that society receives from the participation of people with disabilities in political, social, economic and cultural life. This day is a reminder to mankind of its duty to show concern and mercy to the most vulnerable part of society -- people with disabilities. Today, a bill amending the Road Traffic Act of Ukraine on the organisation of road traffic for people moving in wheelchairs (registration number 0963 of 29.08.2019) was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and was adopted in the first reading on the basis of 04.12.2018. The bill provides for the identification of persons with disabilities in wheelchairs and their rights and obligations under the International Convention on Road Traffic, signed on November 8, 1968. In preparing the bill for the second reading of proposals and amendments from law - abiding entities, no initiative was given. The committee prepared the bill for consideration in the second reading, but in agreement with the comparative table, the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made comments that the committee had taken into account at its meeting. By decision of the Transport and Infrastructure Committee of 13 November 2019, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommended the adoption of the draft Law (Registration No. 0963) on second reading and in general. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u251	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, this bill includes all the amendments. Please prepare for the vote, take your seats. Okay. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I don't think this bill has any discussion. Therefore, I am voting for the adoption of a proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Road Traffic Act of Ukraine on the organisation of road traffic for persons moving in wheelchairs (registration No. 0963). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:19:33]] For 350. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, you have been proposed a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving tax administration, eliminating technical and logical differences in tax legislation. Bill registration number 1209, 1209-1. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:20:39]] For 234 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr. Yet, Danilo Aleksandrovich was a letter from the national deputy Kovalova about the repeal of Bill 1209-1. I understand he's recognized by the committee as such. He was recommended. So there's a proposal not to support it, right? [[General Discussion]] A letter, since the committee has recognized 1209-1 as a priority, as one that is considered a basis, we do not support the letter of the National MP, right? Because he's asking me to take it off the table. Okay. Then we put it to a vote. I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u252	I understand. It's up to the Supreme Council. Do I get it right? Yeah, yeah. When included in the agenda, he takes the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm voting on the motion to withdraw Bill 1209-1. Please identify and vote. [[13:22:29]] For-50 The decision is not taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Mr. Gettmansev Danil Aleksandrovitch – 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u253	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today we are considering with you long-awaited bills 1209, 1210, which are interconnected. The first one in the agenda is Project 1209. But I want to speak for both bills, because they are, in fact, the only system of norms that we propose to supplement both the Tax Code and other legislation. Bills are wrapped in myths, myths that are made by those who do not want to adopt these laws. Why so many stories and so many myths around these bills? Because these two bills are aimed at de-offshoring one that many governments have promised, many parliaments have not yet made. These bills are called upon to stop the schemes that exist today in big business and help to avoid paying taxes in Ukraine. What are these bills really? Absolutely positive rules aimed at establishing the State's responsibility to the taxpayer. Yes, the State will for the first time be liable in the form of fines to the payer. We complement the Code with the responsibility of the payer, and the payer will no longer be called to account without guilt, as it is now and as it was in the Middle Ages. We complement the code with circumstances that soften responsibility and relieve the taxpayer in certain circumstances. We're going to complete the tax notice with the motivational part, and we're going to know why the taxpayer is called to account, not to think about it in court later. We're going to improve the prosecution procedure, the administrative complaint, the tax notices, by introducing an appeal board to review the state tax department's decision. It's positive for the bill, some just for them. But he's still talking about something else. A bill on justice, a bill on justice = not to avoid taxing big business by creating so-called controlled foreign companies and indivisible profits from them. The bill provides for the implementation of five BEPS steps developed long ago by the OECD, which have already become part of the national legislation of many countries around the world. The bill provides for improved control of transport pricing. The bill provides for taxing the adjusted income of controlled foreign companies and strengthening the rules of fine capitalization. The bill provides for the prevention of abuse in connection with the application of double taxation treaties and prevents the avoidance of permanent representation status again in order to avoid tax evasion. The bill also provides for the review of certain taxes that we consider unfair. As we prepare for the first reading, and now that the bill has been introduced into the hall, we have to keep working on it. And we've already reached some of the conditions with regard to certain standards of trade compromise. So I'm going to read this compromise in my next draft report. As for 1209, please support the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u254	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up: two for, two for, and two for, the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u255	Please give the floor to national deputy Savechenko Olga Stanislavni, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u256	Please pass the word to Vassilevsky-Smagluk Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u257	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u258	Dear colleagues, when we went to the polls, we promised our citizens to eliminate schemes related to the use of low - income jurisdictions. From now on, Ukrainian entrepreneurs will pay taxes in Ukraine to Ukrainian pensioners and children, not to residents of the mysterious British, Virgin Islands, or Cyprus. Nor will it be possible to make profits in the form of interest and royalty. So please support this bill, which we promised our constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u259	Thank you. Grandmaster Mikola. Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u260	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, you will hear and see today, and you have already heard a lie that does not match any of the words in these two bills. I'd like to focus on the first one right now, and then we'll move on to the next one. Bill 1209 is indeed presented as a matter of improving tax administration, eliminating technical and logical disagreements. And in this part, I can only agree that, in connection with the division of the DFS into two separate services, it is true that a number of laws in force need to be amended to separate the functions of the State Tax Service from the State Customs Service. Please tell me. However, this technical bill amends up to 60 more laws that essentially change these laws. Because in the next bill, we will consider new approaches to the administration of the EU, to the administration of a part of the net profit paid by state-owned enterprises. Then we should first consider that bill and then go back to this technical one. But read how many comments our Chief Scientific Research Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made about the rest of the bills. Why are you, under the cover of technical changes, amending the Law on State Support for Agriculture, on the Customs Tariff of Ukraine, where the author cannot be in any way a national MP? This is the responsibility and responsibilities of the country, so it can only be a government, and it must be an exclusive government bill to change the harmonised system of product descriptions. I mean, the changes to the judicial congregation that you've included are unacceptable. You wrote that you don't need to change and spend any extra money on the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u261	Thank you. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u262	How, then, can we cover the costs of a judicial system that now depends on the size of this congregation? You're lowering it a hundred times.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u263	Wasilenko Lesia Volodymyrna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u264	Yaroslava.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u265	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u266	Jaroslav Ironborn.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u267	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u268	Colleagues, this bill is actually technical because we're going to be looking at the changes in the Tax Code that are essential. Before this bill, unfortunately, during the discussion, which was very long on our committee, there were many observations. One of them involved, for example, regulating the activities of state enterprises, and it was virtually unanimous to decide that this chapter should be reviewed. The same applies to other parts of the bill, which, once again, are being amended to require changes that we will vote on or not to vote on, changes to the Tax Code. Unfortunately, this bill is so large that it is not possible now, in those moments, to list all the comments to it. But we very much ask all factions, including the coalition faction, to elaborate this bill considerably so that not only does it make business and business regulation worse in this country, but it also improves tax administration, administration, in principle, business in this country. And then we can support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u269	Belkova Olga Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u270	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, very often in this Chamber the opposition MPs are slightly offended when we see the bills that we've worked on in the past cadences and without our authorship they're brought into this room and voted like a coalition faction. Don't worry, my dear, there won't be a situation like this today. I think it's one of those bills that none of the opposition's deputies can say that he's very proud of his co-authorship. I'm one of those deputies who's been actively involved in all the working groups. I went to all these groups honestly. And I think, well, just one person comes to me and says, from a business association, that this is my promise to the electorate that the economy is going to grow, that we're going to make things simpler, that something is going to simplify. My colleague, there is no letter to support this bill. That's where they put the horse and the flimsy rope, you know? There's the de-offshoring, and the ore, and the gas, and the guilt complex, and so on. No appeal against the opposition is included today. Even now, by force, we have forced the authors to return this bill to the hall. I think even the head of the committee admits that part of the rights are so questionable that we have already reached agreement on transferring them. I pay particular attention to the fact that BEPS is not involved in our closest colleagues today in Poland, Romania, and we're running ahead of the steam and we're turning them on here. And this is going to lead to a lot of factories being reoriented into the nearest countries that are going to export their production capacities to us, and that's not exactly what we promised our voters today. I urge everyone not to support and send for work on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u271	Thank you. Kubi Stepan Ivanovich, turn on 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u272	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, I have a personal letter from the Federation of Employers of Ukraine, from the professional organizations and associations that this bill is not ready for adoption. It must be returned to the committee for further work. And direct language: that the Federation of Employers of the Association of Ukraine calls on members of the Supreme Council not to support the bills discussed from the rostrum, and insists on a constructive dialogue with business on making balanced changes, which will form the basis of government-consolidated tax reform next year and individual steps in the BEPS plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u273	The motives are Danilo Aleksandrovitch. The Gethmans are motivated. Please turn on Daniel Alexanderovich's microphone. Do you have a card inserted? Princevich, please turn on the microphone. Prince Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. The thing is, I really support what my colleagues have said to the factions and speakers. In particular, my concern is the desire of the committee to reduce the coming of the judicial congregation. I'll tell you, it's very bad when it's over. I'm going to remind you of the story, when we formulated the budget, we predicted that almost 2 billion is an indicative indicator of coming to the special fund, which is foreseen, which is financed by the court's own funds. Now, actually, by deceiving both the judiciary and the public, we want to take away practically all the proceeds from this fund. This will mean a collapse of judicial authority, just after the adoption of this law. I continue to ask the committee of profile if you consider it appropriate to make any changes to the Law on the Judicial Assembly, to consult with professionals from the Legal Committee in advance, because it seems that they are people who are not at all aware of the issue of the judiciary. This will end by stopping us from accessing justice in this country.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u275	Thank you. The Gethmans are motivated. Then we go to the vote. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u276	Dear colleagues, regarding this bill. We have faced the fierce opposition of large financial and industrial groups who are certainly not interested in adopting this bill, because it will not allow them to avoid tax any further, as they did all 28 years ago. But in a war - torn country, it is immoral to avoid taxes, to move its assets out of the country immorally, to bury them there, and not to pay money to Ukraine’s state budget. I ask the MPs to support this bill in the first reading. I'm convinced that there's no norm that we can't change if there is, in fact, a mistake or a questionable thing, we're going to do it on the committee in preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u277	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, take your seats. Please prepare for the vote. Please take your seats. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving tax administration, eliminating technical and logical differences in tax legislation (registration No. 1209-1). Ready to vote? Ready to vote? I'm betting on the vote, please support and vote. [[13:40:27]] For the 250. Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. Show me the factions, please. The People's Party – 224, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 15, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 11. Thank you, the decision is made. Let us turn to the next question of the order of the day, dear colleagues. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Improvement of Tax Administration, the Elimination of Technical and Logical Differences in Tax Laws (Registration No. 1210, 1210-1). Since the bill contains more than 100 articles, the law will be considered in full discussion. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr. Daniel Alexanderovich, four minutes, yes, as well as the authors? Four minutes, just like the authors. Four minutes, please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u278	Here's 10 minutes. Okay. Dear colleagues, thank you for supporting Bill 1209 in the first reading. We've done a very good thing for the state. The related Bill 1210 is a bill that amends the Tax Code. Already today, in the process of discussing the media in working groups with business representatives, with experts, with representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the State Tax Service, we have already reached certain agreements that I will personally, as chairman of the committee, submit as rights to Bill 1210 if it is supported in the room. And I hope the committee in this will back me up to my second reading. I want to read specific amendments under the transcript. In the case of controlled foreign companies, the introduction is proposed to be carried forward to the 21st year. During the 21st to 22nd years, the minimum share in controlled foreign companies in joint ownership of several residents is 25 percent or more. To say that taxpayers are not attracted to administrative and criminal responsibility for offences involving controlled foreign companies committed during the 21st-22s. Increase the tax-free limit on KIKam from 1 to 2 million euros. KICAM verification periods, including an extension, should be limited to one year. Eliminate differences, differences in percentages, extend them only to loans from nonresidents excluding financial ones, and introduce a bond for their own capital. Exclude the rule that interest cannot be counted in the next tax period. The personal responsibility of the officials should be reinstated. Excluding an increase in the time limits of the checks, this means that all checks are made by all the operators. The rate of rent on iron ores is to be determined in terms of the size of the industry and the state. We're talking about this size today at 12 percent. Not to determine, not to change the base, but to negotiate with the industry about the tax base. Do not change the rent rates for gas extraction. The introduction of the concept of guilt to move to the 21st year. It's fine. To reduce fines to fines for KICs and TTUs, the maximum limit should be set, and they should be linked solely to the minimum of living. It is clear that an act of verification cannot be regarded as a statement of crime. Provide special provisions for reporting financial statements to companies that are required to carry out audits. Exclude the position of the advance on constructive dividends. They ruled out differences in swarms, what is being paid for the benefit of the ISI. Exclude rent adjustments in part of the gas. It's already been done. Exclude VAT changes to the import tax base. Cancel VAT tax benefit on import of energy recovery equipment. Enter taxation for electronic cigarettes and liquids used in electronic cigarettes. Integrate into the bill a position concerning a single legal person. Thank you and please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u279	Danilo Alexandrovich, wait, this is a full-time procedure. Three minutes is a question to the reporter. I'd like you to sign up for the people's deputies for a question to Getmantsev. Labunsky Angela Victorian.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u280	Please give me the word of Olga Belkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u281	Belkova Olga Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u282	Thank you. Dear Mr. Danilo, you've just read all these changes. It's obvious that you're in the same room as yourself. I'm, by the way, grateful that you publicly acknowledge that there are a number of norms that need to be addressed. But why don't you explain to me why we still didn't file the committee's parliamentary bill? Because, well, there have been many meetings that have been given promises and associations and representatives of specific fields. Today, we promise them again on a regular basis instead of demonstrating that our committee is ready to meet at night, at night, at weekends for a normal bill. Well, what we are going back to today for some procedure that is unique to this House, please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u283	Dear Olga Valentine's Day, thank you for your question. In fact, we recognized that the possibility of negotiating the bill's rules was from the very beginning, from the moment the bill was introduced to the Supreme Council. Since we are confident that such a complex bill can not be accepted in the paper in which it is introduced, it needs further discussion. And in fact, thank you, you've taken part in many of the working groups. We always went to meet business and business, and experts where the amendments were correct. As for the form that we've chosen, we have a few choices. The MP's bill was just one of them. I'm convinced that the form that we chose to take into account for the second reading is no worse and will allow us to take fully into account what we consider to be necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u284	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u285	Thank you, Mr. Head. Reverend Danilo Alexanderovich, I have a brief question. I was just among those people who were able to read this document, it's quite large -- and a comparative table, and the whole package. Me, too. There are both positive and negative sides. But I didn't see standards here that stimulate the technological development of the country. Maybe you'll tell us what the specific points of this are, and where do we find this in order to actually have the country in the right direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u286	Thank you for asking, that's a very good question. But everyone could get to know the bill. Actually, he was in open access. Yes, it's big, it's complicated, but it doesn't deprive anyone of reading complex texts, if possible. In support of the domestic industry, and we're working on these proposals, we think it's possible to include in the second reading an amendment on accelerated depreciation of certain species. Some groups of essentials. First. And the second. Amendment to exemption from VAT on imports of machinery that is not produced in Ukraine. These are two amendments that I think are most appropriate for inclusion in the text of this bill. We've discussed this on the committee right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u287	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Please sign up for the factions for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u288	Please, from the "European Solidarity" faction, National Deputy Honcharenko Alexiyyovich. Eugene Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u289	Dear colleagues, wait. It's not a two-in-a-row machine, it's a two-in-a-row machine, it's a faction. And the people's deputies who didn't sign up. It's not a shortened procedure. So please do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u290	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u291	I get it, fine. Let's write again, "European Solidarity" will act. Once again, please list all the factions who wish to speak. All signed up, all wanted? "European Solidarity", Nina Petrovna Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u292	Dear colleagues, I'd like to speak with great respect and respect, but what has just been said on another occasion from the rostrum does not allow me to do so. Unfortunately, this bill is really big in size, and combined things that needed to be accurately developed into different drafts of the law. And most of you, you could have accepted from this one large array of unnecessary texts four bills that would have worked on the committee and that would have registered as finalized or worked out. But I have the impression that if you're talking and you're calling on society here to understand that this is a bill that's going to fight offshoring, you're wrong because you didn't do de-offshoring, and we did. And these bills, including controlled foreign companies and changes in transfer pricing, have been published since April 2016, and this should be a separate bill. You've connected your dissertation ideas to it, which have already died, in fact, and the possibility of application in practice, and you're now in this bill. Why are you doing this, please? Since when will the tax authority re-establish its own judgment in the actions of the payer of guilt, intention, activity, inactivity, and any other conclusions that we had in our system, the methodical instructions issued by the DFS, possibly 7 years ago? We're going back to the system that was seven years ago that we cleaned up and we're not giving a chance, except the court's decisions, to talk about whether the payer knew about it, whether it was a farm operation, whether it was a fictitious idea, whether it was a bad idea, whether it was a tax payer acting on purpose. This is now, I repeat, the sick idea of some person who has combined important and necessary things for Ukraine into this text that we are now looking at with you. Please tell me why we're talking right now about one of the novels of this bill, by the way, you're not canceling it, you're not reading it right now under the transcript, you're canceling the consequences of applying tax advice by the taxpayer. We've beaten and cleaned this rule so that all individual consultations can be posted on the DFS or Minfin site, so that everyone can see that every particular payer gets an answer to his question and uses it in the tax system when applying and calculating taxes. You're canceling now the most business-friendly point that's become transparent for our authority, which we've changed, and they're being used by thousands of taxpayers. Why are you doing this? I don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u293	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u294	I'm not talking about the next thing. Why did you put together in this bill these resource payments that you just called, cancel something, and do something?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u295	Thank you. Murmich Anatoly Petrovich. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u296	Thank you, Your Honor. The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, the high-ranking head of the profiling committee, we have repeatedly discussed Law 1210 with you. But you know, perhaps the end of this discussion has been brought to an end today by people who have come under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Will our faction support the rent increase? Of course it will. Because the Nadar belongs to the people of Ukraine. And we think that those nadars that are being extracted and then not being processed in the future, 50 percent of their market value should be paid to the state budget of Ukraine. And that'll be fair. Then we will really feel that the Nadar belongs to the people of Ukraine. Part of this is addressed in Bill 1210. Although we do not consider it enough, it also protects some of the interests of individual oligarchic groups. As far as the structure of this law is concerned, we have repeatedly asked, and you see, my position coincides with the positions of other factions, to divide the issue of raising and establishing a fair rent with other money on the pressures and limitations of our entrepreneurs. Not only do you think they want to hide their profits in offshores, but mostly those people who are now coming to the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of course, we have to raise the rent on the gas that is extracted for further sale to commercial structures. But I don't think the issue of gas rent, which is being delivered to our population, has the right to exist because this gas still belongs to the people of Ukraine. I saw the Mappet Show when I got to the President's Office of Banks looking for ways to make gas and tariffs cheaper for people. A thousand dollars is the cost of national gas production. Another 1200 bucks for the development fund. Another 10 percent for profitability, VAT. And here you have 3,000 to 3,200 dollars is the price of gas. If you want to lower the gas for the people, do it not at meetings, but really make people feel it in their receipts, in their bills. Then you will really feel that you are servants of the people. And yet you are servants of the oligarchs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u297	Thank you. Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u298	Dear colleagues! Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. I spoke twice from this rostrum, urging me not to do anything stupid, taking 1053 and 1073. Now these people are standing before Parliament. They've already been to the President. IFO is now being created for the People's Servants initiative: let's fix it here, help the FOPs. They did not need to get involved and make a life that led them to the streets today. With this bill, you will also take Ukraine's mining and enrichment complex, Ukraine's gas pipelines, and Ukraine's entire middle business into the street. They're raiding and unfair laws. I'll explain why. And the important thing is that even the style of submission and entry into the hall of this bill is wrong and unfair. This bill 1210 by our committee, where I have the privilege of working, has not been passed or approved. Another Bill of Tyre 1 was produced, the author of which wrote a letter of appeal. Today we are considering a bill that is not supported by a committee. What's more, there was an official promise that everyone on the committee, heads of the committee, would see that we would work out and make a normal bill so that there wouldn't be any 3-minute readings here that we'd be changing. Believe me, after all these tricks, I'm sorry, but no one believes that when they promise to amend the bad draft of the first reading to the second, and then we see that all the disgrace that was in the first one remains in the second. What the bill introduces is essentially. First of all, it's a presumption of taxpayer's guilt. It's a draconian bill for business. And all these stories about how we're training something. I'm just trying to give you a simple example of what a controlled foreign company is. If a Ukrainian who was unable to live and work here because of the leadership of the state, went to Poland and worked there in Poland, registered the company, and there he grows apples, but remains a citizen of Ukraine and then pays taxes there, he has to report it here. And if the difference between paid there and here taxes is too great for him, he has to come and pay more here. So, citizens, if. And, colleagues, let's think smart. Because today, tens of thousands of created jobs are behind this decision. And it's decided that, by a voluntary decision on the gas that we were promised to make amends, we understand that the motivational rate of gas production on the new wells is cleaned by this bill. We've included the largest number in the last two years of foreign investors' companies in this sector. Do we want to be an energy-dependent state or do we want to buy gas in Russia? What is your strategy, please explain. And such laws should be made, with all due respect, not by the MPs, but by the government. Because it's supposed to be the basis of a government program. And the government has to explain how and how it's going to fill the economy and how taxes are going to be collected. It's murder.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m0.u299	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 14:01. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I remind you that the evening session will begin at 4:00, and we will continue the consideration of Bill 1210. Thank you.
