ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u1	Good morning! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please take up your jobs, colleagues. So I'd like you to run the registration. Please register. [[10:02:23]] 343 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Volodymyrovna Heratshenko. Mrs. Irina, welcome to your birthday! Success, strength, inspiration and victory, Mrs. Irina! [[Applause]] And today is the birthday of our colleague, the fighting national deputy, Andrija Anatoliovich Teteruk. Welcome to Mr. Andrey's birthday. [[Applause]] Success, victory, Mr. Andrew. Congratulations! And, colleagues, I remind you that on Wednesday, 30 minutes for speeches by national deputies. So I ask all those who intend to participate in the discussion and the presentations to sign up for the talk from the rostrum. Please. Peaceable Ivan Mikolaiovich, please. Pauline Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u2	The citizens of Ukraine, the Opposition Platform for Life, insist that not only the President of Ukraine, who leaves his post, but also the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine go into history. In five years, the only thing they've done is endless war, the poverty of Ukrainian families, divisions and opposition in Ukrainian society. In the last election, citizens made it clear to all the government's Red Card team. Every day the work of today’s Supreme Council of Ukraine creates only new problems for Ukrainians. The country needs a new parliament that will solve the problems of people who will have confidence in Ukrainian citizens. But before we go, in the last few plenary weeks left for today's Supreme Council of Ukraine, "The Opposition Platform for Life" insists on considering those bills that are a requirement of our electorate, which are of paramount importance to each Ukrainian family. In particular: 9403 - Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Natural Gas Markets (for pricing and non-admission to increase prices and tariffs for natural gas); 9227 - on debt write-off for pensioners, disabled persons, multiple families for natural gas supply, central heating, hot water, electricity; 4794 - Draft Law on the Status and Social Protection of Peaceful Civilian Citizens affected by the conduct of an anti-terrorist operation; 6510 - on amending certain laws on strengthening the social protection of children who have suffered as a result of hostilities and armed conflict; Draft Regulation on the enforcement of constitutional rights of citizens who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster; 6510 - On the adoption of the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court of Justice on the implementation of social protection of children; and 10 on the protection of social security of children through the implementation of the Constitution. A whole series of other bills that we believe are to be the chief in the work of the Supreme Council and related to the problems that concern every Ukrainian citizen today. Please consider my statement as an official parliamentary request to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I demand a reasonable answer as to why these bills are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u3	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u4	Why are these bills, which await Ukrainian citizens, not kept in the agenda of the Supreme Council for a long time? "The opposition platform for life" insists on their first consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u5	Thank you. And, please, Oleg Lazko is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. In my hands is the report of the Court of Auditors on the efficiency of the use of public budget funds allocated to the Ministry of Health in 2017-2018. This report, I very much ask all national MPs and law enforcement authorities to get to know him. In this report, terrible figures show the inefficient use of funds. In particular, in 2017-2018, nearly 12 billion dollars were allocated for the purchase of drugs. How they're used: oncology for adults is 26 percent, cardiovascular treatment is 31 percent. The money is spent, the purchase is not done, and the highest level of death is oncology, cardiovascular disease, and there is no cure. This year's state-of-the-art drugs have not yet been purchased at the expense of the state budget for cancer and oncohematological diseases, which were allocated in 2018. Millions of medicines have been disposed of, and the expiration date has passed. The state buys, spends money, buys drugs, they lie down, then passes the expiration date -- and they're disposed of. And people who go to pharmacies in the hospital say there are no drugs. And the last thing people have to do is get out of the house in order to heal. At this time, millions of warehouses rot equipment, drugs rot, and then they disappear, and then they are disposed of. For 47 million dollars, medicines are purchased for cancerous children, with restrictions on their use for children in medical instruction. 50 million dollars was bought for cancer patients, and it turns out that these drugs can't be used. The silence of the government, the silence of power, is actually part of these crimes. Millions of Ukrainians cannot buy drugs because of their expensiveness. The Ministry of Health brings billions of people abroad, spends them ineffectively, then dispose of them because they don’t give them away to people, they probably wait for bribes to be given. I demand that Parliament immediately review the report of the Head of the Court of Auditors on the results of the audit of the use of the State budget. I demand from the government today that the decision to release Uljana Suprun from office as head of the Ministry of Health be taken immediately. The law enforcement authorities should investigate the results of the report. And all are in prison, those who steal life and health from Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u7	Thank you. Please welcome the People’s Deputy Wilkul. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u8	Dear people of Ukraine! Yesterday, the speaker, Andrey Parobius, still sold and signed a provocative language law. However, the struggle for a normal life is not over. We continue to defend the constitutional rights of millions of Ukrainians, and this is not a struggle against the national language, but against the prohibition of people from speaking any other language. In accordance with article 10 of the Constitution, the State provides free development, use, and protection of Russian and minority languages. The language law adopted on April 25 is in direct contravention of this standard. We refer to the Constitutional Court, which may repeal this law, which we have already collected the 45 signatures of the National Deputies. We can't let today's President, Dusty and Paris split up Ukraine because of their whims any way to leave their ratings. Another painful question. Naftogaz continues to be bullied. While you're working on the country's fragmentation, it's been reported that Naftogaz raises the price of gas for the population again from June. This is because on November 1, 2018, the price of gas has already increased by 23.5 percent and since 2014, nearly ten percent. At the same time, people were not better off living, most of them barely making ends meet. We demand that Parliament immediately consider a petition for a reduction in the price of gas, which Naftogazu is prohibited from raising the price. And you don't have to tell stories about the fact that tariffs can't be lowered. Ukrainians have to pay no more than 15 percent for the utility station, not 60-80, as they are now. All it takes is the political will to put an end to the corruption schemes of Naftogazu, to give up the import gas, and to increase its production. And these are real steps that you could have taken yesterday. And at the end of the day, I don't know what kind of president Vladimir Zelensky will be, and nobody understands that, but we have to respect the choice of the people and set the date of the inauguration. Personally, I will vote on the date of the inauguration of May 19. As the people say, "You don't breathe before you die." Leave the country alone and go. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u9	Thank you. The National Deputy Nemirowski is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u10	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good day to the Ukrainian people! Dear Madam Chairman! Another year ago, I and the copyright team, together with 27 other people's deputies from all factions and groups that are non-fractional, were introduced by Bills 8613, 8614: on amending the Ukrainian Law on Pension Insurance for Persons Released from Military Service and Some Others on Recalculation and Remuneration of Retired Pensions for Certain Categories of Citizens. The National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been appointed chief of the bill (8613, 8614). The main scientific and expert management drew up a conclusion on November 27th of the 18th. The bill recognized an extraordinary resonance among former military personnel and others, as well as among the special composition of this special category of members of their families. The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Police, the National Guard, the State Border Service, the State Service of Ukraine, the State Service for Emergency Situations, and the veteran community of Ukrainian law enforcement and security forces support the recognized bill, since it refers to the future of the entire military force and some others who are now serving in dangerous conditions, protecting the people and Ukraine, losing their health every day, and sometimes to the great regret and present. I'll inform you that the first drafts mentioned above were discussed at the committee meeting on December 19th, but because the quorum had changed, the bill had been suspended. On another occasion on April 24, the bill was reviewed and then submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration. But what a surprise it was for the veteran community and all the public associations when these bills began to be reviewed and put on the committee on May 15th, today. How many of these bills that have already been put before the Supreme Council can be discussed? When the committee comes to a conclusion in accordance with article 111 of the Ukrainian Law. Oh, the Supreme Council Rules? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u11	Thank you, Mr. Nemirowski. People's Deputy Kremen is invited to attend, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u12	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Ladies and gentlemen, for the last time, we have all become the center of an image that the Supreme Council, as if unable, is unable to unite and make decisions that are favorable to Ukraine. But I would like to remind and thank my colleagues, first of all, for what we did in fact was extremely much in the last day alone. First of all, it was actually signed by the prodigal, exodus law of Ukraine, "On ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language", which is the result of a long-standing struggle for a constitutional rule, which unfortunately has not been supported in recent years and in previous calls by the Ukrainian Parliament. This is extremely important for the development of all spheres: education, science, culture, and state building. It is very important that Parliament was united yesterday, and we were able to support the development of vocational higher education. And even though there have been battles around co-authors of various initiatives, I think that the adoption of such an important law as a basis is a huge support for our colleges and technicians, it's support for colleges, it's support for that level of education, which is essentially a senior component of the Ukrainian economy, and it's a huge signal for Ukraine, and for the entire civilized world. And I want to say that we're not going to stop at that, including the Committee on Science and Education, because we're going to be looking at a strategy today to accelerate the review of the bill on full general secondary education that we're looking at in the regions. But I would also like to mention other details that should be taken over by local authorities. We know that not at a high rate today, but there's still a reduction in the turn for gardening, and we know today what huge resources, multibillion-dollar investments are spent on financing educational institutions, including education subsidies that help our children get better conditions and better education in education institutions. I mean, literally a month ago, Dniper had the first Education Reform Coordination Council in recent years to address these and many other issues, including the inefficient distribution of education subsidies. So I would like to say that we have areas that are the first to demonstrate high examples of their activities, and unfortunately, those that are unfortunately the epicenter of criticism. So what I want to say in my speech is what I want to form as a parliamentary request. I appeal to Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman to conduct a service examination of the level of negligence of the Mikolai government in part of the distribution of educational subsidies. This is not the case when the money in the treasury accounts from the February month, and the situation for today, is still unallocated. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u13	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u14	So I hope that the Ukrainian Parliament will support more than one reform today, and this week, and in the coming months, before autumn. Therefore, I hope that our Parliament is effective. Let's work to win Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u15	Thank you. Please welcome Mrs. Sotnik, the national deputy. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u16	Thank you, Madam Chairman, for the opportunity to speak. Yesterday, I think all Ukrainian citizens observed a situation that unfolded very quickly in the Constitutional Court when the Head of the Constitutional Court was actually changed. Today we have Mrs. Natale Chaptal as the new Head, which, in principle, will lead to the oath of the newly elected President. But I would like to talk not about the process of electing the Head of the Constitutional Court, because it is clear that Parliament has no right to intervene in these matters and this is purely organizational matters of the Constitutional Court itself. But I would like to draw your attention and attention to the citizens that this is nothing more than a symbol of the impunity, irresponsibility and inaction of the previous authority: the Attorney General, Mr. Lucenk, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, the Ukrainian Security Service. I would like to remind you that the judge in question is one of those who took the decision of the Constitutional Court, which allowed Yanukovich to receive additional powers and actually led to the usurpation of power. After that, in 2015, the Attorney General's Office violated criminal conduct for. According to the fact that the decision was taken and resulted in the actual usurpation of power. The Ukrainian Security Service also violated criminal conduct in 2015 for the capture of State power by the former President in an unconstitutional manner, as well as the likely abuse of the judges of the Constitutional Court by their official position. So today, I have a question for the Attorney General, I have a question for the Ukrainian Security Service: where are the results of criminal conduct? Where are the results of the investigations into these resonance events that actually led to the fact that there was Maidan, that there was blood, that was Janukovich, and that there was actually a usurpation of power in Ukraine? It's nothing. Why not? Because it was classic. A classic example of how the presidents, as commanders of the Ukrainian Security Service, created loyal men for themselves. "You don't want a criminal case -- work for us," this is a powerful example of how this power has worked for the last five years, and today it gets a rematch of the previous criminal authority in the form that the Head of the Constitutional Court becomes a person who has a direct bearing on the criminal decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Oleno. And I'd like to make a statement to the People's Deputy Barna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u18	Christ Voscres! The President of Ukraine, this composition of the Supreme Council and the government have chosen a course to NATO and collective security. We chose a European course of development, we chose a course away from Moscow, from famines, repressions, gulags, wars and deaths! We have chosen to defend our independence, to defend our land, to build a large, kind Ukraine with our canonic Ukrainian Orthodox Church, with our Ukrainian state language and our powerful expansion of the Ukrainian army. President Jean-Claude Juncker of the European Commission, as well as other world leaders, praised the efforts of President Peter Poshenko of Ukraine, as well as the Supreme Council, to protect Ukraine's interests and European civilisation. But now more than ever there is a threat to the counter-revolution of the oligarchate and the Kremlin because of the distinction between the majority system of elections, where the election of MPs, candidates, nominations will be placed on the heads of the parties that will vote in accordance with the assemblies for those candidates to be held. And that's why it looks cynical when, in fighting for the rights of the people, the common people, these political leaders take directly from them, the direct right to choose a specific MP, who has to be accountable to the very specific ones, to their constituents, not to the party leaders, who lead the owners or most of the oligarchs. So 90 percent of the population in Ukraine doesn't trust any political power, which means we have to take an example from England, the United States and France, where in the whole party system of civil development, there is actually a major election system. But if we are concerned about our children and the future of our nation, which should be intelligent, patriotic, and healthy, we should certainly pay attention to Bill 4682 on the mandatory feeding of children, all children in schools, because the nation is smart and patriotic when it is healthy, when there is someone to protect our country and work for the benefit of our Ukraine. Bills on the protection of teachers: moral, psychological, social and material, in particular with regard to the establishment of a fixed 30-percent pay for prestige, and the provision of mandatory extra payments and bonuses to teachers who have prepared the winners, the winners of the district, the all-Ukrainian and the international Olympics. And the people are waiting for the pledges made by the newly elected President of $4,000 in salaries to teachers, $1,000 in pensions, landings, and the continuation of the EU and NATO course.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u19	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u20	And we, as the electorate of the people, must control it and demand it accordingly. And we must all understand together that the honor of the nation begins with respect for the teacher. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u21	Thank you. And the National Deputy Ivchenko is invited to the floor. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u22	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, yesterday Julia Volodymyrna spoke of the reinstatement of power. She spoke of the changes that are so urgent today. Why did she say that? I'll give you an example from just one sector of Ukraine, from the agrarian. 2015 — Who Does Not Remember? The Supreme Council, the coalition, abolished a special tax regime for agrarians, washed 26 billion. You're talking about decentralization, so let me tell you, the base tax in the village is the only tax that the coalition has raised 39 times. In 2016, the coalition gave away 4 billion so-called quasi-accumulations, and you all know who they got to. They reached nearly half of the country’s two large agrarian oligarchs. Last year, 2.3 billion failed to reach a farmer, no farmer, because the coalition decided to redistribute it for other purposes. I'm not talking about total corruption in Dergeokadastra anymore. Anyone who encounters land relations knows and understands what is happening directly in the land. Colleagues, if you ask today every agrarian and every peasant, whether they're better off living, it's a definite answer -- no. Colleagues, no. And believe me, if you ask every branch and you go through every so-called reform proposed by the coalition, you will see that the country needs a new agenda. They should be in the country. The country should propose other changes. What we're talking about today is that we're talking about rebooting the government and every minister, and we need to make an inauguration as soon as possible. Colleagues, President Zelensky received unprecedented support from the people of Ukraine, 73 percent. We talked yesterday about putting the day's issue of the inauguration of the new President into order so that we could hear a new agenda so that we could start the changes that the Ukrainians voted for. Colleagues, we insist again today that the regulatory committee make a decision and tomorrow morning we proceed to set the date of the inauguration for the number that the new president wants today. Let's make some changes. Let's reload this order of days that we've lost so in vain over the last five years.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u23	Thank you. Please welcome the People’s Deputy Papiew. Mr. Mikhaillo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u24	Thank you. You know, this Supreme Council of Ukraine has been completely disgraced by the people, because it does not deal with important social issues or with the protection of people in terms of medical care. But here's what happened yesterday. Yesterday, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with such "ponts," he signed something there, calling it, he signed the Ukrainian Act "On Ensuring the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language." I have a call today from the National Cultural Associations of Romanians in Ukraine, the National Cultural Associations of Hungarians in Ukraine and they ask, "Dear National Deputies of Ukraine, give us an opportunity to read the text of a law signed yesterday with such a paphosus by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." You know, there's no law anywhere! That's a table, that's what. And I'm speaking for the transcript right now because we signed a petition to the Constitutional Court. And coming out of the events and the actions he's doing. Or the inaction of the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we will also have to turn to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine for actions that may contain signs of fraud. The table that was handed out for second reading, and I told everyone about it, there was no committee editing at all. After that something was voted by the Ukrainian national deputies, after which something was glued together, and signed yesterday by the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I have a question: Mr. Paris, what did you sign yesterday? Show text at least. Here we are, the 423 national deputies of Ukraine. Show the text to Ukrainian citizens who would see that it is a law that does not ensure the functioning of the Ukrainian language. It is a law that prohibits the operation of Russian, Hungarian, Romanian, Crimean Tatar, Bulgarian. It's a completely criminal law. This is a law that does not meet European principles, European standards. We've called for a requirement that, in view of the fact that we have an Association Agreement with the European Union, which provides that such important laws cannot be put to the vote unless they have reached the conclusion of the Venice Commission. Where is the conclusion of the Venice Commission? None. You're just totally into political fraud here. And I'm confident that the new Ukrainian Attorney General's Office will give a proper assessment of these actions, because these are actions that do not correspond to the high status of the Ukrainian national deputy and the status that is provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, which we are representatives of the Ukrainian people, we made an oath. And I'm sure that in the actions that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is doing, there are signs of a breach of oath, there are signs that may contain fraud. We will address all organs. And we urge you, let's be honest and let's go to the elections, and let the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u25	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u26	Let the Ukrainian people prove to whom he trusts. And, Your Honor, one more thing. Well, it's just a laugh: it's already 7 decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm not saying they're registered wrong. But, well, let's make a decision on the date of the inauguration of the President of Ukraine. Do not be afraid of the Ukrainian people, do not be afraid of elections. Do not be afraid, go, and let people say whether they trust you or not. I think people will show you their finger on the door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u27	Thank you, Your Honor. And the people's deputy Lušnjak is invited to the floor. Please, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u28	Good day, Ukrainian people, reverend Supreme Council, presiding lady. For many years, political parties have come with loud slogans to the elections -- the fight against corruption. They're fighting corruption, and they can't fight it, and they can't fight it, because decentralization is the key to fighting corruption. Today, the Supreme Council adopted, in 2015, an irreversible course for decentralization. And our duty today is to complete it in Ukraine so that in the 20th year there will be the completion of a united territorial community, so that most of them will fall away, and there will be no such function as the district administrations that we have experienced from the Soviet authorities. The core of the district administrations themselves will be discarded, and district executions will be created. The creation of a community and a district council is all the function that will be in our territories. Today, we have seen where the inefficient use of community leaders or community funds in the budgets of the community, of calling off the head of the community. Today it's easier to change the leadership of any united territorial community or district council than to remove the immunity from the MPs. The whole essence of the Supreme Council will be gone, the whole essence of the President will be gone today, and this pillar of corruption, which we are discussing today, and we are spending so much time on it, creating law enforcement. This Supreme Council has already put in place five additional measures to combat corruption. What's the result? None. The result will be when we decentralize, when we create unified territorial communities that will enable us to develop a small, medium - size business. And only then will the economy function. Because the foundation of each house begins with a foundation. And the united territorial community in Ukraine is this very foundation -- the foundation of statehood, the foundation of the economy. And not the Supreme Council will create jobs and political forces, but the united territorial communities that today will fight for the investor, for the budget, for the development of local budgets. And we have to give them the opportunity to develop these budgets. Today, there are 60 percent of the PDFs in local budgets, and it needs to be increased to 80 percent. An increase in wages for useful mines. Increase in excise duty. And today, as no one else, it is the unified territorial communities that can complete all of these reforms — education, medicine, and education reforms — and become the foundation that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u29	30 seconds to complete. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u30	Which is what Ukrainian society needs right now -- building a strong state like Switzerland, other successful countries. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, last performance. Please, National Deputy Mishchenko. Aren't you planning on performing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u32	Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today, citizens are still being bullied by so-called "Firtasha sieges." You know, there are 14 frauds today that add illegal rates to our citizens' payments. They don't care that the NCREKP, which carried out the verification of those 14 lies, including Kiwoblgazu, has fined them millions of dollars. Because to them, these millions of fines are equal to 1 penny for an ordinary person. They're collecting billions with these payments. Yesterday, the NCREKP stated that it would go again to verify that these frauds were to be checked to see if they were removed from the payments because the payments would go after May 18 or if the coefficients of these payments had been removed. But I have a different question. NCREPT young people in this situation are fined. But they have the maximum fines they can give, such lies, orders. But the question is, where do we have the Antimonopoly Committee, which is able to fine tens, hundreds of times, hundreds of millions of dollars of these bribes? Where is the government of Groysman, who should explain and make every effort not to be afraid of blackmailing people? Because today, all the agents of these scams on the spot, including in my district, are going to scare people that you're going to be deprived of subsidies, that you're going to be shut down for these gas bills. They're all being blackmailed by those grandparents who go and pay. Yes, I explain in my district, but everyone is afraid. Or to believe Mishchenk didn't pay for it, that it was illegal donations, or to believe those blackmailers were lying. So I urge Groysman, Revu, and all other ministers who are up to date to explain to people whether they will be deprived of subsidies for these illegal donations, or for illegal disconnection, or for the warning that they will be dismissed for these remittances. And everything I do today is make these illegal donations go away from these payments, or then in the election of the new party of the Groysman, I'm going to say everything that people think about him, and you can count to zero in my district.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, therefore, are finished speaking from the national deputies. And, colleagues, I want to tell you the logic of today. In order of the day, proposed laws are supported by all factions who are to unite the hall, according to previous consultations. But according to the first law, the author is the national deputy of Žolobecki Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich is asking that this law be transposed, so we'll start with the next 9523. And I have a statement to make, Mr. Palamarczuk and the committee members, perhaps today at the end of the day we would have passed the law on the D.B.I., passed all the amendments and voted tomorrow morning. Think for an hour or two, think about this proposal, because it might be a very good signal for the D.B.I. Act, so that we can go through all the revisions within half an hour -- 40 minutes. I see that there's Olena Sotnik, Mustafa Najem. And tomorrow we wouldn't have wasted so much time. We actually have tomorrow, I hope there's a committee today, and we're going to be discussing the inaugural issue first, but we could finish the D.B.I., vote the D.B.I., it's going to be a high level of concentration in the morning, and then we're going to go to the Act on the inauguration date. So I'm asking you to consult for an hour or two. If such a proposal is accepted, we can work effectively and effectively today in the discussion, work on all the details of this law, and tomorrow at a high concentration, we can adopt it. Ask for advice, think about the right-wing authors and the committee, and let me know, please. It's a deal, isn't it? So we are going to consider the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act on the Final and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the Amendment of Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Strengthening of the Social Protection of Children and the Support of Families with Children (No. 9523). I am the first to put to the vote the motion for a reduced procedure. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[10:43:10]] For-58 The decision is not taken. And that's why we're going into full procedure. And I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Social Policy Fedorovich Natalija Volodymyrovn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the draft act is designed to ensure the rights of children to education in the family environment. During 2016-2018, an experiment was conducted in Ukraine with the patronage of the child. The purpose of this service is to provide temporary care for children who find themselves in difficult circumstances in the home of professional caregivers. In order to ensure the implementation of this service, a number of legal and regulatory acts have been amended and added to the Ukrainian Budget Code. In fact, the formation of foster families began in the second half of 2017. Funding for child custody was financed by subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the payment of state social assistance to orphans and children deprived of parental care, cash provision to foster parents and foster parents and social services in foster homes of the family type and foster families on the basis of the principle of "money goes to the child", the payment of services and the provision of child care and social assistance to support a child in a foster family. The development of a network of foster families and the provision of appropriate services is ensured, inter alia, in the context of the implementation of the National Strategy for the Reform of the Institutional Care and Raising System for 2017-2026, which was approved by the Government on 9 August 2017. In the light of this Act, "On amending the Ukrainian Budget Code" continued until 2026 on 22 November 2018 to finance the patronage of State budget subsidies. The draft law, which was put forward for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, provides for the continuation of an ongoing experiment by 2026, i.e. the period of implementation of the National Strategy for Reforming the Institutional Care and Raising System and in accordance with the amendments adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the end of last year to the Ukrainian Budget Code. In view of this, the Ministry supports the proposal of the Committee on Family and Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism to delete section II, paragraph 2, of the draft law and other editorial details. In view of the foregoing, we ask that the draft law be adopted by the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism as a basis and as a whole. The adoption of the draft act will contribute to the development of new services for children and families with children in united territorial communities and to the acceleration of the process of transforming the Internet for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u35	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the question. And given that the deputy minister has saved time to present the bill, we'll give you 10 minutes to ask. Please. Please, Mr. Sporish, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u36	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winnitzkin, 15th District. You know, of course, the bill is very important today. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, of course, handed it over for today. And it's very common that it's set right on Wednesday, where there are few national deputies in the hall today. But I think we have to do everything today to be able to adopt this bill. Of course, as you said before, it's a European form, of course, it's the new services that are needed to raise these children who don't have a place to live, and so on. I think we should do this one day. Do you think that this bill will not be adopted so that the MPs can realize once and for all that this bill is so necessary today, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u37	Thank you for your support and support for the committee. This is really a very important draft of the Law, and we would very much like it to be adopted today. A few digits of the name. On May 1, 2019, there are 90 foster families in Ukraine with 350 children from 20 regions of Ukraine. Another figure is that 45 percent of the children in foster homes are returned to a biological family. And this is a key task, and it is very important that children who are in foster care families are not then brought back to their home institutions, to their homes, but to their families. It's important, it's a key problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u38	Thank you. Please, the next question is Mr. Kurilo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u39	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! "Peter Prashenko's Block" will support this bill with all available force. Everyone knows today that perhaps the biggest problem in Ukraine is the demographic problem. And what we have today is a disaster. This bill is one of the small particles to improve perhaps demographics, although it does not solve all these issues. I have a specific question for you as to the deputy minister of social policy: what is our ministry planning to submit to the Supreme Council, which bills that would improve demographics, improve birth rates in Ukraine, stimulate birth rates in Ukraine? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u40	For example, when it comes to the issue of orphans and children deprived of parental care, we also expect the very near adoption of a draft law that has already been introduced, which relates to the use of state budget subsidies for the housing of orphans and children deprived of parental care, in particular, of orphans and children deprived of parental care, who are trained in higher education institutions that are 18-23 years old. We think it's a very important task, because it's one of the very serious problems faced by orphans, children deprived of parental care, who end up in higher education -- it's a very frequent absence of housing for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, have all been able to sign up for the interviewer’s question? Thank you, Mrs. Natal. You can go back to the government's bed. And the word for the report is given to the honourable colleague John Sporish. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u42	Ivan Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Honorable Presidium, honourable national deputies, of course, we are considering a rather important bill today. And again, just like I was asking the Ministry of Social Policy that very few of us were in the room. At its meeting, the Committee considered a draft Act amending Chapter I of the Act on the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Strengthening of the Social Protection of Children and the Support of Families with Children (Registration No. 9523), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill proposes that by December 31, 2026, the child - care experiment, i.e. the financing of the pay of the guardian’s services and the payment of social assistance for the maintenance of the child in the home of a foster parent, be continued at the expense of the State budget subsidy. The Chief Apparatus Science Administration supports the adoption of the project on the basis of some technical observations. I believe that the State and local authorities are not sufficiently exploiting the potential of foster families. In two years, about 100 such families were created. We believe that children whose parents temporarily need children in difficult circumstances have to be treated with domestic violence. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a whole with the following technical changes: paragraph 2 of the “Principal Provisions” of the bill should be deleted, since the paragraph provides for proposals by the Government to amend the budget code of Ukraine, but the corresponding changes to the budget code have already been made in November last year. It also amends the term of the experiment to paragraph 2 of the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on strengthening the social protection of children and supporting families with children, where the term of the experiment has already been defined, rather than adding a new paragraph 2.1 to which it is proposed to continue the bill. The supply figures are just these little remarks that I said where the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration said. That's why I'm asking all the MPs to join the debate on this bill, because that's pretty important. This is what we have in Europe as a service to provide these children. We have heard that 45 percent of them return to their families after a protective upbringing. I think this is really an example, this is what's being done in Europe, this is if we're going to Europe, we also have to introduce it to ourselves, and we now have it and it's being implemented. I want to say that it's very difficult for children in boarding schools, and we understand that very well, to be raised. In a foster family, they receive much better training. And so I would like to ask all the national MPs again: please take part in the discussion, and let's do everything we can to ensure that our children are orphans, children deprived of parental care, and so on -- this category of children so that they can grow up in normal foster families. Please support this bill as a whole. And I think we're going to take part in the discussion, and let's do everything we can to come to the hall and vote in favour of this bill by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u43	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum. So we give 10 minutes to ask the reporter. Colleagues, please sign up. Please, Taras Kremen, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u44	Taras Kremen, People's Front. We know that in recent years there has been a process from the so-called deinstitutionalization of residential institutions. Unfortunately, it lasts quite slowly, and unfortunately, it is in separate regions of the fiasco. In this sense, I can say about the Mikolai region. We have the largest number in Ukraine of residential institutions, which have now become a kind of epicenter of money laundering to meet the so-called educational needs of education recipients. Tell me, please, how do you see the completion of the process of deinstitutionalization of internal institutions, and will this bill be able to organize a system of quality services for our children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u45	Thank you, Taras. That's a really important question, because, after all, boarding schools have to go to the past. Sooner or later they have to go into the past, and you're right here saying that it's really, it's the laundering of government funds. As a result, I think that part of the training is provided in foster homes. We have to. And not just in protective families. And we have to do everything we can to get these orphans into our family, in our loving family, to raise them. And that's much better, and that's a lot more. They'll have a much better upbringing. And I fully support you here. I think that we all have to do together so that in a few years, as you say, the ultimate goal is that we do everything to have fewer children in boarding schools, and that more children can be raised in normal foster families and in the families of our Ukrainian citizens, and not just Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u46	Thank you for your answer. Please, People's Deputy, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u47	Thank you. Ivan Dmitrovich, I want to tell you as a countryman, I think you also know very well that a civilized society is determined by the same attitude towards children and the older generation. And in many parts of the world, the internal institutions are also for the elderly, and I have personally seen in Germany, and for young children, that is, underage children. And I want to tell you that I don't take as the former head of the district council the ideology that in families that take children into care, there's always a better attitude than in boarding school. This is like a way of earning money in many families. And I want to tell you, or invite many people who will be in Winnitz, look at the boarding school that is headed by the well - deserved health worker today, Andrieev’s Markowna Hope. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u48	Please finish, 30 seconds. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u49	It's a unique establishment. And I would ask that we actually approach this issue with due consideration and not make such conclusions on the one hand alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u50	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u51	Thank you for both the presentation and the questions. And that's really fair. I support you in this, and I support you in a lot of things. I particularly support that there are older people on the Internet, and that's good, and that's how it should be. Because no one in a foster family or in an elderly family will accept it, and that is what we understand. And it should be. And thank God there are the same Internets for the elderly. But at the same time, at the same time, I also share that there are boarding schools where there's a pretty good attitude towards children. There are no questions here. But if you go through all of Ukraine's boarding schools, we see something different. We know perfectly well that there are 20 boarding houses and 15 children, where there are more staff, than there are children. And that's why I think we should approach this issue carefully here, and I'm not saying that this is today. The perspective is that in 5-10 years and so on, we should slowly grow from the internal way of raising to the protective, to the family, but that's later.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u52	(Please finish. Oh, you're done. Next question, please, from the People’s Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u53	Thank you. I wanted to say that it's very good that Parliament is talking about child protection. We also have our own initiatives. We will support all initiatives that need strengthening, a special attitude toward child protection. On the basis of the work done in Kharkiv, we also suggested that we consider specific issues related to how to protect children from abuse and from possible interference with their health and freedom. This was done by a large work led by Svetlana Gorbunov-Ruban, and we have registered projects. May I have your attention, please? I'm going to put these numbers on the committee. Unfortunately, the bill has not yet been considered. We will support initiatives that deal with the protection of children that are being considered today, but let us not look at this issue at any time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u54	Please, your answer. Answer, please, Mr. John.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. It is indeed, indeed, a pleasure and a pleasure to see that you are also supporting the bill. But again, I want to say that this is a European form of education. And that's where the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, after passing the bill, knows very well that it needs extra money. And these extras don't regret, like for children, we shouldn't regret a penny, no bracelet, no million, no billion! Because this is the upbringing of our children. And that's why I think that you should all understand and respond to the bill and gather and vote for it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u56	Please, the People's Deputy Krivenka question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman! Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Today it is celebrated by the United Nations World Family Day. I want to thank you for this bill today. But I'm very sad to see that our colleagues are not in the hall. All the movers present in the room are voting in favour of the bill. But I urge colleagues from the Self-Help faction to show up at the workplace, half the BP faction doesn't have any other colleagues to come to work. I have a simple question for you. So we're strengthening social protection, and what you're seeing. And yet I would ask you, Mr. Ivane, to take the initiative and support the introduction of a plastic education method, but now the week of Plast is happening in Parliament. Because one thing is to take care of the food, the feeding and the growing of the body, but we need to cultivate the spirit. What is the question of patriotic upbringing, how do you ensure this, and the question of how is it normalized? I'd also like to go to all my colleagues and look at everyone, especially the majors, in their district, what happens to the childless. Of course, a colleague in the Winnitsk region rightly says.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u58	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u59	Thank you. I support that there are problems in families that take children and make only a profit. That is, the vast majority of families are honest, decent, caring for children, but there are families and problems, and they need to be monitored, and they often become involved with local inspectors who close their eyes to the situation of children. So what's interesting is your opinion on the patriotic aspects of parenting in these institutions and how it's done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u60	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u61	Thank you for asking and for your statement. It's really fair, because we see, even in our Supreme Council Hall, plastic kids, when they were here, when they were speaking, it's really kind of, it doesn't matter which, any form of education, it's positive. And really, we have to do everything we can to make sure that these forms of education are in us, so that we can introduce new and new ones. What you're saying is, in Ukraine. Indeed, there are social services for this. Every child, every child who in difficult circumstances who has suffered domestic violence, is accounted for in social services. And we need to make sure that the attitude toward such children is positive, fair, and that would be very good. And again, I'm going to repeat what I said: we shouldn't feel sorry for our children for any money. I thank you for your question, it's really fair that you spoke on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u62	Okay, thanks. Dear colleagues, have you all been able to sign up for the question? Are There Those Who Have Not Made It? Thank you, colleagues. Please go back to work. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a bill from MP groups and factions. Please. Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko, give me your word. He's giving the word to the People's Deputy of Lithuania. May I have your word, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, the question is very important. But personally, I'm surprised at the way this is being discussed: this is how we talked on the surface -- we don't have to feel sorry for money. Exactly how much money does it take? What is the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? We need to stop drooling about these problems and deal specifically with them. I fully share the position that Grigory Mikhailovich has given us in terms of not breaking the established one by creating a new one. I think when they say that in two or three years you have to shut down the Internet, it shows that these people who seem to be working professionally have never been to boarding school. And I'd like to encourage you to come to Doubish to boarding school and see how they work with children there, which is a working methodology that is designed to provide a material and technical base. At the same time, we see the picture that the area is carrying out from above, Kiev, a plan to close and socialize these children, that is, to transfer them into the family. If the parents put these kids on the Internet, the question is, are they going to take the kids back? They may be taken away when they are forced to do so, but this means that children will not go to school. I urge you, dear colleagues, not to take these initiatives to close this problem and say that we do not have an orphan as a living parent. Why do I say that? Because they're called into the area, in Zitomir, and the director of the department doesn't do anything -- he's forcing parents to write a statement that they're calling the kids off. And you know what my parents in this boarding school told me? That's a very interesting thing. He says, "You insist that our children be brought up in families, we have no opportunity. Why do authorities send their children to London, to European countries, to separate their families? That's how they don't grow up in families." They're saying it right. And what undermines me, my dear colleagues, is when we talk about the experiments on children and the fact that we have 100 foster families and we need to continue this experiment. We live, we experiment on children! And by the way, we're already experimenting on older people. Notice that in each area there is a facility for lonely people. Today, they have been thrown into the budgets of the village council, and they are being mass-covered and thrown into the streets. Again, we are thinking about huge reforms. Let's do a specific job! And I have a call: Reporters and co-reporters should not speak at all, but know the problem. I was sad to hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u64	Please finish for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u65	It is sad and indignant to hear when the information is read from the paper. I'm convinced that this information in people who are dealing with this problem should bounce off their teeth, and they should know what they're talking about. And we talked about it, and now we're going to vote, and the question won't be accepted. I don't think the word "disgusting" can be used here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u66	Thank you, Your Honor. And a national MP, Paulenko, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u67	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Undoubtedly, the very important question that we are considering today is the protection of an orphan child, a child without parental care, children in difficult circumstances of life, children affected by military action, armed conflict. At the same time, once again, this issue is being considered on Wednesday, when the half-empty room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being considered again without any analysis, and what is happening in Ukraine in recent years, the situation of a child, especially a child, who is vulnerable to the dangers and risks that are taking place in our country. And in fact, when we look again at the continuation of the experiment on foster families, we are looking at it not from the point of view, but why did it happen that, starting in 2016, when this experiment was introduced, only 71 families were created? It's extremely small, it's nothing in terms of the thousands of administrative units that work in Ukraine today. This is nothing in terms of the fact that today the centres for socio-psychological rehabilitation of children are overcrowded by 150 percent, 200 percent of their seats, overcrowded international institutions, when most children today do not receive timely assistance, which is even in the state budget. Instead, once again, the government is proposing to continue the experiment that they failed to do, because it's not about funding today. Because the funds that have been in the budgets of all these years for a foster family have not been used, they have not been used, because they have not been able to organize the work of the relevant officials. Instead, these funds, which were intended to protect orphans, were sent there to build houses, that is, to create another corrupt system in the structure of the funds that are allocated to the child. Actually, today we say, let's continue until 2026 without any analysis. And the problem is, I'll tell you what. The problem of a foster family is the procedure that is set in the system of its creation. It is extremely difficult and difficult to implement even those organs that are capable of doing so. Apparently, "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support the first reading of the continuation and allocation of these funds. At the same time, I'll remind officials that if we voted this law, yes, Irina Volodymyrna? One of the reasons we're introducing a protective system is to support those children who have suffered from war, from military action, from military conflict. How many protective families have been created in the Donetsk region, Luhansk? None, I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u68	Please finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u69	It's a lie from the start. And unfortunately, the Ministry of Social Policy, personally the Minister of Reva. And the misunderstanding of the problem of specific local services, both social and child services, has led to the failure of the experiment. Instead, a foster family, a family - type children’s home, are the forms that work and know how to work with them. Over the past three years, they have become four hundred fewer in the state, which is also a failure in the work of the Ministry of Social Affairs. At the same time, I urge the Supreme Council to vote in the first reading, but to shorten the date of continuation of the experiment by at least the 20th year, and the Ministry of Social Policy and the government to undertake a detailed analysis of the experiment. And really, I support Vladimir Mikhailovich to stop these experiments on children, and first we need to experiment on these inactive, unprofessional government officials and officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u70	Thank you. Not all were able to sign up. Yes, dear and distinguished colleagues, of course, we haven't been able to register the BP faction, raised two national deputies' hands. But in the context of gender equality, we give the word to Mrs. Oksani, then to the head of the committee. Mrs. Oksana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues! It is good that a woman’s voice will be heard in such an important discussion. Because it is the woman who gives life, and it is the woman who is the custodian of the family’s problems that we are discussing today. I would like to point out to you that in our Ukrainian tradition, there was a moral law: If the child became an orphan, the family took the child, took their blood into their family, and raised her values and traditions of their kind. It was in the Soviet system of children that the authorities took over to make them the screws of their Soviet system. So the bill is very correct, and it is not an experiment, it is a road, it is the right road, because it allows a foster family to return to their biological family. And what's most precious to your child, who is not a father, who is not a mother, but the most precious, kindest people in life, is a father and a mother, it's a family. Therefore, we must be supportive of the bill. We're going the right way, we're giving kids the chance to keep this family warm. The Peter Prashenko faction will support this bill. And I thank you and the Cabinet of Ministers, thank you to the Ministry, and thank you to the committee for this wonderful important work. Let us mobilize and make a decision on such an important day. And I also want to say that today is not a family day, because it is, you know, a family that is cousins, cousins and so forth, and today is the Family Day. Give each other a hug, appreciate each other, because tomorrow may be too late. Today, once again, one Ukrainian family became orphaned because of the death of one of our heroes. May we honor and cherish ourselves and our family. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Oksano. Mr. Capplin is now invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u73	Dear fellows, dear citizens! I would now like to urge the national MPs to vote in favour of this rare in terms of the expertise, relevance and relevance of the bill. It must be supported with certainty. And the Social Policy Committee, first of all, is grateful to the author, to you, for this idea, for this bill. But at the same time, I would like to make a number of comments using the opportunity that you are here, personally, to the Minister of Social Policy and the entire socio-economic bloc of government. I have the impression that Vice-Prime Minister of Social Policy Pavel Rosenko and Minister of Social Policy Reva Andry are working "on the wrong side." Absolutely! Innovation with a thirteenth pension. I want to remind Rev that before Poland launched the idea of the thirteenth pension, it had an economic growth of at least 5 percent every year. Today you have 2 billion dollars in debt to mothers who have given birth to children, you have 2 billion dollars in debt today to people who cannot bury their families. You don't even give peace to those who are already in that world, not that pensioners and socially vulnerable citizens here on this sinful earth. You have two and a half billion debts today. Hospitals. And that is why today we need to take the lead in the new leadership, government, or even today's or even today's decision to reduce the positions of ministers, unite them into a single office, appoint, delegate the first vice-premier to social issues and engage in serious, fundamental social issues. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome all the families, all the families of our nation. The best result of the work of the government, the new president, the opposition, the future opposition, the deputies of the Supreme Council, the mayors of cities, the district leaders will be when we create conditions for a full family: a man, a woman and five children, and so that a man and a woman, seven "I", can feed, feed their children, not think that, in fact, tomorrow will be with their family, to be sure that there will be a peaceful sky above their head, and to be sure that their children will have a job. This is what I consider to be the mission of today's parliament, in general Parliamentarianism in our country -- to give people wealth, confidence in tomorrow. I salute our Social Democratic Party, trade unions and the Committee of Social Policy to all families, all families of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think the entire session hall is joining up, indeed, today to welcome all Ukrainian families. Today is the World Family Day. May Ukrainian families be happy, strong, and loving. Friends, did all the factions and groups sign up for the performance? Yes. And then I give the non-faction word to the People's Deputy Kishkar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u75	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine I really am. We'll support all the movements that are present in the hall, this bill. Only questions raised about the role of a foster family and its creation, such as procedural matters, are involved in the adoption process. The adoption procedure, the procedure for establishing a protective family, is too bureaucratic. Colleagues talk about. A full - time family. Thus, the Kishkar family is ready to adopt a fifth child. What does it take? As we examine the adoption process, we are not prepared to go beyond morals. We're prepared in an honest way, as if it were human. The existing procedure tells the Kishkar family that it is impossible. Similarly, the existence of 71 protective families indicates that the procedure that exists in patronage is morally unacceptable, the basis of the family for those who are willing to do so. So we're paying attention to the deputy minister who's here, and I think she's definitely going to talk to the Ministry about simplifying this procedure. A lot of people talk about "food," so I don't agree that the main problem in Ukrainian families is the problem of feeding. Still, the issue of parenting, national patriotic parenting is more important than the question of feeding. I think that plastic education, plastic preparation, plastic education, and the Plast week that we're currently celebrating in the Ukrainian Parliament, they're contributing to the use of these tools in foster families and in foster families. My kids are plastics, Victor Krivenk's kids are plastics, and I think we're showing ourselves that these systems work. In addition, Ukraine, along with the civilized world, celebrates the 100th anniversary of Waldorf's pedagogy. And in view of the mayor of Klitschka, none of the sunsets of Waldorf pedagogy and the 8 Waldorf schools in Ukraine that produce brilliant children -- geniuses -- I insist like the father of those four kids who go to Waldorf school, that they are different people with their own worldwide perception. I think we have to mark the 100th anniversary of Waldorf's pedagogy at the right level.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u76	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u77	At the same time, by developing other ways of teaching or training, both preschool, secondary, and higher education. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive. Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded a bill from MPs and factions. From now on, I'm asking the Ukrainian national deputies to sign up for a discussion. And literally in a few minutes, I think in 10, in 9-10 minutes, there's going to be a vote for this bill. I very much ask my colleagues to return to the session room. And as I understand it, of all the performances, all the factions support this bill. Yes, there are nine minutes for those who want to go to the corridors, watchtowers, and gather all the national deputies together. Please welcome the Lubinian People’s Deputy. This is our system's fault. Now. People’s MP Paulenko Yuri is invited to attend, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u79	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, well, first of all, I would like to express my support to a colleague who expressed his desire to adopt a child. At the same time, I stress that the adoption procedure, which is set up in the relevant documents, provides that adoption is the realization of the right of the child to have a family, not the realization of the desire of parents to adopt a child. But I agree with my colleague that today's inactivity of the Ministry of Social Policy, the inaction and non-professional work of the relevant services and care and care services in places such as district administrations and city heads has led to the fact that a large proportion of children today who are actually orphans have not received such status. We have today a huge problem of hidden orphanages, when orphans are actually like this, but social assistance, and, most importantly, the right to be adopted and not have a family for them. That is why such children are now overcrowded with institutions in the country. Unfortunately, for the past five years, child rights policies have not been a priority in the government’s work. The analysis of the work of the Cabinet of Ministers in the 14th-19th year shows that the main indicators of child welfare: material security, health, education and development, social protection, and protection from war and violence, have deteriorated considerably. I demand that, after the election of the year, the formation of a new government of childhood be brought back to the top of state policy and so in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I received a report yesterday on the relevant draft Decree 10284 on the social status of children and urgent measures to improve the protection of children's rights, where all the problems faced by a child in Ukraine today are examined in detail; where measures and tasks are put in place as appropriate by the Ministry, the Central Authority, the Cabinet of Ministers, in the Supreme Council, the local authorities, which are now urgently needed to ensure the development and protection of the child, and to ensure that the child is provided, in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, in accordance with the Ukrainian Constitution, in accordance with the legislation that operates and works in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u80	Thank you, Mr. Jury, for the constructive position of your political power under this bill. And please give it six minutes to Mr. Krivenk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u81	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. I want to thank the previous report, because I remember when I was still working as deputy director-general of the South House, and Mr. Yuri was serving as minister of youth and sports, and one of my friends' families wanted to adopt a third child. They had two grown - up children, and a fine family, calm, secure. And they were put up by a middleman, bribed $100,000 for a healthy child. And they offered children with such diseases, with such diseases. And then I went to Mr. Yuri, and he suggested that they arrest those middlemen and arrest them, but the family refused, and yet, thank God, they got the baby, and now it's 12 years old and it's growing, it's okay. There were 52 million Ukrainians in the 91st year, just like the Turks were 52 million. The Turks are now 81 million. We're less than 42. There's one factor: it's extinction, it's that our life expectancy, it's not worth it. This is influenced by a number of factors, ranging from ecology to satisfaction with its state and psychological state. That's not what this is about. The second factor is that Ukraine has become an exporter of human beings. In general, the nation’s misfortune is measured by the number of diasporas. The more miserable the nation is, the more people leave the country. We're five or six in the world on this criterion, on this indicator. It is still understandable when people leave during war, during genocide, during famine, during military aggression. But when people go out for a better life, it is certainly a question of what kind of authority is in Ukraine, including the people who have chosen it. Because it's, you know, chicken and egg, what's the primary? Who chooses the authority that then governs people? In the 91st year, it was the Ukrainians who elected independence from the communist state that over 90 percent voted for independence and elected the President of the Communist State. 63 percent voted in favour of the Communist President who handed over the Black Sea fleet, recorded it in the 92nd Treaty, began to issue nuclear weapons, and the Lisbon Memorandum -- the Budapest forerunner, and so on. And now this policy of economic genocide, it continues. Ukraine is transformed into an exporter of humans and an exporter of raw materials. And the third factor is, of course, the question of birth. We need to stimulate birth. We need to introduce, and the National Movement of Ukraine has offered this and offers a free higher education for. When a third, fourth, fifth child appears in the family. So that all children who give up the right level of knowledge will have the opportunity to receive free education. To stimulate birth. There can be no reduction in pay and no delay, which today has been called in the hall, in the payment of birth. Because we're actually losing strategic war. More than 180 million people can live comfortably in Ukraine. If the Ukrainians were able to get together 100 years ago and not lose their independence, and we didn't lose Bolshevik Russia, we would have a population of 160 to 180 million Ukrainians today. And that is to be understood and understood. With the population we have now, we will not be able to hold our territory. There are, of course, great liberal economists, in parentheses, big ones who have told us since the beginning of our independence, that the state doesn't need to, which is all self-adjustment. In 2009, I served as Deputy Director General of the Space Agency of Ukraine. And we from the Ministry of Education through the government have adopted a strategy for the development of Ukraine's economy for 20 years: 2010-2030. There it was said that Ukraine could solve several world problems, a total of 26: pandemic, terrorism. Ukraine can decide two: clean water and food. There are four areas left: transit, tourism, mineral production, and agrarian production: trade in land diggers and land growers. Since the 13th year, there hasn't been a word for "industry." The maximum required for this economic structure is 10 million people, 10 million people. It is no longer able to feed and provide a decent life, such a structure of the economy. So we really need to realize that for 10 to 15 years there will be a huge migration outflow from North Africa, South East Asia and other regions, and there will be 100 to 120, 150 and 200 million people in Ukraine. And if we don't do an increase in birth rates, if we don't import highly educated people from post-Radians through a cultural filter, through all the tests necessary to make them Ukrainian, we lose as a state, and we lose. We need to start programming from the 1st grade, we need to change the education system, so that it can immediately determine leadership in a child, we need to do soft skills in managing ourselves, time management, so that the young person can grow up and be competitive. Eat on our 13th, 15th, 17-year-old kids, young people. They are already strategically and disastrously losing to their competitors in the West in terms of knowledge, in the understanding of the world. That's why "The People's Hands of Ukraine" calls on the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Social Policy to gather and talk about modernizing our education model. We have to give the child freedom, we have to give the child a sense of his own home, of his own state, because if we raise just cosmopolitans, Ukraine will not be saved, Ukraine will not be a state. And in this respect, it is essential that the question of when there are no parents, especially in these institutions, be actively implemented by the best.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u82	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u83	It is particularly important in such institutions to maximize the implementation of patriotic education, to maximize educational innovation, because these children will have no other chance of breaking through, they have no father, no mothers to pay for them. So I urge the government once again to pay attention to this, and all the national MPs are to go back to the hall and vote this law, and not to embarrass the voters who voted for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u84	Thank you. Last performance. Please, People's Deputy Kaplan, give me your word. Colleagues, I'm asking you to go back to the session room, yes, because in literally a few minutes, there's going to be a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u85	I'd like that. First. I'd like to disagree with the previous statement on the non-competitiveness of our thirteen, fourteen-year-old children compared to Europeans, Americans, Asians. My younger son knows all the national deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by heart, so that you can understand. Everybody, I'm not kidding. In addition to all football players of all football teams and hockey players of all hockey players, everyone knows you, and can get to know you on the street. When she was six years old, she published three collections of poems about Ukraine, about Ukrainian language, about her father, about her mother, not about you, dear colleagues. But I would like to take this opportunity to now contact the Ministry of Social Policy with a call. You don't have to think that all the money we vote for the initiatives and projects of the Ministry of Social Policy is money that doesn't need to be reported to taxpayers, that's taxpayer money. Nor should it be considered that every penny that is then invested in the social sector by the Ministry of Social Policy is immediately effective. I would like to give you an example of when you took a loan to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 300 million euros for the modernization of social policy in the state, 100 million euros spent, spent on tapes that are absolutely groundless, where there is an incredible composition of corruption, and the Court of Auditors confirmed it. And I look forward to the fact that the new government, the new minister of the interior, the new director of the U.S.S.S.A., is certainly investigating these facts thoroughly, because it will eventually come from the pockets of our children, their parents and our pensioners. 300 million euros -- think about it! You've ordered $150,000 sites that can be made for $150. You spent an incredible amount of money, tens of millions of euros on developing infrastructure and innovation in the ministry. And, at the same time, it's nothing. You bought equipment that is morally outdated. And once again, this money will have to be paid from the pockets of our taxpayers. So, please, the next time you introduce drafts, let's do it, especially as part of the continuation of their operation, the special projects and so on, please carefully explain how you're going to spend your money and how you spent your money on it. Because today the Ministry of Social Policy is eating through the gross, most of the funds that are being allocated from the government budget of Ukraine. It's money-eater number one today, and unfortunately, there's no meaning. And guilt in personnel policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u86	Thank you for the talk. Give me two minutes to summarize Mr. Sporish from the profile committee. Then a minute Mrs. Natalie sums it up. Colleagues, and please return to the session room to support this important, unifying law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u87	Mr. Ivan, one second. Colleagues, heads of factions, there will be a vote in three minutes. I'm asking everyone to invite the people's deputies to the hall. See who is leading either the political debate or the negotiations in the watchtowers. And I'd like everyone to come to the decision-making room, colleagues. Now the word is given to John Sporish. Three minutes to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u88	Ivan Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, we discussed, by full procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers bill. First of all, we heard the opinion of all the national deputies. It has been heard, and it may be surprising when many national MPs, when it comes to a child, display negative traits. You know, it seems to me that if we're talking today about raising children, raising a child, so that she's fully raised and really being an example in our society, we have to think, no matter what upbringing there is. First of all, I want to thank Oksana Bilozer, because as a mother, as a real Ukrainian, she really understands this question of bringing this child back to the family. And come on, today I wish we didn't speculate on that. You know, every time we make some drafts and crash them in the hall, it's just because the Cabinet doesn't have any funds, they don't want to make any extra funding, they need extra costs, they need costs, they don't want to spend, they don't want to spend. But what we're seeing today is that the Cabinet of Ministers is doing everything for this bill to raise the children, so that they can still raise themselves and return to their families. And, you know, it's very nice that many national deputies understand that. I would like us all to unite today so that we can unite around the bill. I'm going to ask the chairman today, if we can't take it as a basis today and in general, let's go back and take it as a basis, if we see that some of the remarks are before the second reading, we have to correct them. But let's still take this initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u89	30 seconds, please. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u90	So that today we can take this initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers, so that we today will have this protective upbringing of the children, well, today we have not left it out of our care. The European experience, well, the whole of Europe is working, we're going to Europe and we don't want to accept it. How will they view us? It is said that you cannot provide proper training to help those children who need such training. Let's unite, let's vote. And I would very much like us to be given.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u91	Thank you. Now, the closing word of Fedorovich Natalija Volodymyrna. But I'm asking you, first of all, don't leave the hall, it's the first time. Second of all, look who's gone and invite you to the hall. The closing statement will now be followed by a vote. Please come into the hall and take your seats. Natalia Volodymyrna Fedorovich, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u92	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no question of the elimination of boarding, there's a question of reforming the institutional care system, and one of the alternatives is the patronate. On the subject of patronage in Donetsk and Lugansk. They're also made. For example, in the Donetsk region today we have six protective families. With respect to numbers. Of the 284 interns operating in the Ministry of Social Policy, who, by the way, your decision to amend the Budget Code in December 2014 was transferred to finance, not the local self-government bodies of the united territorial communities, but to finance from the district government budgets, and by doing so you made your decision with the corresponding revenues, the income was transferred, they were financed from the district budgets. So out of 284 interns in the social policy system, 42 are children with 5,000 100 children now. We've watched how much of the district budgets are spent on their maintenance, from 6,000 to more. And we're also looking at other alternatives to finance, for example, child care or, for example, older people, because it's also the Internet of the Ministry of Social Policy. And to do that, we need our common position, and we're working in that direction. One such step is today's bill. So a huge request to you to support this bill as drafted by the committee on the basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u93	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, please. Don't leave, please, take your jobs, get out of your beds. Mr. Marchenko, don't leave, please! We have to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm on it. We're on our way. Out of bed, please come back, colleagues. Mr. Andrey Denisenko! Those in government beds, take up jobs. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'll be the first to put a vote on the committee's proposal, on the basis and in general. If it doesn't work, I'll just lay the groundwork. It's a deal, isn't it? So I'm voting on the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act on the Final and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on strengthening the social protection of children and supporting families with children, number 9523. The committee's first proposal is on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote, please support. Vote. We support you, colleagues. Vote. [[11:45:30.]] For 186 We didn't make it. My colleagues, now I'm going to lay the groundwork on whether we're going to have more mobilisation. And I'll read the factions, colleagues. And look who's not in the hall, maybe someone's in the towers, invite them. So by factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 65, People's Front – 49, Opposition Block – 19, Self-Help – 11, Radical Party – 7, Father's Party – 8, Will of the People – 0, Rebirth Party – 8, non-fractional – 19. So, colleagues, now I'm going to put the next proposal on the ground. Please be careful when voting. And I'm voting on a proposal: Bill 9523 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the social protection of children and supporting families with children. Please vote and please support, colleagues. We vote responsibly and in agreement. Vote. We support the foundation. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:46:58]] For 202 There's more to the foundation. There's potential. High potential. Colleagues. No! No! Now, please. Now we're going to invite some more people's deputies, and let's talk to you about whether we're going to go back to the whole thing? Guys, don't leave! [[B in m in s a l in]] In general, right? Then I'll make an offer to go back to voting in general. This requires that all take up their jobs. I'm asking you to show me the factions again. Peter Dustenka's Block, 72. Two deputies came in, they didn't make it, they're joining us now. People's Front – 52, Opposition Block – 22, Self-Help – 11, Radical Party – 7, Parenthood – 8, Will of the People – 0, Rebirth Party – 10, non-fractional – 20. In fact, we have a fully unified, common position on voting for the law, we just need to mobilize. This law truly unites the hall, for the protection of both children and the support of families with children are important to all. So we vote, we take jobs. And I am voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the social protection of children and supporting families with children. Please vote, please support the return to the vote as a whole, i.e. the committee's proposals. We'll wait for the deputies to take their seats. Please vote, please support the return to the committee's proposal. Vote, support, colleagues! It's settled, it's responsible. Support, vote. [[11:49:20]] For 197 Obviously, the "baseline" proposal is gaining more votes. More. Let's put it back on the ground! So now I'm going to make the next proposal -- go back to voting on the basis, it's got more votes. I'm asking everyone, colleagues, on the basis of this -- this is a compromise, on the basis of this -- this is an option that can bring everyone together. Let's, colleagues, let's mobilize now, get back to the base and support it. So, colleagues, please mobilize. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 9523 and vote on the basis. Please support, colleagues, everyone in the room, please. We vote back, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote. [[11:50:32]] For 197 Colleagues, I would like to make the following suggestion: return to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Let us unite around him so that we can direct the committee, sit down, please, take your seats. So I'm putting a motion to vote so that we don't lose the bill, so that we don't reject it, send it to the committee for a re-reading. Please. Don't come out, colleagues, let's support this proposal. Please support: Bill 9523 should be sent to the committee for re-reading. Please vote and please support. Let's vote again first. We support, let's all support each other. [[11:51:31]] For-191 And the final proposal is to get the subject back to the right of the legislative initiative to work. I am voting on the final proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Please vote, please support. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[11:52:05]] For-187 I hope the committee can, I think we can work together and re-deliver. And, Natalia Volodymyrna, I'm sure we can support, pass the law, and we can support it. Sadly, no voices were found in the support room today. Colleagues came to the fore from two factions about the announcement of the break, but they were ready to replace it with a statement from the rostrum. This statement is from two factions: the People's Front faction and the Peter Dustenk faction. And I invite you to Mr. Yelensky's address, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u94	Honorable national MPs, distinguished viewers and radio listeners! In 2018, Google search in Ukraine was followed by the word "Tomos". This is the tremendous achievement of the Ukrainian people, the faithful Orthodox Church, of all those involved in this process. Tomos, who received the Orthodox Church of Ukraine, is the same as the church of Albania and Serbia, Bulgaria and Romania, Poland and the Czech lands. There is only one difference: never, nowhere, under any circumstances did the Orthodox Church in any country receive the so fierce opposition of the state, the great state, the nuclear state, as it was in 2018-2019. I would like to emphasize that in all the processes that are trying to undermine the Orthodox Church of Ukraine, we are dealing with the Russian State. Taking advantage of the transit period, taking advantage of the fact that one president is going and the other, his successor, is not coming, the Russian state is trying to take away Tomos from Ukraine, the Russian state is trying to shake things up by using the small calculations of some people, the ambitions that we should give away. I want the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the MPs who addressed Patriarch Warfolomy, the MPs who defended this Tomos against attacks by the Russian Federation and their proxy in Ukraine, to say no to all attempts to stir the situation around the Orthodox Church of Ukraine. I want us to give a very clear signal that we are supporting the Orthodox Church of Ukraine in its canonic status, that we are supporting its Chairman of the Metropolitan Epifania, that we are supporting all steps in the development of this church, in the development of schooling in this church, in the development of education, in the development of spiritual education. We must say with determination not all attempts to shake up the Orthodox Church of Ukraine. We must support the Orthodox Church in all its beginnings.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u95	Please finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u96	The clergy, bishops and those tens of thousands of people who cried on the Sofia field in January 19th, when the Orthodox Church of Ukraine for the first time in its history, for the first time in its millennium history, gained legal canonic independence. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u97	Colleagues, I remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has actually begun this unforgivable historical path towards the restoration of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, and the Ukrainian Supreme Council will stand on the watch of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church and will not allow any misunderstandings in this area and attacks on the Ukrainian Church. Also, colleagues, I would like to inform you that we have consulted with the committee, consulted with the right-wing authors, that today we will be able to begin consideration of the DBR law before 2 p.m. in order to pass all the proceedings, and tomorrow morning we will make a decision. And so after 12:30, I ask Mr. John with your permission. And basically, at 1:00, at 1:00, I'm asking the committee and the right-holders to be ready to go through the rights under the D.B.I. Act. And so today we can start, and tomorrow, I believe, yesterday's ratings vote demonstrated that there is a high potential that we can take it before we go to the inauguration decrees. So, colleagues, I now announce under the Rules a 30-minute recess. At 12:30, I ask everyone to return to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u98	Dear fellow national deputies, we continue our work. And let's go to the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "The Ukrainian National Environmental Policy: Status, Perspectives and Ways of Cooperation with Civil Society." Such parliamentary hearings are offered by the profile committee on July 3, 2019. Registration number Order, draft order, number 9485. We'll wait a few minutes while the deputies go to the hall. There's a reporter for this draft decision. I invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster by National Deputy John Rybak to report. We have a full review procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u99	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! Your consideration is proposed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Madam President, honourable fellow members of the National MPs, your consideration is proposed by the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "National Environmental Protection Policy of Ukraine: Status, Perspectives and Ways of Cooperation with Civil Society" under registration number 9485. Ukraine’s high level of demand for national environmental policy is determined by the importance of safety issues. In accordance with article 50 of the Constitution, everyone has the right to life and health in the environment and to compensation for violations of that right. However, the inadequacy of environmental policy and environmental governance, environmental rights of citizens, insufficient access to information and a resolution of public relations create prerequisites for the social activity of the public sector. Increasing the effectiveness of the interaction between public and public institutions is a topical issue in addition to the need to jointly produce regulatory and legal changes, to increase the representation of the public of professional, scientific and expert institutions, environmental organisations when making environmentally significant decisions; and to involve the public in the formation and implementation of national environmental policies at the national and regional levels. Parliamentary hearings will contribute to a wide-ranging study of the issues of public environmental policy in Ukrainian society, its prospects for development, the search for ways to improve it, the discussion of issues of social interest and the need for legislative settlement in this area, and the comprehensive analysis of a balanced solution from the issues noted. For a comprehensive discussion of the above-mentioned issues on the basis of the Committee's decision of 17 January 2019, it is proposed to hold parliamentary hearings on 3 July 2019 in the Chamber of Plenary Meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the theme "National Environmental Protection Policy of Ukraine: Status, Perspectives and Ways of Cooperation with Civil Society". The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision on this issue to be adopted as a whole. Dear colleagues, there has been a great deal of talk in this Parliament about the need to adopt legislative acts, their broad discussion, which relate specifically to the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment. Please support the relevant draft of Supreme Council Regulation 9485. I would also like to tell my distinguished colleagues that during the discussion of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, the project was discussed, approved, supported and discussed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u100	Stay at the rostrum, please. I'd like the MPs to participate in the interview. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kaplan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u101	Madam Chairman, I have a proposition for you that frightens your novelty. Look, we've already buried a very important bill today that was meant to support children who need a reliable shoulders of the state, social support. Joking jokes, but in reality hundreds of children who could get a family will not get it because of the destroyed bill. It's man's fate, it's very important. Now, serious hearings from a conservation theme, a very topical subject for us, are extremely relevant. And now we're going to lose another bill again. Well, it's obvious that there's not more than 50 people in the hall today. Obviously, no one hides under the table and no one votes. And this law will be brought to nothing. And this is the work of the people. They're people, workers, milkmaids, metallurgists, paying taxes for the secretariat to work. Well, let's close this session now and stop this pornography, it's not serious at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u102	May I have the head of the committee, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I'd like you all to pay attention to what we're going to be called. And in general, what the draft decree says is, "The country's environmental policy: the state, prospects and ways of cooperating with civil society." What cooperation with civil society we can talk to you about when in this room, when we consider a really, really important topic, such as environmental protection. And we say very much that there are no health - care funds in the state budget. But we may not realize that the more we care about the environment, the less we spend on health care. But when there are no people in the room who are able to support such an important topic or very few, conscious of themselves meeting here. I don't think there's any perspective on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u104	Thank you. I would also like to point out that, unlike many parliaments in democratic states, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, decisions in the Ukrainian Parliament are endorsed by a majority rather than by a majority of those present, as they are in democratic countries. And that is why the Ukrainian Parliament will always depend, or at least until we change the Constitution, on the personal participation of each MP. And so, in order for Parliament to be viable and to approve a decision, there has to be enough people in the room to get most of the constitutional composition. But the fact that individual deputies have acquired their responsibilities does not mean that those deputies who work should stop their work. And that's also true, because it makes all the working hostages unworkable differently. As we continue our discussions, I thank the reporter. And we'll move on to the discussion from the MP factions. Please record for the faction discussion. Please, National Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u105	Well, then I'll try to find other arguments to convince you to close the meetings and keep a very important bill. I would like to point out that this bill has passed all the procedures laid down in the Rules and the Law on the Status of People's Deputies. It was worked by officials at the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s secretariat, legislators, who spent taxpayers’ money on it. This is extremely serious money, one day the work of the national deputy and his team, the assistants, the cleaning women here in the Supreme Council, those who work in the dining room, are tens of millions of dollars from the pockets of taxpayers. And every day, especially majors, we have voters on the phone and talk about what we have to pay the doctor to remove the appendix, cure the flu, cure the mother, the father, and so on, there's nothing to buy pills for. And right now we're going to be destroying people's work, people's intellectual work, putting this Parliament in a smile. I don't think this Parliament is completely finished, but in a few years of work, we have adopted an extremely large number of legislative acts that have literally paved the way for our country to the European Union. Some of this Parliament has done, and on wages, pensions, the creation of new jobs. Unfortunately, the government has not been a worthy ally of Parliament in implementing these initiatives and has not always been a feedback, more specifically, it has very rarely been, this feedback, but some of the deputies of the Supreme Council have actually done for ordinary Ukrainians. And today, under the cover of his work, to take and thus destroy him, to discredit him to the end so that not even two percent of the citizens' trust is completely wrong. Similarly, it is wrong to ignore, carelessly, ingratitude for the work of the heads of the secretariats, intercessors, members of the secretariat, deputies, their assistants working on such a bill. The subject, the conservation theme, is extremely important. It is very important for the cities of the south, Central, Western Ukraine, each without exception. Every area, every city, every village. I'd say it's number one, because it's about the health of citizens, and it's a third of the national health policy, if it's a European, civilised country. And the brothers are now trampling on the work of MPs, their assistants, their experts, the international experts who have helped write these bills is just insane! Close the session. There's nobody to work here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u106	Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy, Alona Babak, of the Self-Help Unit.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u107	Alona Babak, Self Help Union. Dear friends, of course, "The Self-Help Union" not only by words, but by action, by legislative initiatives, supports environmental policy in Ukraine, supports a civil society that protects the environment. Irina Podowak initiated a bill on the protection of beech forests. Sergey Kiral initiated bills to stop the use of plastic bags. I'm the initiator of a separate waste collection and packaging law, packaging waste. We are also systematically working as a faction to ensure that there are government programs in Ukraine's budget, such as the Drinking Water of Ukraine. Every day on the committee, I work to see if we have a water supply law. I'm back from the Waterm Ukraine conference today, and I want to welcome all of you to the fact that civil society is not waiting for Parliament to gather and support natural protection policies in Ukraine, they're already doing so. I welcome you with the new hashtag, which is starting today in Ukraine, and it sounds like, "The water time is here." Friends, we all don't realize how important water is to every Ukrainian. We have thousands of settlements without centralized water supply, and the rivers of Ukraine are among the most polluted. Don't you know that Ukraine is the least water-supply country in Europe? And you and I are discussing whether or not to uphold the decision. Friends, will people simply look to whether this Parliament cares about the environment, cares about the health of the nation, or not, or is it even an interesting subject? And in the new parliament, there will be, I know exactly, new activists who are now actively working on environmental and environmental protection. They're going to exactly pass the Waste Act and they're going to start a separate collection of packaging and packaging wastes in our country because they're just waiting for Parliament to come together to realize that society can't wait to solve these issues anymore. People just take it and make it, the conservation policy, they put it in Ukraine. So, friends, understand that you're going to be replaced by new people who are really going to take care of the environment, because unfortunately, the initiatives of those who are in parliament today just don't support this Parliament. But self-help, of course, not only does it protect conservation policy in Ukraine, and we're just waiting for the Council to be updated by environmentalists, people who don't care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u108	Thank you. Who else from the MP factions? From the People's Front, please, National MP Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u109	Thank you. Apparently, the People's Front faction fully supports the recommendations of parliamentary hearings. For the People's Front faction, conservation policy is very important because the faction's representatives are working very well on it both in the appropriate committee and with the nature conservation minister Ostap Semierak, who is a representative of our political power. This is a very important question, especially now, because those challenges facing Ukraine today are very important. According to the conclusions of our department of profile, when we talk, for example, about global warming, about the world's average temperature rising by 1 degree, Ukraine is the world's leader in emissions because of the development of hydrocarbons, because of what's happening to our economy, the average temperature in Ukraine has only grown in recent years. When we talk about the state of our cities and towns, about the need to sort garbage, about the need to protect Ukrainian forests, we don't take into account the serious climate challenges facing Ukraine today. According to the projections of our department of profile, in a few years, the desert will actually increase its areas in the south of Ukraine, in fact in areas where water will be stored in sufficient quantities to drink, to provide, to provide life support, in 20 or 30 years in Ukraine, according to all studies, only Volin and Carpathian remain. But Volin and Carpathians are also in a terrible state, because about deforestation in the Carpathians, about the inadequacy of conservation policy, about what is happening with our green plantings, society is constantly raising questions. We see what's happening to the Ukrainian rivers right now. You've seen how the people of Novograd Wallinsky came here, and there's a lot of talk from representatives and public organizations about the fact that the River Svet, the other rivers of Polis, are polluted by the emissions of industrial enterprises into these rivers. We don't pay any attention to that. Unfortunately, this policy has also been a victim of corruption in Ukrainian courts, because when you talk directly about the situation in Novograd-Wolinski, the Ministry of Education is constantly suing the courts, constantly trying to stop those businesses that are polluting the environment. Sadly, however, district government authorities continue to grant work permits to these businesses, and corrupt courts close their eyes on what is going on. I am pleased that so many social organizations everywhere in Ukraine, from west to east, are actively involved in conservation policy. I am pleased that large foreign corporations working in Ukraine are supporting such public organizations, organizing a garbage collection system, organizing policies to bring our cities and towns to. Bringing them in to become an example of nature’s conservation. But when we talk about what's going on in our utilities in these cities and towns, when we talk about what's actually a water treatment system all over Ukraine doesn't work much when we're talking about a garbage dump situation in Ukraine and there's no one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u110	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u111	With garbage dumps and garbage treatment plants, those are the challenges that are really relevant to Ukraine, to all the Ukrainians. These are the challenges that, unfortunately, we pay very little attention to when we talk about large populist slogans. But soon, when we talk about people, unfortunately, leaving Ukraine, because they can't provide enough quality of life, and quality of life depends not only on the level of wages, but also on the ecological environment in which the Ukrainians live. That's why the People's Front faction will support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u112	Thank you very much. There's still some. Please, National Deputy Shurma of the Opposition Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u113	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block will definitely support the draft of this decision. We believe that the issue of ecology, which can be considered in the form of parliamentary hearings, is essential because the representatives of different regions today have the opportunity to express their views, their pain about what we are doing in the environmental system. I would like to remind you that this is very necessary, and because, literally yesterday, we were all looking at the issue of granting benefits to citizens living in high-rise areas, and the position of the Opposition Block was that if we were to give benefits, we would give them to everyone. Because, let’s say, there are special living conditions in eastern Ukraine too, since the hot days, they may be even more challenging for people to live there, and much more difficult to live in, let’s say, than in the Carpathian Mountains. So this day of parliamentary hearings can be the day when people will be able to hear from this rostrum a lot of problems that will relate to the state, the prospects for development, the ways of cooperation and the public with the authorities, and the issue of state law enforcement policy. That's why the Opposition Block supports this draft regulation. The important thing is that we get enough votes today. And this theme, it unites the whole. All the halls, people of different political views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u114	Thank you. So the factions are done. I'm 15 minutes away from the People's Deputies, please sign up. And I remind you, after that, we're moving on to the D.B.I. Act. And I'm asking the right-wing authors, and I'm asking the committee representative to be in the hall so that we can have a discussion today, and tomorrow we can make a decision. So I ask all right-wing authors to be in place. And now I'm asking you to keep a record of the people's deputies, please. Please, Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u115	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, we need to adopt this decision. It's very unfortunate that we're not going to be able to do that right now because there are very few deputies in the room, but it's obvious that we need to hold these parliamentary hearings. It's, you know, the smallest thing we can do today as a parliament in this direction. Because the issue of protecting our environment, the issue of ecology, is really one of the key issues of our lives, because it is an integral part of our daily lives and our future – the future of us as a people. Because today we see that, unfortunately, Ukraine is in an extremely difficult situation in this context. We have huge environmental problems. We often have a barbaric attitude toward nature in Ukraine. These are huge garbage problems: we do not yet have a garbage sorting system, as is the case in all civilized countries. The problems of our garbage dumps, the problems with our water resources, the problems with harmful wastes, the problems with our land depletion. We realize that these are all problems that may simply have a major impact on the health of the nation and that they already have a major impact on all aspects of our lives. And today it's the simplest, most primitive thing we can do is hold these hearings. We need to do a lot of things. Now look at what is happening with the Dnipro River, the main water artery of our country, which provides water to more than half of Ukraine. Today, there's absolutely clear expert predictions that if nothing changes, there's literally 5-10 years left and Dnipro is finally going to be a swamp -- and we're just going to lose our main river. And this is just one example. This is also the question of overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl accident, this is a huge issue, we understand that today there are global processes that colleagues have already talked about. This is global warming. And we realize that these are also challenges that we have to answer. It is therefore necessary to conduct these hearings, it is necessary to invite an expert environment, it is necessary to invite civil society. Together we look for solutions to these complex situations and be prepared to make real decisions, because we have to preserve our nature, we have to save our land, our water, because that's exactly what we're living with, what we're made of. If you don't, well, then at some point all of these problems will become such that they just won't allow us to exist normally. That is why we need to make this decision. I realize there's hardly going to be a successful vote right now, but I think we need to move on to tomorrow sometime. I don't know how to do this exactly, but we have to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u116	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the people’s representative of Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u117	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Madam President, I would like to draw my attention to the inefficient work of Parliament on Wednesday, and to the fact that, unfortunately, despite my repeated speeches, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has failed to approach the systematic, profound reform of the Supreme Council itself, to the revision of the Supreme Council's Rules of Work. I am pleased that there are two bills in the agenda tomorrow, and I hope that they will be supported, but despite this, there remain countless unresolved issues in the work of the Supreme Council itself, starting with legislative spam, ending with simple banal non-visiting by the Ukrainian national deputies of the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we can't close our eyes on these issues, because if we want to have order in our country, we have to start with ourselves -- the main legislative body of our country. As to the subject of the bill under discussion, I would like to say that maybe for someone the question of ecology is secondary, maybe for someone the question of environmental protection is secondary, but I think, and as a deputy major representing the Supreme, Kosovo and Sniten regions, which, for example, is the issue of garbage disposal, the issue of solid waste management is absolutely no less important today than the question of corruption than the question of the same inauguration or the question of gas tariffs. Believe me, this question today may even be of greater concern to many, including my constituents and, I'm sure, a large number of Ukrainian citizens. And the attitude that we're dealing with in environmental matters, putting these issues in order number two, unfortunately the third order of the solution doesn't add to the respect and speed of the solution. I therefore clearly believe that we need to support the decision on hearings in the framework of Ukraine's environmental strategy. We don't just need to support it, we need to implement it into existing legislation by making the day of ecology in Parliament as soon as possible. The day we're going to discuss those issues that are extremely painful for all of Ukraine's citizens in part of the environment. We need to support the ruling. And in the near future, do an ecological day in the states of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u118	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Velichovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that holding parliamentary hearings is one form of parliamentary activity. It is not only during such parliamentary hearings that MPs have the opportunity to express their thoughts on the subject, one or the other. During parliamentary hearings, we have the opportunity to hear experts, public figures, scientists and everyone else who is interested in a particular problem. Therefore, we need to maintain this form and remember more than simply what it is. Get away from her. I would also like to say that I would like to support the previous rapporteur who spoke about what we should do tomorrow, when we consider reforming Parliament's activities, to support those bills that the Head of the Supreme Council of Andri Parubai insisted on. As for the topic of parliamentary hearings that we are currently discussing, this is one of the most important problems for our society today. It's not a secret that many cities now have problems with garbage disposal and disposal. We see how these issues are not only relevant today, but how dangerous they can be to the existence, the normal existence of society as a whole. Therefore, I believe that if we do not support this parliamentary hearing order today, at least we have to get back to that subject in the near future. And we have to look at the way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u120	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Palamarczuk. Please, National Deputy Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, indeed, this bill is no less important than the bills that we are considering in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. But some of the environmental issues we've been giving little or no attention to in the last five years of our work, the Ukrainian Parliament. I have in my hands right now -- just so the TV audience can see -- about 40 bills that we had to consider, which were in the agenda of our Parliament, but they weren't considered. Here's the question of the Chernobyl disaster, here's the question of environmental control, here's the question of land for recreation, the question of greenhouse gases, climate change. These are all the important questions that Ukraine will not live on tomorrow, and they will not live on this earth in Ukraine, our children, the children of our children, because their dirty soil with dirty air, dirty rivers will not be needed, and they will not go abroad in search of a long ruble or a long coin, they will go abroad to search for clean drinking water. Can't you and I understand that? And it is the holding of such parliamentary hearings that may invite representatives of the public, civil society, to the walls of this Parliament, to hear their views on the issue of the country's environmental legislation, the situation, and its prospects. Because you and I have adopted a series of laws that have adapted the European Union directives to part of the environmental assessment, part of the expertise, part of the strategic environmental assessment, the environmental assessment. But we have today and we have a situation where representatives of the public, in public paws, are interfering with public hearings and are not able to build garbage treatment plants in one area or another, and as a result, we have total pollution of our lands. Today we need to discuss this with the public in order to maybe find ways to solve these problems, find ways to change public legislation to make certain decisions about the protection of the environment. So I ask my fellow Members to support this bill, although I have very little hope for it, but I hope that our committee will once again put into the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament an appropriate draft decision on the parliamentary hearings that we are talking about with you now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u122	Thank you. We still have time for performances. Please, National Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u123	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. From the very early days, he met with representatives of the coal - mining companies of Lvivščina. They came to the Ministry of Energy with questions about the remuneration of coal products. But it also poses a kind of danger, in terms of the areas in which the coal is mined. On many occasions, local government officials, city measures, districts, district administrations, and district administrations called on me to influence the coal - mining situation. This is a corresponding submerging of areas where coal is extracted. These are terricones that have a lot of content and actually the whole table of Mendeleiev, you can find it there. These are appropriate discharges into the atmosphere and pollution and water, including the drink that is in that area. And you know what the situation is now with the mines, which are in the temporarily occupied area, which is a disaster with everything. So I hope that this Order on Parliamentary Hearings will be voted, if not today, another time. And the representatives of the local self-government authorities, where there are coal companies, will be in this room, will talk about this issue, will raise this issue again, and the government, the ministries, we as the national MPs will try to help solve this issue or another issue. So I'm going to ask my fellow MPs to vote for this, and then I'm going to have the representatives of society, the public to come to these hearings and talk about the problems of those regions where there are coal companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u124	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Taras Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u125	Taras Kremen, People's Front. There is no doubt that these hearings should take place, and we should certainly pay attention to those problems that concern Ukrainian society and that, unfortunately, we will not be able to eliminate in the near future. Like the classics said, nature is what we owe our children. And in fact, what can we do to pass on to our children, apart from the effects of technological, environmental and other disasters that unfortunately don't work out at the same time? So these hearings, they're primarily called to that. And the social environment, the professional environment, the academic community gave its professional recommendations and helped Parliament prepare a number of similar drafts. I want to support my colleagues who have come to terms with problems that will be resolved in the near future. And I would like to remind you that a year ago a strategy for the occupation and reintegration of the occupied areas of Donbas by Ukraine was presented on the basis of the small-step mechanism proposed by the Minister of Interior, Arsen Awakiv. In particular, I would like to remind you of concepts such as technological and environmental risks in temporarily occupied areas. And I want to remind you that on 65 objects in Donbas, there are over 1,200 sources of ionizing radiation. There is a real radiation threat as a result of military actions and the uncontrolled operation of the service of such radiation sources. In the occupied areas, there's the production of a Styrol concert. In May 2014, an end to the production of ammonia, its derivatives, and other products was announced. However, chemical waste storage tanks remained. There is a threat of sinking mines. As a result, some of the pump stops and falls into the wells of the groundwater are flooded. Moulding waters are mineralized and contaminated with harmful substances. There are times when buildings fall into the mines. It is not excluded that a critical infrastructure may fail. There is information that in neglected mines, militants have arranged mass burials and, as a result, there may be epidemics of hepatitis and other infections in the melting of snow or groundwater. We should talk about these and other things out loud and not be afraid, because this is an ecological catastrophe that can have consequences not only for Ukraine but also for all of Europe. So I appeal to my colleagues to be conscientious and responsible for such challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u126	Thank you. Thus, the discussion by the National Deputies is concluded. Before giving the closing word to Mr. John, I would like to welcome Mr. Winnitzkin, the head of the district council, the head of the district council, the deputy of the village council. And we welcome you to the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I wish you the success and prosperity of your region and Ukraine. Welcome! Colleagues, it's closing time, and in two minutes we'll move on to making a decision. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. Now the closing word is Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Ribak Ivan Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u127	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable fellow members of the National MPs, once you and I have considered a bill, a draft decree for parliamentary hearings on the subject "State environmental policy in Ukraine: status, prospects for development and ways of cooperating with civil society." We have considered this regulation widely and thoroughly, every representative, almost every region of the Ukrainian State, has expressed his vision of what the work of the Ukrainian Parliament should be about protecting the environment. We talked to you about the broad issue that we face every day that our electorate faces. I think our voters will still review the results of the vote in support of the draft decision, see who of the national deputies really cares not only about the material but also about the fact that every Ukrainian citizen lives in a clean Ukraine with clean water and breathes clean air so that our lands are not polluted by garbage. I understand that the draft ruling will not now be supported by Parliament, I think we will propose to our committee to move the relevant draft ruling to the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u128	Thank you. We've had a really important discussion, actually, raising the subject is very important, and we're going to be able to move this draft decision without any difficulty. Now I'm going to put it to a vote, realizing that there aren't many people in the room, but we have to go through the procedure completely before it's finished, and then you move in, and we're already the question that's being discussed in the room, which is supported, no doubt we can support it in the hall. So, colleagues, please take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions. And I'm voting on the bill of parliamentary hearings on "The Ukrainian National Environmental Policy: Status, Perspectives and Ways of Cooperation with Civil Society", 9485. The committee proposes to take as a basis the whole. Please vote, please support. [[13:13:15]] For-86 The decision is not taken. The decree has been rejected, but I would stress that this is a technical, organizational decision, it can be translated very quickly, and we will definitely accept it in a dynamic discussion, without much discussion, because we have had it today, full-fledged, broad discussion, colleagues. And I remind you, colleagues, as I warned you, we are now in a position to go to the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on improving the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation. I'll remind you what the idea is, so that we can look at all the paperwork today and get to the decision tomorrow. When we had a rating vote yesterday on this bill, we saw that virtually all factions support it. When I asked the right-wing authors if they were insisting on law enforcement, they confirmed that they were insisting on law enforcement. And we're going to use our tradition to be able to take all the remedies into consideration today, to discuss them with the committee, to have a discussion. Moreover, the committee will also be able to find compromise forms at the committee meeting if there are discussion points during the discussion. And tomorrow we're going to be able to accept it in the morning, and I think this is a chance, and I think this is our great responsibility -- this law to pass. That's why I'm announcing a move to Bill 5395-d. We have a DBR leader here who is very responsibly responsible for this law, which is very painful for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be able to improve structure and work. This is the second reading, and I remind you that the committee head is speaking first, and then the right-wing authors. All those who insist on making amends will be given the word. And I invite you to address the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Protection of Palamarczuk Mikol Petrovich. Mr. Mikolo, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u129	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, your opinion is suggested to consider a comparative table prepared by the committee for second reading of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts to improve the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation (registration No. 5395-D.) The bill addresses a set of legal, organizational, and personnel issues related to ensuring the full functioning of the State Bureau of Investigation. The bill included 53 amendments and proposals from the national deputies, of which the amendment was fully taken into account, 1 amendment taken into account in part, all other amendments rejected. The draft bill establishes, at a legislative level, qualifications for directors of territorial offices, directors of central apparatus units and directors of internal control units of the State Bureau of Investigation; lists of branches of the State Bureau of Investigation that have the right to carry out operational investigation activities, types of special names of the State Bureau of Investigation, financing and payroll, the text of the oaths of the members of the military and principal bodies of the State Bureau of Investigation. Thus, Bill 5395-d practically preserves all the positions that were reached at the time of its review in the first reading, and does not contain new, inconsistent or conflicting norms. The committee considered this bill at its meeting on September 19, 2018, and adopted a decision recommending it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading and generally as a law. A comparative table is given to you. I propose to adopt the bill as drafted by the committee and in further technical and legal work with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u130	Thank you. So I'm going to traditionally call the number of the adjustment that is rejected. Who wants to bet on confirmation, by raising his hand. And if there's no objection, I'm going to give the word and the head of the D.B.I. for comments, so that we can have a thorough discussion and go to a coherent, compromise vote. 2 lashes, Mustafa Najem. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, we have proposed this right to change the formation of the territorial authorities with the aim of providing better logistics to move the territorial authority from Winnice to the city of Hmelnicky. We can also see by the location of other territorial units of the State Bureau of Investigation, which would be better given that it would be better for both the operatives and the investigators. And I ask you to determine on this amendment and still move to the city of Hmelnicki. In fact, there is no indication at all why this unit was assigned to Winnitz and on what grounds they were making that decision at that time. Because both the prosecutor's office and the authorities. Other investigators said it would be better in Hmelnick. We consulted them, but unfortunately, the bill rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u132	Thank you. Please, Mr. Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u133	I was going to say that originally in the project, in the first project, there was the city of Hmelnicki, and we left it in the city of Hmelnicki. And that's what we are. And it was made out of voice, so it was unnecessary to change the location of the territorial units. And so we left him in the city of Hmelnick. And your amendment was rejected because it was counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u134	Thank you. So I'm going to vote No. 2 of Nyem. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:19:59]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 3. Don't insist. Amendment 4. Don't insist. Amendment 5. The author does not insist. Amendment 6. The author does not insist. Regulation 7. Declined by the committee. The author does not insist. Edit 8. Don't insist. Amendment 10. Don't insist. Number 11, Olena Sotnik. I'm asking you to turn on Mrs. Oleni's microphone,
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u135	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. 11 the amendment refers to an article that defines the qualifications of the Director of the Territorial Authority of the State Bureau of Investigation. With my permission, I suggested that the question of interning in the field, in the field of law, be determined at the level of five years. The committee today, in its version of the table for second reading, suggests that it will be seven years. I believe that, in fact, if we take into account the issues of leadership and law work, five years is enough to upgrade the frame and allow new qualified personnel to come, talented people who have completed the branches that have had the opportunity to work. And this shows, by the way, international practice, including the practice of reforming such bodies in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u136	Thank you. Mr. Mikola, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u137	Well, first of all, I'm glad that Olena Sotnik always makes very constructive and correct adjustments. In fact, it works on our committee under almost all the laws. And this has the right to life, but what did the committee come up with? The committee went out because that's what. has rejected this amendment because, because acceptance as a basis in the re-first reading of the qualifications requirements is actually duplicating, and the qualification requirements under which the contests have already been announced and changing now in those competitions that have already been held, we have for a long time. It won't be the law. So today, actually, the committee just rejected this amendment, based on what's already been done, they happened, and some will still be happening, but most of the competitions have taken place. So that's why they refused it, they rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u138	Thank you. Roman Mikhailovich, I'd like to warn you that if there's any point to be settled, I'll give you my word. You want this position now, don't you? When necessary, you will let us know, and we will allow you to base and tell your position. I am now putting to the vote the amendment of the 11th People's Deputies of the Sotnik. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[13:23:18]] For-50 The decision is not taken. My colleagues, I'm still being asked to remind me of our traditional annual report that tomorrow is World Hangover Day. And it was traditional for us to come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the embroidery. And we also gave a signal to Ukrainian citizens, but very many and Ukrainian diasporas supported this tradition. Moreover, in the Canadian Parliament, they changed to embroidery and the head of a group of friendships, and many national deputies and performed the Hymn of Ukraine in the Canadian Parliament. So tomorrow, I invite whoever intends to attend a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in embroidery. Thank you. 12th, Witko. Don't insist. 13th, Olena Sotnik. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u139	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Again, we go back to the qualification requirements, in this case, the qualification requirement for terms of tenure. And when I respond to Mr. Palamarchuk's comment on the rejection of the previous amendment, and including, I understand that the logic of the deviation and this amendment, I have to say that in this case the criteria are not such that they have no reverse effect. And to improve the law even in the process, if there are competitions and people assigned, there is no problem. On the contrary, we are opening up opportunities for future competitions involving more qualified people than law enforcement agencies, for example, from the private sector. So the question that at this point the change in qualification requirements is only about opening up new possibilities for new uncorrupted, completely updated people to come to this newly created law enforcement body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u140	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u141	What I'm saying is that the actual words of Helen Stotnik have, they say, common sense, that the law really doesn't have any feedback, but the point is that we're those competitors, it would be unfair to them that we've submitted documents to the competition and we've denied them that, right now, we're going to be in this state that we've just dissipated some of the people. Well, you can take it differently here, on the one hand, you can think of what the young, the young, it's great, but on the other hand, we need experienced people who can work in this law enforcement agency. So the committee once again rejected this amendment on. in the rereading of the first reading. qualified, this amendment has been counted, and secondly, it has been rejected that it is inappropriate to change the requirements for posts during the stages of the contests, as I said before. This will also result in a deterioration in the professional skills of the workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u142	Please finish. Thank you. The national MP insists on voting. Please vote, amendment number 13 of the People's Deputy Sotnik. [[13:27:02]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Next is Amendment 14. National MP Timoshenko Yuri does not insist. Next up, amendment number 15. National Deputy Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u143	Thank you, Madam Chairman, for your opportunity. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. I think it's very important that we actually now have a discussion about these stories about human terms, terms and experiences. That's why there's a competition, and there's an interview, and there's a human knowledge test, to make sure that he's absolutely fit, or he's fit, before he's in office. If we're going to go out with you exclusively from that paradigm that man is experienced, only if he worked there for 10 to 15 years, I'm sorry, in principle, we're never going to have an innovative upgrade, not a staff composition, not in principle in philosophy, especially in law enforcement. And from that point of view, I insist once again that we need not just the State Bureau of Investigation, but I think we need to look at this approach over the years. The question is that experience is first and foremost the knowledge and understanding of man and his role in a position or another. That's why I'm reducing everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u144	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u145	Thank you. That's why I'm reducing all the terms and requirements to years of experience to prove that human quality, the quality of human resources, doesn't depend on age, it depends on knowledge and it depends on human personal skills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u146	Thank you. And I'd like a representative of the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u147	I agree that we need to update the footage and we need to rejuvenate it, because youth is power, it's energy. Once again, however, the committee carefully considered the amendment and recommended that it be rejected, since the reiteration of the first reading of the qualification requirement effectively duplicates the qualifications required by which the competitions for the respective posts have already been announced. The committee believes that it is inappropriate to change the requirements for posts during the stages of the competition, especially since it is not so much we are changing. If we've talked about working for five years, today we are. in the relevant law, interns at 7 years of age. So the committee turned it down. If the deputy Olena Sotnik insists on this amendment, let's vote on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u148	Thank you. National MP Sotnik insists on voting for this amendment, so please vote. Amendment number 15, the committee rejected it. [[13:30:09]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Next up, amendment number 16. National MP Timoshenko does not insist. Next up, number 17. National MP, Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u149	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. This is the last amendment in this article that sets the qualifications. And I'm going to respond to the argument about the contests that are announced today and contain certain criteria. Colleagues, we're not working with you in the context of the processes that are now at the State Bureau of Investigation, but we're coming out in principle of the experience of the competitions that have already been held. I followed the competitions very closely, the work of the competition boards, and the appointments. And I don't think it's a matter of youth. We don't have an issue of ajism or younger ones or older ones or smarter ones or more beautiful ones. The question is that we need to make this body as professional as possible. And once again, it doesn't depend on age. This depends primarily on professional qualities. So I insist that this Parliament is finally going to have to move away from the Aegean formats and move on to the forms of professionalism and not just.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u150	Please. Thank you. I would like a representative of the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u151	I agree that this does not depend on age. But what I'm saying is that it depends on the experience of the work and the knowledge of the contestant, and it also depends on the competitive commission that works clearly. If the competition commission is working properly, it will pick the people who should work at the State Bureau of Investigation. That is why I also agree with Olena Sotnik. But what I'm saying is that the committee, after considering it, rejected this amendment for the same reason and it doesn't deny if they're going to put this amendment to the vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u152	Thank you. A national MP insists on voting. Please vote, Amendment 17. [[13:32:34]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Next up, amendment number 18. National Deputy Najem, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that we are correcting a few mistakes with this fact correction. Well, first of all, we've solved a lot of issues that apply to all employees, to all employees, to be the only competitive selection and appointment procedure. Now, if you know, there's an external commission and an internal commission. That is, the external commission, which was chosen by its deputies, and the internal commission chose all the other employees, and the outside directors. We think it's wrong. It would be appropriate to assign this to be one single commission or several commissions that are created in the middle of the DBR itself and would be appointed by the commission as director. And that would resolve, by the way, the issue of political influence, because the external commission is now government representatives, the Supreme Council and the President, and they will have a bearing on the appointment of the next head of the DBR and its deputies, as well as the territorial authorities. I think it's wrong, and that's what led us to have the D.B.I. for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u154	Thank you. I would like a representative of the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u155	Well, first of all, what I was going to say is that we have both an external commission and internal commissions that are already working and that have already been chosen, actually today the D.B.I. has already started its work and is working effectively. So to say that we go back and change the basic law on the DBR would be wrong. Therefore, the committee carefully considered the amendment and rejected it, since acceptance as a basis in the repetitive first reading, we again prescribed the same coalition requirements as in the first reading, and again we did. In fact, the external commission has already chosen all the governing bodies of the D.B.I. And as for politics, I'll tell you that we wouldn't accept, whatever we do, anywhere from someone or someone. And there will always be a political element. So what I'd like to say is that the commission that worked, the honor that I was supposed to be on this committee, it works unpolitiatedly, it's working professionally, it picks up those people, and how today shows that the D.B.I. is doing very well, says the commission. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u156	Please, let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u157	So I think that today the law that works needs to be left in the same part as it is, and the committee thinks so. The committee recommends that it be accepted in the part where it is accepted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u158	Thank you. Are you insisting? Yes. Please, National Deputy Najim insists on voting for his amendment. Amendment number 18. Please vote. [[13:35:52]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 19. People's deputy Babenko. Don't insist. Next amendment number 20. People's MP Goncharenko. Don't insist. Next amendment number 21. People's MP Goncharenko. Don't insist. Next amendment number 22. National Deputy Najem. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u159	It's just a technical correction. The point is that the law refers to a competition commission that elects D.B.I. workers. In fact, two competition committees are already running. So either you have to correct the law, you have to write that several competitive commissions; or one of the commissions that are now in existence is actually illegal. And the more we know that there are conflicts between the two commissions, the more I think it's right that we already have the law, that we have the right to create several commissions. Because the number of employees and the competition is very high.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u160	Thank you. I would like a representative of the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u161	Well, I'll say there's a truth somewhere, maybe in this approach. But in view of the fact that we have already taken this into account, in view of the voting, the reiteration of the first reading, the transcription, we have already written it under the transcript, so this is actually taken into account. But if it insists on confirmation, please put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u162	Thank you. And please vote. [[13:37:41]] For-33 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 23, national deputy Shkrum. Don't insist. Next amendment number 24. Please, National Deputy Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u163	We concluded that the order of taking an oath was similar to that of other organs. If, for example, in the National Police, we have an oath-making procedure defined by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which coordinates the activities of the National Police. In a situation involving the State Bureau of Investigation, the Office of Ministers coordinates the activities of this central executive body. That's why we think that both the oath procedure and the oath text, and everything about the oath, in general, should be determined by the government's decision, not by the State Bureau of Investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u164	Thank you. I would like a representative of the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u165	That's right, I'm going to read to you how the amendment sounds right now, and I think it's going to be right. "A person of the rank and principal composition of the State Bureau of Investigation shall sign the text of the oath, which shall be kept in her particular case. The procedure for making an oath shall be determined by the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation." That is what is stated in the law that works. Because of the committee's leadership. The committee turned it down. According to the committee, the procedure for making an oath is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. This is the Cabinet of Commissioners, this is the D.B.I. Director's office. By the way, the same pattern of oath-making and procedure is foreseen for employees and NABUs and GPUs and some other law enforcement agencies, i.e. the only order. That is why the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u166	Thank you. National MP Najem insists on voting for his amendment. The committee turned it down. I'd like to make a statement. Vote for Amendment 24. [[13:39:51]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Next up is Amendment 25, People's Deputy Sotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u167	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. What does the committee offer us? We have a committee that suggests formulation, an order of taking an oath by the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, according to all the members of the State Bureau of Investigation. I'm giving you an analogy, for example, of the National Police: the order of taking an oath by the National Police is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please explain to me the logic of the committee, considering that you are exactly the Committee of Law, and by the way, you've drafted and adopted a bill on the National Police, which makes sense for us to have something for the State Bureau of Investigation to change, to move away from the established, absolutely logical procedure? Because the director of the State Bureau of Investigation, as a minimum, does not have and cannot determine his status, because he is, let's say, outside of his jurisdiction today. Why did this happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u168	First, we accepted it, I said, in the second reading, that's the first. Secondly, this similar order has already been followed, I said, the oaths and procedures are for the employees of the NABU, the GPU and other law enforcement agencies. So it's just order, and the oath itself, it's the same type, and the director doesn't define it. The committee therefore recommended that the amendment be rejected. If the MP insists, please place her on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u169	Thank you. Thank you, thank you. National MP Stotnik insists on voting for her amendment. People's deputies, please make up your mind. The amendment committee has declined, please vote. [[13:42:28]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Next is Amendment 27. National Deputy Najem, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, this is a very, very important point in fact because it concerns financing the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation. The law states that this can only be done at the expense of the state budget. In addition, it is noted that international technical assistance can only be obtained if there are international agreements. We have international contracts, first of all, not with all organs, second of all, not with all organs, the more the State Bureau of Investigation is just created. Secondly, what do we suggest? The first is to allow the FBI to receive funding or assistance not only in the form of money, but also property that is happening now in very many cases where, for example, the aircraft, and now, for example, the State Bureau of Investigation operations, they just need this assistance directly. And the second is to take away this possibility. I mean, to get the government involved in financing the D.B.I. from external sources. What does the budget say now? Only if there are government contracts can the DBR receive, for example, assistance from other countries or other international technical missions. So directly the D.B.I. can't make any arrangements.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u171	Please, let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u172	or with other donors. Like the National Police and the NABU, for example, who received direct assistance. And there it was written in the budget, to their very self, that they receive this aid in the form of property or money. And the government couldn't intervene, forbid or control it. This, first of all, will ensure the work of the D.B.I., second of all, it will ensure its independence, because now even international aid must be in line with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u173	Thank you. I would like a representative of the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u174	It's very nice that Mustafa Najem is concerned about the material and technical base of the DBR because it is directly related to the results of the work, the material base. If it works, where it works, and if there's equipment, of course, the D.B.I. will work better. But I'd like to say how it's now written down, why it's been rejected, as it's now written. Now it's clearly written in the text, yes, in the text: "The financial and material and technical provision of the State Bureau of Investigation is made at the expense of the state budget of Ukraine. The financing of the State Bureau of Investigation is prohibited at the expense of any other source, except in cases provided for in the international treaties of Ukraine or in projects of international technical assistance registered in the established order." We have written down just as the law requires of us. Thus, the committee rejected the amendment, as it contradicts the Ukrainian Law on Sources of Financing for Governmental Authorities. In harmony with article 2.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u175	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u176	".. Only on the basis of budgetary funding, except for the cases mentioned in this Act, within the framework of the Ukrainian State Budget Act for Ukraine for the year in question. As a result, the committee carefully considered and rejected the amendment because it should comply with Ukraine’s legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u177	Thank you. National Deputy Najem, you insist, right, on the vote? Then I would like to ask the National Deputies to determine: Amendment No. 27 of Najem’s national deputy, the committee rejected it. [[13:46:15]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Next up is Amendment 28 of the People's Deputies of Najem. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u178	In fact, this item may not be that relevant right now, but it needs to be considered: the full and timely funding of the State Bureau of Investigation after creation. We remember that long after the office was created, there was no funding, and it was stipulated that if they did not fill 30 percent of the warehouse, there would be no financing at all. And since all the coworkers were recruited on a competitive basis, and the competition boards were supposed to be working somewhere, working for some money at all, they should be organized, and I'm not talking about the pay of heads and deputies anymore, it's a collapse for a while. In fact, DBR was located in a government building, in a small office, building them, even now they were given, you know, it wasn't repaired, there was no money for the competition from the very beginning, there was no audience, there was no material and technical security at a very low level. I'm not saying that even now, the state Bureau of Investigation's operational services are not fully equipped with either equipment or equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u179	Thank you. I would like a representative of the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u180	Well, in our opinion, in the committee's opinion, we're also interested in just being able to have timely funding and full collateral sufficient for both the start of work and the work of the State Bureau of Investigation. But according to the committee, the funding guarantees for the D.B.I. were. They should be listed in the law, in the Act on Sources of Financing for Governmental Authorities. As a result, we refused this amendment. That's why. And I also want to say that the same period is also set in the NABU, the same order. So the committee rejected the amendment, and as they vote in the hall, we will see.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u181	Thank you. National MP Najim insists on voting for this amendment, so I ask the national MPs to identify themselves. This is Amendment 28. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[13:48:45.]] For-36 Thank you. The decision is not taken. Next up, Amendment 29. Please, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u182	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Well, I'm going to be more critical here, and I think my amendment is absolutely justified. Because I would like to strongly exclude part three of article 17 of this bill. It speaks of the full and timely financing of the State Bureau of Investigation in an extent sufficient for its proper activity. Friends, the law, it's not a banking institution, it's not supposed to provide any guarantees. We have the Constitution of Ukraine. The Constitution of Ukraine clearly defines the duty of the State to ensure the full operation of all State authorities. There never was, and it's once again unprecedented and a little bit. Well, not a little bit, it's an illiterate norm in the law, when we're actually duplicating a particular body with an existing constitutional obligation. So I think we don't need to set unconstitutional standards in a good law that we've worked on for a long time, I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u183	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u184	I'm proposing it, I'm not just proposing it, I'm insisting that we rule it out, and the state will do its duty on the basis of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u185	Please, Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u186	Yes, I personally do not object to being expelled, meaning that part three of article 17 of the bill was expelled, and the committee, by its decisions when voting, did not agree with me or with Olena Sotnik. And it's a shame that this happened, but I'll tell you what the committee is up to. The committee was guided by the fact that, again, a similar order had been established in the NABU. So that's exactly what they did, maybe it's wrong, maybe it's wrong, but it's what it is. That's why I'm asking you to bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u187	I'm putting the vote to 29 people's deputies, Sotnik. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:51:13]] For-35 The decision is not taken. 30 lashes, Najem. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u188	Well, look, this item tells us that it's supposed to be a special fund to conduct search-and-rescue actions by the State Bureau of Investigation. Well, first of all, in the previous amendment, we've determined that funding for the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation should go fully. Why we need to create another special fund is not clear. Secondly, even if there's a desire in the State Bureau itself to create a separate fund, they can create their own fund from their own budget, they don't need a government decision to do that. And what's more, they can actually define a single item in the costoris, a separate line, to write: to perform search-and-rescue (inexplicable) actions. Why create a special fund? I'm not saying that we're already giving up special funds for a year, and the budget committee insists that there be no special funds at all. And we're here directly in the law that there has to be some kind of special fund to carry out the search and search only for the State Bureau of Investigation. That's why I insist on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u189	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u190	M. to exclude this amendment, that is, to exclude this article and to approve this, to consider this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u191	Please, Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u192	The committee considered this amendment by Mustafa Nyem. In fact, we should leave with regard to the creation of different funds. But the point is that, according to the committee, it is the guarantee that the financing of the FBI should be mentioned in the law, and including there is no law, that is not indicated. So the committee went to the fundraiser to write: "The Treasury of the State Bureau of Investigation envisages the creation of a fund to conduct search-and-rescue actions." And that's why they wrote it down, and again and again, just like it's supposed to. That's why I'm here. Let's put the amendment to the vote if it hits.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u193	I'm putting 30 people's deputies to the vote. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[13:53:53]] For-33 The decision is not taken. Next up is 31st, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. So let's just say, colleagues, with you, what's more important to us is that we have constant, uniform practices in government and the only approach, or we're going to refer to this as being in the NAB, so let's do another one of the DBRs, or maybe we'll create another one. And then we have a full balance of activities: someone who's evener, someone who's better, someone who's worse. It seems to me that it would be important for Parliament to move away from these stories of exclusion and move on to the stories of the only standards. There is only one standard, such as budget legislation, which actually allows for special funds to be identified in the formation of the corrosive, if necessary. This means that both the State Bureau of Investigation and the Cabinet of Ministers are able to determine the special funds for a given year. I don't understand why it's a matter of establishing a separate article in the law on a permanent basis. For me, this is nothing more than a departure from established practices.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u195	Please, Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u196	What I'm saying is that the same reasons for not talking about the reasons for a long time are the same thing, and that's why the committee studied it again. And according to the committee, the funding guarantees for the D.B.I. should be included in the law. That's why we made that decision, and I'll say it again, but it's again an analogy to the NAB. So the committee rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u197	Thank you. I'll bet the vote on number 31. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:55:54]] For-34 The decision is not taken. 32nd, Mustafa Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u198	Well, it's funny, in fact, that we have such standards in the bill and in the law on pretrial investigation. I just want our colleagues to understand that the law stipulates that the employees of the State Bureau of Investigation, i.e. all employees, should be paid for their degree in science. It's okay, I understand when it comes to the college, well, why don't you tell me, please, what would be the payment to the investigating body of the pretrial investigation? They do research, not scientific activity. And the scientific payout, I think it's, well, in this case there's no, no adequacy. So we suggest that we rule out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u199	Please, Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u200	Dear Mustafa Nayem, I wanted to tell you that the State Bureau of Investigation system consists of educational institutions and scientific research institutions, so there should be a supplement for the scientific level. The proper level of pay and social protection of DBD workers is a guarantee of their independence and impartiality and reduces the corruption risks of their activities. So the committee, based on the above, rejected your amendment because people have to have, and those who do, including scientific activities, and scientific degrees, have to have the corresponding pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u201	I'm betting on the 32nd vote, she's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:57:50]] For-34 The decision is not taken. Thirty-three, Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u202	Thank you. Me, too. It's a story for me at all. You know, decommunization is decommunization. And if not, then let's not lie to each other, because the science story is not a payout story. Scientific degree, or scientific activity, allows you to receive additional income in teaching, in publishing articles, in publishing books, and so on and so forth. This is the possibility, as you say, of reducing corruption risks. Man goes and gets paid extra for his knowledge, for being a scientist. But there is no scientific degree that can affect the history of crime. A person will receive a salary as an employee of the State Bureau of Investigation for the detection of crimes. If you wanted to define this for the individual categories that work in the State Bureau of Investigation, the educational institutions themselves, it was necessary to write that they could have a supplement. But what's the payback, for example, there's for the investigator.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u203	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u204	Or an operative, if his key function is to investigate crimes, not to identify them, I don't know, some understandable device, or what level of scientific significance does one or another form of crime have? This is in no way cohesive and is a Soviet norm and survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u205	Please, Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u206	Well, I agree with Elena, Captain, that, in fact, you have to get those who do either scientific research or have a degree in science. I want to pay attention, if those investigators, not all of them, and this may or will not be excluded, will also have some scientific degrees, and most of them do not have, but it also encourages workers to prepare more qualitatively and qualitatively to investigate matters, it is also a very serious incentive for new knowledge and for full, comprehensive, comprehensive, objective investigation of those criminal cases, those crimes that will be investigated by the State Bureau of Investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u207	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote on number 33. It's rejected by the committee. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[14:00:37]] For-30
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-15-m0.u208	It's not a decision, colleagues. 2:00. Let's figure out which one of these adjustments we're going to continue tomorrow. Of 35 revisions, Mrs. Helena. The centurion, 35 revisions, tomorrow, we'll start work with it. I want to remind you that the 36th is next, Najem, 36th. I ask both the head of the committee and the right-wing authors to be in the hall tomorrow at 10 a.m. We're going to have another 20 to 25 minutes, so I can see to complete the discussion and move on to making the decision. I think we've made the right move. And welcome, Roman Mikhailovich, you too will be in the hall tomorrow. I hope tomorrow we'll finally adopt the law we've been waiting for so long. I remind you tomorrow is Hanging Day, colleagues. I want to work productively with all the committees that are holding their meetings today. Tomorrow, I remind you, we're going to have parliamentary reform bills, and I'm asking you to back them up. It's obviously going to be this sequence. I hope that the Regulatory Committee will take a decision on the decision on the inauguration. After the D.B.I., the inaugural decisions. Then right away, reform the parliament. And I am very counting, and I hope that we will be able to support the reform of Parliament and we will be able to make these decisions tomorrow. So, colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm waiting for everyone in the hall. Thank you, Mr. Mikola. See you tomorrow.
