ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Colleagues, we're starting our work. Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, colleagues! Dear colleagues, we're starting work. Good morning again, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies please prepare for registration, turn on the "Council" system. [[10:11:22]] Thank you. 393 national deputies were registered. Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The President of Ukraine, Vladimir Aleksandrovich Zelenski, participates in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please welcome the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] The meeting of the Supreme Council is attended by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexei Valeriyovich Honcharuk, and members of the government, the heads of central executive bodies, the leaders of the judiciary. [[Congrats]] The present officials elected by the Supreme Council are appointed, appointed, and assigned to the office, representatives of public organizations and the media, and other officials. Honorable National Deputies and Visitors of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I declare the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a public call. [[The National Anthem of Ukraine]] The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, to us. On August 21, 2019, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on the electoral side of Ukraine's national deputies on July 21, 2019, in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency of Larin Sergey Mikolaiovich, who was included in the election list of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukrainian national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Larin Sergey Mikolayovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u3	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. [[Applause]] On September 2, 2019, the Central Electoral Commission registered Ukrainian national deputies elected for the election of Ukrainian national deputies on July 21, 2019, in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency district: Anatolya Dmitrovic, Cibu Tetjana Viktorovna, Kalaur Ivana Romanović, Grishina Yulia Mikolaynovna, Rudenko Olga Sergiyovna, included in the electoral list of the political party "Slunger of the People". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ostapenko Anatoly Dmitrovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u5	Thank you, Anatoly Dmitrovich. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zib Tetjana Viktorovna, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u6	I, Auntie Ciba, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u7	To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Kalaur, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u8	I, Calaure Ivan, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u9	In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Grishina Julia Mikolayovna, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u10	I, Sin Julius, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u11	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Rudenko Olga Sergiyovna, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u12	I, Rudenko Olga, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome our new colleagues, our new people's deputies, wish them success, wish them fruitfully to work in the interests of our state and in the interests of our constituents. Thank you. [[Applause]] There are several announcements. According to these statements and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of Ukrainian national deputies Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna, Sosun Inna Romanovna and Stefaniša Olga Anatoliyovna into the political party's deputy faction "Golos". [[Applause]] According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Laryna Sergio Mikolaiovich, as part of the political party's parliamentary faction "The Opposition Platform for Life". [[Applause]] According to these statements and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the entry of the national deputies of the Ukraine of Grishina Yulia Mikolayovna, Kalaur Ivana Romanović, Ostapenko Anatolia Dmitrovic, Rudenko Olga Sergiyivna and Cibe Tetjana Viktorovna into the political party's deputy faction "Serve of the People". [[Applause]] Thank you. Let's move on to the next one. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with Rule 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes Tuesday for the introduction of authorized representatives of MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, messages. Please tell me we have a very busy schedule today. Do you insist that we stay? Okay. Then I'd like to ask the factions and groups to sign up for a 30-minute statement. Bondar Victor Vasilovich, MP for the Future, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u14	Mr. President, Your Honour! Colleagues! Today is an extremely important day in the history of Ukraine, in fact, we are starting the work of Parliament with one of the most important issues that has stood in the order of the day for the last 20 years. And that's what most politicians, most political parties, have been talking about, that we need to take down the parliamentary integrity and start doing it in the first place. We are, by all means, our "For the Future" MPs support the President's desire to really put order in the country. Fulfill most of the promises made over the past 20 years. We realize that most people today are expecting economic transformations, creating conditions to make life in the country much better, so that tariffs are fair, pensions are such that people have the opportunity to benefit from pensions and to be treated, and to pay municipal tariffs, to live with dignity. So that production in Ukraine could become a powerful, prosperous nation. We realize that today’s agenda is challenging to meet all the commitments that our politicians have made for 20 years. The question of withdrawing parliamentary immunity will surely be the most important and most resonant issue today. We understand that from a political point of view, from a political point of view today, we need to do this in order to show people that they really are all equal. But we want to remind ourselves at the same time that there are some safeguards. There are fuses that would not have been able to even help the former in 2004. President Yushchenko's future would have been the President if there had been no parliamentary immunity. Because dozens of deputies were standing to die so that Midan could stand to be able to go on the third tour. We understand that in 2014, those who participated in the event, I was, went to the hall, gathered 227 votes to send Janika, Yanukovic, I'm sorry, to resign, and to finally put a dot in that sad story of Ukraine. There would be no parliamentary immunity, I'll tell you honestly, most of us wouldn't have come to this room, and that would be very important, and we have to keep that in mind. I understand that we have for sure today, and we are ready, our parliamentary group, to support this initiative of the President, we have a lot of people out there who are going to vote, and we have put a free vote so that everyone can decide for himself. But we have to realize that there are political commitments that are very popular and people like it, but there are realities that have passed the country of 2004, the 14th, and these realities are not excluded that can happen again in 7-10 years. We don't know who the President will be and what Parliament will be like in 7-10 years. So today is a very important day: we're ready to support any initiatives by the government, the President, that are set for economic downturns, economic recovery, industry, energy, transportation to raise wages and pensions. And this time we're going to be selective, each of us is going to make a decision about how he votes, but we have to work with you to realize how important this is from the point of view of history and the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose that if you don't mind letting the government in on a lot of things, and I'm sure it's the only way we can work effectively. [[Applause]] Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, faction of the European Solidarity Political Party. Irina Volodymyrna Herachenko, faction of the European Solidarity Political Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u16	Dear Mr. President, dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! You know, there's one theme that unites all parts of this room, that's the return of Crimea and Donbas, and there can't be two positions. On September 8th, the invaders are holding illegal local elections in Crimea and from "European Solidarity," and I think from the whole of Parliament we can say that Ukraine never recognizes the results of these elections. And we demand that the Russian Federation return Crimea and Donbas immediately, and we will fight for the invasion. But in fact, in order to get Donbas and Crimea back as quickly as possible, we need unity within the country and two components: a strong economy and a strong democracy. And in the context of strong democracy, of course, the key theme of today is the abolition of parliamentary immunity. I would like to thank President Prashenko for initiating this bill in the previous Parliament and all the colleagues of the eighth call who sent this bill to the Constitutional Court. And our first reading political power unanimously voted in favour of the bill. At the same time, my dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that when we adopt changes to the Constitution, it's not just the form that matters. It's the procedure. There's a decision by the Constitutional Court, and I'm surprised to hear statements from professors, doctors of science when they say that, excuse me, the motivational part doesn't matter. Colleagues, in the Constitutional Court's decision, everything matters, every comet. Just like the decision of the Venice Commission. And it's very important to remember if journalists show us today an interview of some of our new colleagues that they can't do for themselves, you know? --to decipher the Abbreviation of VR and MM, to remember that there are also "political wolfhounds" in this room, in one sector that will definitely use every wrong coma to file a lawsuit with the Constitutional Court and then cancel this decision, which is very important for everyone in the room. What is the position of "European Solidarity" on the abolition of parliamentary immunity? Guys, she's fixed. We voted for it, but we're against the inviolability of criminal crimes. But obviously, what previous colleagues have talked about and will talk about in this room, political immunity is an important principle of democracy. It's not the MP's privilege. The opposition can be put on a gallery, but it cannot be erased from the history of Ukraine, opposition today and minority are the ones voted for by 40 percent of Ukrainians. And actually political immunity is what the Venice Commission and the Constitutional Court are recommending. We are set up very constructively, and it seems to us that in the context that this decision is not to be "political wolves" on the second day is submitted to the Constitutional Court and it is there that it is very important to accept these changes that we are talking about, to submit them either from the President, if that is the will of the honourable President, or from the 150 people's deputies of Ukraine. We've prepared these proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u17	Let me make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u18	And we've already got the signed letters. And we call on factions to sign in order for us to consider the following: criminal responsibility -- all equal before the law, political immunity -- such as in the countries of the European Union, the United States and other developed countries. We hope that this is the voice of the mind that must unite the room and give such an expression of inviolability in the Ukrainian Constitution of European Democratic Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u19	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, Mr. President, today we will have to vote in favour of a large enough package of initiatives that relate to the changes to the Constitution, which we must refer to the Constitutional Court to make the relevant conclusions. It's actually very sad, I'll explain. First of all, mistrials, and that's very unfortunate, because there's not enough procedure for passing alternative bills, first of all. There are no conclusions from the Main Committees, secondly. And there's no conclusion of scientific expertise, thirdly, that's a mandatory requirement, especially when it comes to sensitive things like constitutional bills. But that's not even the point. I do not remember any subject of constitutional application, namely, the subject of a legislative initiative that would attempt to change the Constitution in such a strange, insolent way. The vast number of laws that are not related to each other, the unsuspecting, the often senseless, the often incomprehensible, the often harmful. You know, you can't push everything, the Constitution exists for that. I have a proposal for those who in principle support these bills: read again. I'm not sure you even understand what this is about, and if you understand, ask yourself, ‘ Is it worth making a comic book from the Bible? ’ If we're talking about constitutional change, there are things that might, in principle, be there and may not be. The basic principle of the Constitution is to establish what is necessary and what is not constitutional is better not to do. But there's a change that we've been talking about, not less than cancelling the MP's immunity -- it's about changing the impeachment procedure. And when we're trying to propose a bill on impeachment instead, forgive me, this bill has the same bearing on the procedure of removing the President from power as the gum "Orbit" to fighting the caries. If the President is not afraid of democratic procedures, let him as the subject of the legislative initiative amend article 111 of the Constitution, let the impeachment procedure be transparent. If MPs are not afraid to undo the inviolability, the President should not be afraid of the democratic system of opponents. [[Applause]] And finally. I may have carefully read the presidential election program for Zelenski, but I do not remember his promise to increase his authority. If you look at some changes, including constitutional and legislative changes, it's actually going to subdue all the actual power structures, starting with the National Guard, which looks very strange in terms of actual legislation, ending up being able to create in an unlimited number of regulators. I think I missed some of the "Serves of the People" series. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u21	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev, a faction of the political party "The Fatherland" is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u22	Mr. President, your honor, I think on January 1, 20, the country will wake up in new realities and not just political ones. I am convinced that today the changes to the Constitution in the part of the withdrawal of parliamentary immunity will be accepted, but this is only the beginning. From the point of view of our faction, we cannot work in conditions where individual fragments of the Constitution, not essential parts that flow into the life of our country, change. The changes proposed today for referral to the Constitutional Court are changes that can be summed up in two key ways: reform of Parliament and the actual legalization of those rules that, unfortunately, the President has acquired in a previous convocation. The first and the key is that neither the Presidential nor the Supreme Council nor the authorities can exist in this country without a clear standardization of these norms in the Constitution. How was the appointment of the head of the NABU, the head of the DBR? How did we appoint regulators? Only by the will of those who received the majority and the majority, which fell apart very quickly? Is that the majority they received today? We need to regulate this forever in the Constitution so that every new election of Parliament or President is not a natural disaster to fight corruption or to fight corruption. For our faction, it's very important to follow procedure. And that's why we insisted that every rule and letter of law be fulfilled, especially when it comes to the Constitution of Ukraine. A great request to the head of Parliament, as well as a request to the President: no way to cross the line. If it is recorded that the work of the committees takes place exclusively during the session, the committee may not adopt a decision to refer to the Constitutional Court or to amend the Constitution at the time when the session does not work. So for us, one key point is going to be very important here. We've been discussing these amendments for a long time today, and we're going to support them. But it is very important for us for the future not to be chaotic, captured individual fragments of the Constitution, but to be a systematic work when we realize that at this door we will not be caught by national MPs, but at least as it is in the key parliaments of the world -- by a magnetic card, which is a ballot. Then it can be established.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u23	Let me make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u24	How the National MP works, and whether he's really missing a meeting. I think that's what there is, and there's a procedure for Parliament's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u25	Thank you. Vadim Zinović Rabinovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u26	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, your colleagues, your countrymen! There are many questions that are important to raise from this high rostrum. But I'd like to stop at the main one. Yesterday, the determination of the new authorities to start selling Ukrainian land was finally confirmed. Moreover, the deadline has already been set for December 1. Many questions arise. First of all, where is the same referendum that you promised not to do anything like this? Secondly, do you understand, first of all, those who are sitting in this room, that in today's beggarly plundered Ukraine, land will be collected by the most unaverage citizens of our state? Moreover, the land — the last not looted or stolen wealth of Ukraine — will cease to be the property of the people of Ukraine. The story of how we'll live well when we sell our own land, I don't want to comment on it at all. I would like to quote the 13th article of the Constitution of our State: The land of Ukraine is an object of ownership of the Ukrainian people. Property should not be used to harm humans or society. This is our Constitution, whether someone likes it or not. Therefore, before selling the land, the "ministers of the people" must consult with the host, the Ukrainian people. I repeat, through a popular referendum! A referendum! Let me draw that out. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the most responsible decision can be this decision in the history of our nation. I want everyone to feel: a lot of ridiculous improvements can be cancelled in time, but the sale of Ukraine's land will be a disaster. There are things that are vital to the existence of a state that cannot be experimented on. Ukraine’s land is something you can’t play with. Thousands of times, taking into account everything in the field of mind, understanding all the risks, we can take steps with regard to our land and, more so, its sales. Ukraine’s land cannot be sold either under New Year’s or under December 1. It's impossible to sell because it's not a Christmas present. Think of what you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u27	Thank you, Vadim Zinovovich. Dubinsky Alexander Anatoliyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u28	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, Mr. President, Your Honor's Presidium, distinguished guests. So, you know, I want to share with you the feeling that I'm having right now because of all the troubles that we're having right now in this room because of the removal of the MP's immunity. I'll explain from the point of view of those people who are now there from the press, from ordinary citizens who voted for the "Serve of the People" party, who supported President Zelensky and gave us the opportunity to be here in the hall because we promised to remove the inviolability and promised that there would be no people with special status in the country. Because people with special status are inequity and that's inequality before the law. So I really don't want to talk about what procedural violations are about how to fix them. We have to act in accordance with the law, but we have to keep our promises and we have, you know, not to hide our desire to remain open to procedural issues, because it is our duty to vote this law and put all the people outside this room into equal conditions with those in this room who vote for us. That's the first one. The other one. It is very important for me to talk under the sauce about parliamentary integrity and why we cannot either do it in time or do it wrong to remove it. Everyone has the opportunity to collect 150 signatures and contact the Constitutional Court if there is such a need and an urgent requirement. But I want us not to stop discussing other very important bills, and that Parliament not only be a debate point on parliamentary integrity, because we have very important bills ahead of us, which we will also need to discuss, that is to say, raising the so-called MP's price to 20 deputies whose minimum number can be passed by the law. I think we need to talk and find out if we need this standard. We will need to find out about the decision to move to a proportional voting system. Proportional in what way? Because it can be proportional with closed lists, open lists, or regional majority. And that's all the definitions that I don't see right now in the draft law and in the draft changes that are being made to the Constitution. And I also think that a few other issues of change in the Constitution should be a matter for discussion, not for this whole discussion to be conducted only around the parliamentary integrity that should not exist in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u29	Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to the agenda. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups, we agreed on the agenda of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 3. The order of the day for today has been given to you. I'm betting on the vote on the approval of the agenda for the High Council's day plenary meeting on September 3. Please support and vote. [[10:43:26]] For three hundred 357 - in, in, in, in 0, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with part five of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, decide to continue the plenary session after 18 hours for more than 15 minutes by the Supreme Council at the morning plenary meeting. I propose to continue the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine after 18 hours before the conclusion of the day-to-day agenda on September 3. People's deputies please support and vote. [[10:44:15]] For 317 For 317, versus 0, hold on to 42. Thank you, the decision is made. Let's move on to the first question of the agenda: registration number 7203. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law (Registration No. 7203) amending article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine (with regard to the inviolability of Ukrainian national deputies) is being submitted to your consideration. According to the requirements of part seven of article 149 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! The President of Ukraine, Vladimir Alexandrovich Zelenski, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u30	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say, to Mr. Vadim Rabinovich, once again good day, I heard your beautiful, singing talk. I would like to tell you that the issue of removing parliamentary immunity is being considered, not touching the ground. [[Applause]] Just remind me what you need to remember. Yeah. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! It's said that our science in a state of mourning is not true. Because Ukrainian MPs have made a truly brilliant discovery, they have invented an eternal engine, an eternal engine of political life. It works very simply, first the candidates in the MPs promise to take off the inviolability, then fail the vote, then the people forget, and in the next election the candidates have something to promise. It's been working for almost 20 years, but it's time to go to the history dump. We know that yesterday, during the day and night, some tried to overthrow that vote. I think citizens will figure out who these people are when they see the roll-call vote, and their last names will be written, unfortunately, "against." I want to take away all the myths and all the political manipulations, and the MPs have an identity. They will not be responsible for political decision, for vote, or for any political or public statement. It's about a permit to engage in criminal liability, sorry, but if a deputy beats a man or breaks a amber harvest, or commits any other criminal crime, he should be held accountable. [[Applause]] It is the legislative body of the State, Parliament, not raspberries, where you can hide for five years under the dome. Australia, Britain, Spain, the United States, Canada, Germany, Austria is not a complete list of countries where parliaments do not have immunity from criminal offences. I am now addressing all the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, just do what you have promised for many years to people who are ordinary Ukrainians. [[Applause]] The removal of immunity now requires 90 percent of the citizens of Ukraine, and I strongly advise you not to check the reliability of this figure for use, and to see how many of them will come under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine tomorrow. I believe in you, I believe in the "Serve of the People" Party, I believe in every party of the ninth vocation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Deputy of Ukraine, President of Ukraine, at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Fedir Volodymyrovich Venislavski, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u32	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Honourable People of Ukraine! Today, we can truly become a historic day, because the entire people of Ukraine have been in an unequal position with the people's deputies for decades, and this unequal situation has been related to the very attraction of Ukrainian national deputies to criminal responsibility, as the President has pointed out. This is not about political persecution for the activities of national MPs, it is not about responsibility for parliamentary statements, it is not about the results of parliamentary voting, and that is how national MPs can express their political position. It's about canceling an intact caste that can't be in a civilized country of the world. Our political force, the "Slut of the People" Party, supported by the initiative of the President of Ukraine, decided to use Bill 7203, which was introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the previous President of Ukraine. We could, of course, register a new bill either on behalf of the President, or on behalf of 150 people's deputies, and go through a large procedure -- to the Constitutional Court, to the agenda, to the Constitutional Court, to the conclusion, to the discussion of the conclusion, to the prior approval, and then to the subsequent final approval. Realizing that the people of Ukraine would not wait for such a long period of time, we decided to support the bill passed by the previous authorities. And I'm surprised to hear from some of the representatives that this bill needs to be approached with caution. I have a very simple question: Your Honor, and when you brought it to Parliament, you didn't think you should approach this bill carefully and take into account other aspects, including the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no warning in the conclusion of the Constitutional Court regarding Bill 7203 that our political opponents are talking about. The Constitutional Court merely points out that it is necessary to take into account that the political reality in Ukraine, the functioning of the law-enforcement system, should ensure the normal functioning of Parliament and the normal functioning of the people's deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are to claim that our political legal system, the judicial system that has been reformed, including the previous authorities, whose results today are well appreciated by both international experts and the previous authorities, does not ensure the proper functioning of the judicial system, and therefore there are still some warnings for national MPs, I think these are just political manipulations. Now I'm going to move to legal positions, I'm going to move to legal positions that our opponents are also paying attention to. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine, as the only body with the right to make an official interpretation of the Constitution of Ukraine, has made clear in its rulings that a number of key elements, directly provided for in chapter III of the Constitution of Ukraine, should be respected. The first key thing. A bill to amend the Constitution should be brought before Parliament by an appropriate subject. One of the two subjects defined by the Constitution may be the President of Ukraine and at least 150 national deputies. This part of Bill 7203 fully adheres to the constitutional requirement. The second requirement is required for a bill to amend the Constitution. The bill can be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine if the Constitutional Court of Ukraine finds that it complies with the requirements of articles 157 and 158. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine’s conclusion on Bill 7203 clearly states that the bill meets the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. That is, the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is absolutely positive. There is no reason to claim that we, as national MPs, had no right to consider this bill, does not exist. The third ingredient. The bill should be previously supported by a majority of the constitutional composition of Ukrainian national deputies. The results of the vote at the first session of the newly elected Supreme Council of the ninth vocation, which were presented on the ballot board, which is officially available, indicate that this constitutional requirement for obtaining prior approval by a majority of the constitutional composition was also met. The bill of amendments to the Constitution is considered and adopted as a law no less than two thirds of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the next session. This requirement of the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine are also fully respected. Today, September 3, 2019, the next regular session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes place, as expressly provided by the Constitution of Ukraine. The first Tuesday of September is the next scheduled session, and in this case there is no warning that we have the opportunity to vote for Bill 7203 as a whole. But I would like to emphasize to all the people's deputies, and particularly to draw the attention of the people of Ukraine, that today this bill should be supported by votes of at least two thirds of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This bill requires the submission of 300 or more votes of the national MPs. If this is not the case, God forbid, such a bill can be reintroduced to Parliament not earlier than a year later. And I hope that the political forces that have claimed that they are ready to lift parliamentary immunity will today, by their vote, confirm their political position and their promises to the electorate before the people of Ukraine. And to conclude, I want to focus once again on some of the manipulations of individual MPs on the conclusion of the Venice Commission. The point is that the bill was 7203, registered in the Supreme Council on the eighth call in 2017. The findings of the Venice Commission, to which our opponents appeal, were adopted by this authoritative international body in 2015. To talk about the fact that the conclusion of 2015 somehow makes us appeal to these points, it's completely manipulative. So, ladies and gentlemen, I support this bill, and I urge you all to give your vote for Bill 7203, to accept it as a whole. To consider this bill, we have all the necessary elements, including the conclusion of the Committee on Legal Policy, as the main committee in this bill, which is available to every Ukrainian national deputy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u33	Thank you, Feder Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Olga Volodymyrni Sougiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u34	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy considered, at its meeting on September 2, 2019, Protocol No. 2, submitted by the President of Ukraine as urgent, a bill amending article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine (as regards the inviolability of Ukrainian national deputies) (register No. 7203 of August 30, 2019) and established the following. The purpose of the bill is to improve the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the inviolability of Ukrainian national deputies. The bill proposes that article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine be laid down in a new edition, which annuls the position under which the Ukrainian National Deputies are guaranteed parliamentary immunity, the Ukrainian National Deputies cannot be held criminally, detained or arrested without the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This law is expected to take effect on January 1, 2020. Pursuant to article 159 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, the bill amending the Constitution is being examined by the Supreme Council on the availability of the Constitutional Court's conclusions on the compatibility of the bill with the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution. The Constitutional Court, in its conclusion of June 19, 2018, concluded that the bill amending article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine met the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. By decree of the Supreme Council of 30 August 2019, the bill was previously approved by the majority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Number Set 24-IX. According to the requirements of Article 155 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine, except for Section I of the General Principles, and the Second Elections. The referendum, XIII "Improving Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine", previously approved by the majority of the Supreme Council's constitutional composition, is considered acceptable if at the next session of the Supreme Council, at least two thirds of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted for it. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Legal Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, submitted by the President of Ukraine, as an urgent bill to amend article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine (with regard to the inviolability of Ukrainian national deputies) (registration number 7203 from 30 August 2019) to adopt the law. A panellist at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council appointed the deputy chairman of the committee, Sougir Olga Volodymyrna. Please consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u35	Thank you, Olga Volodymyrna. Olga Volodymyr, I'm sorry. Olga Volodymyr. Olga Volodymyr. Will there be questions for the reporter? They will be. Rules up to 5 minutes. Sign up. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u36	Good afternoon, colleagues, Mr. President! I have a very simple question. I think sometimes when we're discussing this bill, we're talking about one thing, but on two sides. We national MPs, who are absolutely not opposed to this, only mention one thing: please follow the rules of the Rules and the Constitution of Ukraine. Not because we're against it, but because, Vladimir Aleksandrovich, do you understand that there will be national deputies who will sign a motion to the Constitutional Court for annulment? If you fail to follow the full procedure, the Constitutional Court will cancel. I have a simple question: the committee was sitting on September 2nd, we opened the session today on September 3rd, and in the Ukrainian Law on the Rules it is written "in the inter-sessional period it is forbidden to hold committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." You do realize that you already have reason to call off this decision that we are voting on today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u37	Colleagues, this is a question, not a report. Nevertheless, let us stick to the rules. Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u38	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u39	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I see where the national MPs plan and propose to draw our discussion. It's the side of the colossals, the gap and the legal cassuistics. But what I want to say is that in 2000, in Ukraine, there was an All-Ukrainian referendum, one of the issues raised in this referendum was the question of cancelling parliamentary immunity. 90 percent of voters voted in favour of the vote. Can I have 10 seconds? 90 percent of voters voted in favour of the vote. Prove, please, that the law is the will of the only source of authority in Ukraine, the Ukrainian people. And prove it by your vote. [[Applause]] And prove, please, by your vote, that article 5 of the Constitution of Ukraine is worth something in this country.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u41	Thank you. Major Mikola Romanovich, faction of the European Solidarity Political Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u42	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u43	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Sougir, the president in his report pointed out that there is still parliamentary immunity and that it is impossible to attract an MP for political activity. Instead, the law itself, as we have seen, says that inviolability is not limited to interventions in the hall and in the Houses of Parliament. What happens if a national MP goes to a rally, or happens, don't give God, some Majdan or anything else, and the MP wants to go there, and most of the 16 numbers in this room will take the Law to bring him to justice. Would the Constitution protect him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u45	People. Can I answer that, please? Ukrainian national MPs have, except for the immunity that we're going to cancel your identity with you. This identity protects Ukrainian national deputies from them. from the responsibility for their vote, except for responsibility for insult or slander. This is a normal, widespread world practice, and it allows the Ukrainian national deputy to freely express his political position even if he is part of the parliamentary opposition, thus giving him the opportunity to realize all those rights that are enshrined both in the Constitution of Ukraine and in the Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", as well as in other laws governing the activities of the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u46	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u47	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy German Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u48	Give the word to Germany, Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u49	Madam rapporteur, I would still like to hear about whether today is a registered, signed ruling, as if it were adopted by Parliament on that stormy night, about the annulment or recognition of such a thing as effectively losing the power of Decree 2257 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since September 20, 18th, which was recognized as having to send this bill to the committee. And he was directed on the basis of that determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u50	Dear Vassil Ivanovich, this Supreme Council decree has been declared invalid and invalid since Parliament's decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear people. Thank you. Olga Volodymyr. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the debate from the MP factions of the National Deputies. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups for up to 18 minutes. Please sign up. Vašilko Lesia Volodymyrna, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Svetoslav Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u53	Thank you. Celestial Vakarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u54	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the people! During the election, before the results were known and the distribution of Parliament, the Voice party promised its voters to vote for the removal of parliamentary immunity. We didn't know if we were going to have a majority or if we were going to have another situation. We did what we felt was right, according to our beliefs. We really believe that there is a situation in Ukraine where there is a caste of people whose laws are written differently. To them, until recently, were judges, national deputies, and the President. Today we are discussing the abolition of parliamentary immunity as a just solution to the question that all people must be equal before the law. And today, when the situation in Parliament has changed in the political sense that for the first time in history we have a political situation where one faction, controlled by the President, largely alone, can make a lot of changes in the country, we will still vote for the removal of parliamentary immunity. Because for us the political situation will not be ahead of the promises we have made to our electorate, and most importantly our beliefs. But just because the situation in Parliament is today, I would like to address both the President and my colleagues in the majority faction that it is not just a restoration of historical justice today, it is not just a step that we promised our constituents and not just the fulfillment of our promises, but a great responsibility, but for those in power today, a great temptation, however you would not want it to be. Because political life is made up of unpredictable things. And I'd like to warn everyone from this rostrum who can or will do it anyway. Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u55	Let me make a deal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u56	Taking advantage of this temptation and taking advantage of the lack of parliamentary immunity for some or other unwelcome purposes. In 28 years, the Ukrainian people have not, in fact, allowed anyone to cross this red line, in what ways, unfortunately, we know, the Ukrainian people will not allow this to happen now. Just remember when you, honourable national MPs, press a button that has long political life, and justice and law for all must be more than anything for us, and for the MPs, and for the President, and for the judges, and for any Ukrainian citizen, the law is one for all, whether anyone wants it or not. And political relevance should never, as today, stand above this principle, otherwise the people will not forget it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u57	Thank you, Rev. Ivanovich. Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u58	Our faction, like none other, knows what politically motivated decisions are. In this room is Sergey Vlasenko, who was deprived of the status of a national MP who was abolished by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Unfortunately, we cannot now be with Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, who for three years felt that such politically motivated decisions and only the European Court of Human Rights and the Supreme Court of Ukraine had proved that politically motivated decisions had a place in the country. So when some people say that in the 15th year, the Venice Commission's statement that there is, unfortunately, an imperfect legal system, the judicial system is just too much to confirm. But I want to give you other examples, about two dozen deputies, just the previous summons, were deprived of the MP's immunity. For most of them, they were given the right to arrest and arrest, where are they all now? The same people are sitting in the NABU, in the DBD, fortunately, changed the Attorney General, what happened? Do we have judges? Do we have a law enforcement system? But you know, the conclusion will be different, our faction will vote in favour of this law so that we all together, those sitting in this room understand that if we don't immediately reform the D.B.I., the prosecution, the N.A.U.U. system and other organs that are called upon to bring order in a legal way in the state, no one else will ever feel that. I remember very well the adoption of the Constitution in the early 96s. I was at this place in the session room, then there was not enough vote to make sure that the rule of parliamentary immunity was not registered in the Constitution, unfortunately, that was sold out. And yet, in fact, this inviolability along with the unreformed judicial system, the prosecutorial system, and then the newly created organs did the worst possible thing for themselves -- everything you want, and the enemy did the law. For this to not happen, and we need everyone in this room to feel that without reforming this system in the country nothing will change, so we vote in favour, and we insist that we immediately make the first decision that we're going to adopt, because this will now apply to us each of you, it was a decision to reform the legal system, the law enforcement system and the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u59	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. The word is "European Solidarity" by Eugene Nina Petrovna. Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u60	Dear Volodymyr Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, September 3, is really a very important day for Ukraine. I will not repeat that the Ukrainian people have been waiting for the end of the untouchable caste for 25 years. The first important steps in this direction have been taken over the past five years. Once again, 8,000 judges who had absolute immunity and who had almost not passed through the Supreme Council to remove their inviolability were deprived of the inviolability of the previous five years. I want to thank Parliament for the fact that, as a bill on amendments to the Constitution, it was my own bill that I signed. I would like to point out that I have always been and remain a proponent of lifting parliamentary immunity, and in these circumstances, we share the responsibility to ensure the independence of Parliament. Because Parliament is a separate branch of power and to protect Parliament from any political pressure, regardless of law enforcement, judicial or any other body. I would like to point out that the requirements of the Dignity Revolution were precisely to abolish constitutional reform in 96 and to deprive the President of part of his mandate, and to return to the parliamentary-presidential republic. I firmly believe that it should remain within this framework. I don't want to support the position that the conclusions of the Venice Commission are taken into account. To the contrary! Why is this so important? Because the Venice Commission is the only body of the Council of Europe, the European Union, which adapts national legislation to the requirements of the European Union. So if we take our path to membership in the European Union, it is our obligation to harmonise national legislation and adapt it to the legislation of the countries of the European Union. Otherwise it means that we're going the other way. It's absolutely important, because democracy is about following procedure. A committee should not be held during a non-sessional period, nor should members be deprived of the right to introduce alternative bills. You can't do that! The Constitution should unite us. That's what it's about, and that's what it's about. But given the importance of this step, the faction "European Solidarity" will vote in favour of the draft repeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u61	Let me make a deal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u62	A bill under which I am proud to have been introduced by myself, the fifth president of Ukraine. At the same time, I would like to point out that we will be very careful to consider other bills, they raise substantial doubts in us, and I would strongly advise against speeding up this process. Allow MPs to form a single position together. We have unique opportunities to unite the hall. Thank you, and I hope that today my bill will be supported and the parliamentary immunity of 1 January 2020 will be lifted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u63	Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP for the Future, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u64	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Head! Colleagues, the temptation to centralize, usurp and authorize power have always been at the time of an independent Ukraine. And each time these temptations were broken against the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian Parliament. Ukraine, as you know, has twice survived this century two revolutions -- the Orange Revolution and the Dignity Revolution. And each time, the people were a decisive force for change, and each time, the Ukrainian Parliament ensured the constitutionality of these changes. My friends, we must remind ourselves that after the events of the end of the 13th year and the self-removal of Yanukovich from fulfilling his constitutional duties, it is Parliament that has taken fundamental steps to restore the constitutional order, sovereignty and security of an independent Ukraine, to ensure constitutional rights, freedoms and citizens. In fact, this was also the case in the next attempt, unfortunately, and the last fifth president of Ukraine to privatize the parliament that we also survived with you. Unfortunately, the temptation to privatize parliament was in all the former Ukrainian presidents. And in the face of the 4th and 14th years of dictatorship, the MP's intrusiveness allowed, friends, opposition deputies to save the lives of activists, to provide the necessary assistance to illegal detainees, to draw them out of the Kazematians, to make living borders between citizens and the Berkut in 2014, after the Oranges and in the 13th and 14th years. It was and remains a fairly effective mechanism, a tool to protect the interests of civil society. However, we understand, friends, that Mr. Vladimir Zelensky, who was actually elected President of Ukraine, was the third Majdan in the country. And in Ukraine today, there is some revolutionary relevance and necessity, and people's expectation. And we are aware of that, and our "For the Future" MP Group understands the attitude of society, the position of the President of Ukraine as a guarantor of the Constitution, the rights and freedoms of citizens. And we support the lifting of parliamentary immunity today, but we warn the Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian Parliament against creating certain risks to future democracy in Ukraine and the existence of a parliamentary-presidential country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u65	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. [[Applause]] Captiel Roman Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". A card. A card. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Vendikt's Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u67	Irina Valentinovna Venedictova, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u68	Good morning, dear colleagues. Good morning, Mr. President. In fact, we have today really, I think, a festival of parliamentaryism, because parliamentarians are finally fulfilling their political promises and taking on their political responsibility. Yesterday, September 2, the Committee of Legal Policy met for its meeting, and he met urgently, it was not another meeting, on behalf of 14 national MPs, that we needed to do urgent tasks. The day’s schedule, time, and venue were notified in advance to all members of the committee. I want to tell you that of the 23 members of the committee yesterday, 23 members of the committee were present: on registration 22 and then we have 22 to consider. So it can be said that both in form and in fact yesterday, a committee meeting took place. The Committee on Legal Policy has indeed adopted very important conclusions on bill 7203 on the removal of parliamentary immunity, and on other of the 7 very important presidential bills, which have been defined as urgent, in order to send them to the Constitutional Court. It seems to me that you, my fellow Members, and our people of Ukraine will support this desire for deputies and the requirement of law to send the President's bills to the Constitutional Court. So it seems to me that today we simply, really have sincere intentions, understanding that we are acting exclusively within the limits of the law, seeing the Constitution. And today we have heard the oath of a national MP several times. The people who are now elected by the people’s deputies have sworn an oath and have reminded us of this oath of a national MP. So let's not break it. Let's really do it and support these very important things for the country that will not only move it forward, but that will lay the real foundations of parliamentaryism. It's not a simulation of it, it's not a process for the process, it's a result for the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u69	Thank you. Vassil Ivanovich Nimchenko, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u70	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Mr. President! It's a grand predestination! I, Germano Vasil Ivanovich, represent "The Opposition Platform for Life." And first of all, let's say that there's no insinuation, especially in Eurosceptics and Europeans, that my political power, our political power, has been leading the question for almost two years now that we are bound to act clearly in the Constitution. The question is that the inviolability in the sense that it is in the Constitution is a rudimentary norm. Since article 3 and article 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine stipulates that all citizens are equal before the law. And there can't be any more equal because of other norms, whether it's equal to the President, or a more equal national MP, or a nard, or a more equal judge. That's why we've been proposing, and we're proposing that this institution should go back to history, so it should go back to history. For those of you who came to the Supreme Council for the first time, I want to say that it was our platform "For Life" that the political power, the national MPs were addressing, initiating statements to remove responsibility, to remove integrity. That's the first one. And the second. I also want to fill you in on the fact that half of the list of National MPs of the Eighth Call from the political platform "For Life" is under the damocles sword of broken criminal cases. And all of these things have a name for that political character. There are people here who are sitting here, and I'm not going to call them families. I can tell you about myself, including myself, you know what the criminal case is about? For making a proposal to draft a bill on how to build peace on Donbas. This bill is now. See what it's decided to do to hold us responsible for the separatist actions associated with the betrayal of the Fatherland. This is what we are talking about when we say that you are not in a hurry, make a valid decision. And now for 7203. It was very sad to hear that we used Mr. Dustenk's law. This is a disgraceful phenomenon to use a law that has no right to be brought to a meeting, which was decided on September 20, 18th, after a bill from the Constitutional Court came to light with conclusions and warnings that look at.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u71	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u72	There is a question of political responsibility and everything the Constitutional Court has said. But the committee didn't consider it. By virtue of article 147 and article 158 of the Constitution, this bill is not the subject of a review by the Supreme Council. That's what we're talking about. We're saying that the initiative deserves Mr. President, I'm referring to the initiative to remove the inviolability, not the use of the law of the ex-president. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u73	Vasil Ivanovich, regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u74	That's it, I'm done. And so I would like to make sure that when we decide on this issue, we are strictly following constitutional procedures, because the violation of procedures is the basis for declaring the bill unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u75	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a statement from the Ukrainian National Deputies, 9 minutes in a row. Kowalczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Mikola Stefanchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u77	Please give my word to Mikoli Stefanchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u78	Good day, dear fellows. I would like to address the people of Ukraine first. Dear people of Ukraine, we sincerely thank you for your confidence, and today we want to demonstrate that our words will not depart from our actions. I want to go to "The Opposition Platform for Life" and say, today we've heard from you on the rostrum that you're willing to undo the inviolability. So let us prove by your actions that your words do not conflict with your actions. I want to go to European Solidarity and thank you for your support, because this is your bill. And I think that your political conscience and your political responsibility will be directed towards supporting this bill, in support of what the entire Ukrainian people are waiting for. I want to turn to Fatherland, who declared the only vector of political support in the interests of the people. This decision is in the interests of the people. So please support this decision. I want to go to the Voice party. We heard a wonderful performance today by the Saints of Vakarchuk. And these are new faces in Parliament who are ready to change, who are willing to prove that honest people have nothing to fear. And I'm sure by the results of the vote, we'll see that each one of them is doing what is promised. And I'd like to address the non-fractional deputies and the "For the Future" faction. Each of you in the constituencies looked your electorate in the eye and said, "I promise to undo the parliamentary immunity." Today you have a unique chance to keep your word. Please do not sell your conscience, be honest with yourself, be honest with the Ukrainian people, be honest with each Ukrainian. Make sure you're not embarrassed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u79	Thank you, Mikola Alexiovich. The word is given to Southern Nina Petrovney, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u80	Please give the floor to a colleague of Knyazevitch Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u81	Pass the word to Knyazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u82	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Dear colleagues, I am very sorry that our meeting was left by the Head of the Constitutional Court, Natalia Shaptal. And not just because she is the Head of the Constitutional Court, but also because she, during the Constitutional Court's speech on Bill 7203, was the referee and initiator of the conclusion of these warnings. As head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, I have repeatedly participated in these discussions before the Constitutional Court and am well aware of the content of these warnings. For some reason, only one part of the warnings has been sounded stealthily today, and another part has not. And I'm going to allow myself to hear all the warnings of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court said that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of an individual character for the Ukrainian national deputies, but it has a purely public and legal character. Which means that this element is a tool to protect the interests of the electorate represented by this MP. In the absence of this tool, voters will not be able to properly defend their rights in Parliament, the Constitutional Court said. And on the other hand, he referred to the opinion of the Venice Commission, which today is not what it should be and what it is about this bill. Dear colleagues, please look at the history of the Venice Commission's conclusion, it was given about the first draft of the bill, which contained, apart from cancelling the immunity of MPs, the possibility of undoing the inviolability of judges. However, in 2016, the National MPs amended the Constitution in part of the judiciary and, given this, the President simply transposed the bill exclusively in part of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Given these circumstances and considering that the issue of the warnings contained in the Constitutional Court’s decision is not resolved, we have a serious legal coalition. Moreover, it has deepened significantly, given the 2016 decision of the Constitutional Court, which is prohibited from pre-approval of drafts in the first and last sessions, and it is clear that it is possible to approve the drafts in advance only at successive and non-recurrent sessions, we have approved the previous, more specifically, session hall, in the first session of Parliament. Thus, we have another legal conflict that cannot be resolved without the Constitutional Court. So today, I have registered an appropriate draft Order to refer to the Constitutional Court in order to reach a conclusion on how Parliament should reach its conclusion on Bill 7302. Without this kind of explanation, I am convinced that Parliament is making a big mistake when, contrary to the constitutional procedure, it allows for such gross violations. I'll remind 152 articles of the Constitution, in the event of a violation of this kind of constitutional procedure, that's a direct basis for repealing this kind of bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u83	Let me make a deal. Janchenko Galina Igorovna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u84	Thank you for this opportunity to speak to the Ukrainian people for supporting the "Serial of the People" party and for giving this opportunity to prove what many politicians have promised for decades, including politicians present here in the hall. I sincerely hope that this day will enter the history of both Ukrainian Parliamentarianism and Ukraine in general. In fact, civil society has also done a great deal. I remember the gathering of huge protests in 2017, including me. Those who urged parliamentarians, however, to bring the promises to a logical conclusion. And that's why today I'd like to go to my colleagues from Voice, some of which were also accepted, and they also organized these shares in 2017, and to their colleagues from the EU, and thank them for starting this process in 2017. In fact, they had a great deal of time to take into account all the suggestions and observations made by the Constitutional Court. Today's the day, the day that it is. This is the day we have to keep these promises, and it's not a day to say no. Please contact all colleagues of all factions, support this bill and finally fulfill the promises made to the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u85	Thank you. The word is given to Lucenko Irina Stepanovni, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! As the representative of President Poroshenko, who has reported in the previous Parliament his bill on the removal of parliamentary immunity, I am pleased to give the floor to the head of our faction, Irina Herashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u87	Pass the word to Irina Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues! You know, our political power was both in power and opposition. And we were in opposition to Yanukovic's time, when no MP mandate was saved, not even from the oaks of "Berkut". The only thing we could really do with this mandate was go to jail then to try to support our brothers who were there, friends. In fact, it's obvious that parliamentary immunity is a rudimentary thing to be rid of. But today I'd like to talk about what all the colleagues who represent minority factions here have said to make this room more professional and less populism. To prevent the tsunami of populism from overcoming the very small sandy principles of Ukrainian democracy, and we see this today, obviously in fact, that our political power and President Prashenko initiated the removal of the inviolability and we will support it. But we can predict that because of the gross violation of the Rules that took place both in the Committee's holding and in the first session of this important, critical issue for the country. Today, a party of power, because of such thoughtlessness, is created for reasons that will be submitted by another political power to the Constitutional Court and will then be declared unconstitutional. And we don't understand why sometimes it's a form to make a meaningful agreement, if there's more meaning in our decisions, we're going to demonstrate a more European civilized approach. And taking this opportunity, we would like to ask the honourable Mr. President of Greens, from "European Solidarity", to ask that, too, Mr. President Greensky in your office, draft legislation be found in those piles of paper. laws that became more faithful, which became laws: temporary commissions, election lists under the Electoral Code, open lists, open-air rations and plastics, and they were signed. Thank you. And in fact, again and again, we urge that the best way to vote today would be to sign those recommendations that take into account both the Constitutional Court's decision and the Venice Commission, and that's how to vote on where the impunity for criminal crimes is eliminated, but there is still political immunity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u89	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the factions, I have been asked to invite a colleague into the hall so that we are ready to vote. And now, for the final word, we invite the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Olga Volodymyrn Sougir.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u90	Honorary colleagues, the Venice Commission and other important international organizations have repeatedly urged Ukraine to act within the rule of law. Let us prove today by our vote that the rule of law in Ukraine is higher than those warnings that conflict with the rule of law, which seek different political powers to prove to us, in quotes, "the inability to amend the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the abolition of parliamentary immunity." Let us show to all -- to ourselves, to the electorate, to all the political forces that the law is the will of 90 percent of Ukrainian citizens who voted in favour of removing parliamentary immunity in the entire Ukrainian referendum as early as 2000. And let's finally bring our Constitution into line with the rule of law principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u91	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a unique day. Today we actually have a "Lamus Paper" to demonstrate whether it's a worthy Parliament, the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Assembly, the electorate and the votes that have been cast in our behalf. For all the political forces that are represented in Parliament today, because almost everyone has promised to remove the parliamentary integrity. We can put ourselves in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism or ignore the wishes of our citizens and show again that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is ineffective. I hope everything goes out with you, and we won't be ashamed in front of our voters. The discussion is over. According to article 155 of the Constitution, a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine, previously approved by a majority of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is considered to have been adopted if at the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at least two thirds of the constitutional composition of Ukraine, namely 300 national deputies. Let's move on to making a decision. Please prepare for the vote. In accordance with article 155 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part 8 of article 149 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure puts to the vote a proposal for the adoption of the whole draft Law (registration number 7203) amending article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the integrity of Ukrainian national deputies. Please support and vote. [[11:44:40]] For 373 The law is passed. [[Applause]] Show me the factions, please. "Serviary of the People" – 252, "Response Platform" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 24, "Fatherhood" – 23, "For the Future" – 22, "Voice" – 19, "non-factional" – 33. Thank you all very much, colleagues. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have a 12-hour recess scheduled. I suggest you do it now, 15 minutes early and start our work at 12:15. If there's no objection, I suggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's get started. I understand the holiday mood you all have after we've accepted 7203, but we've got a lot of work to do. Let's work. Dear colleagues, take your seats, please. Dear colleagues, I suggest you continue. A bill (registration number 1013) to amend the Constitution of Ukraine (registration of the legal monopoly) is being submitted to our consideration. According to the requirements of part one of article 146 of the Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. Honourable National Deputies, the word for the report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Fedor Volodymyrovich Venislavski. Colleagues, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u93	The Honourable Presidium, the Honourable People's Deputies, the President of Ukraine, was introduced for consideration by the Parliament of the Ninth Call, a bill that received registration number 1013 and a conditional title for the abolition of the legal monopoly. The point is that the President proposes to amend article 131-2 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which an exclusive lawyer represents the interests of another person before a court. All other features of article 131-2 remain in the correct order. I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished national deputies to a few key points related to this bill. The first key point. This is about the conditional title of the law on the legal monopoly. This conditional title of the bill is based on the fact that only a lawyer was given the right to represent the interests of another person. And a person who is a lawyer but does not have the right to engage in legal activities has no such authority today. And this actually means that there is a certain monopolization of the legal services market to represent the interests of another person in a court of law on the sole part of lawyers. That is what the title of the law on the abolition of the legal monopoly was. First. The other one. This is about removing from article 131-2 the position that concerns representing the interests of another person. A position that provides that only a lawyer protects a person from criminal charges remains in article 131-2. In addition, the bill proposes to exclude from Section XV "Transitional positions" sub-paragraph 11, paragraph 16-1. Paragraph 16-1 of Section XV of the Constitution of Ukraine stipulates that, as of 1 January 2020, a lawyer or prosecutor has exclusively represented the interests of state authorities and local self-government authorities in the courts. In fact, from January 1st of the following year, government authorities, local self-government authorities will be deprived of the legal capacity to represent their interests by appropriate government officials, local government authorities, and will be forced to enter into legal agreements, legal services agreements, and to use exclusively lawyer services to represent their interests in the courts. It is clear that the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine of 1 January 2020 cannot physically and legally obtain it because, as with today's bill on the abolition of parliamentary immunity, there is a need for prior approval of not less than half. most of the constitutional composition, I'm sorry, and the final approval in the next session by two thirds of the votes. So we realize that since January 1st, public authorities and local self-government will still face the challenge of representing their interests as lawyers. But in the future, when this bill becomes effective, and we hope that we will be able to consider it, to approve it in advance at this session, and at the next one, which will begin on the first Tuesday of February 2020, to establish it as a law, it will deprive the authorities of the State and local self-government authorities of their actual duty to seek legal services and allow them to represent their interests in the courts of professional lawyers, which are very much in the authorities of the local self-government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u94	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, will there be questions for the rapporteur? If so, please sign up. Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, faction of the European Solidarity Political Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u95	Please pass the word to Prince Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u96	Turn on the Knyazevich microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u97	My dear reporter, I am truly grateful that you have indicated that there is a real problem, and this problem is not of a regular nature, it is that we will have this standard as of January 1, 2020. And I'll tell you more, I don't know if you're aware, but the authorities and self-government are already preparing in accordance with the rules of the Constitution and a series of laws that this rule will be implemented, it needs to be implemented. There's going to be adequate funds, and in the government budget next year, you're not going to be able to predict this amount, because this kind of change to the Constitution is hypothetical, and we don't know if it's going to happen. And to tell the authorities or the government not to do that is to violate the Constitution. How to get out of this coalition, and it's not only material in nature, and I think it can be constitutionally legitimate, because we don't know how the Constitutional Court will react because you're allowing the possibility of a reverse norm of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u98	Thank you for asking. The point is that, really, since January 1, as I said in my report, the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the representation of the interests of another person, either solely as a prosecutor or solely as a lawyer, will act. And of course, the budget for the following year will have to provide for the corresponding costs. But we are initiating a review of this bill, more faithfully, putting it into the agenda and sending it to the Constitutional Court in order to minimize the amount of time it takes for the budgetary resources of the public authorities and local self-government authorities to be paid for the services of a lawyer. So it's clear that a certain period of time is going to work, but problems, constitutionally legal consequences, as well as budgetary, other negative effects, we don't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u99	Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u100	Thank you. I give the floor to Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u101	Pass the word to Ruslan Knazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u102	Thank you. Let's continue the discussion if you'll excuse me. I have a question of a different nature. In fact, the institution of the so-called monopoly, although very conditional, and I would recommend you to refrain from such definitions in the laws of amendment to the Constitution, because they are very arbitrary interpretations, but this is a question of this kind. linguist. I have a question of a different nature. We, Ukraine, offered to introduce such an institution, offered to introduce the Venice Commission. And I've offered to introduce, along with another institution called free legal aid, which, I remind you, has been working successfully in the country for the third year now, and there are hundreds of millions of dollars in each state budget, and this year, billions of dollars for it to function properly and our citizens' interests to be ensured. What's going to happen to this institution? Because they are inextricably bound. We can't just leave this institution when we remove the first priority of its creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u103	Thank you for asking. The free legal aid institution will in no way be dependent on making changes to this article of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Institute of Free Legal Assistance is aimed at providing citizens of Ukraine who do not have the physical financial capacity to pay for the services of a lawyer with primary and, in cases provided for by law, secondary legal assistance free of charge, this law remains valid, no one questions it, and it will continue to act. But the very motive, one of the reasons, for bringing this bill to Parliament and recognizing it as an urgent matter is that in one of Europe's poorest countries, at the level of citizens' income, it is not right to provide a legal monopoly to represent any interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u104	Thank you. Oddczuk Andri Petrovich, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u105	Dear reporter! As a person who is governed by the terminology of the law, the law specialist is very cool about such a conditional notion as a lawyer's monopoly. But I don't really understand exactly how such an important document can be taken in terms of actually violating the regulatory procedures that were adopted here on the 29th to 30th night by a majority. Similarly, as I understand it, there are no conclusions from mandatory committees that are equally required by procedure. Please express your view of the violation of the Rules on these changes to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u106	Thank you for asking. No violations of the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" in the formation of the agenda, when these bills are introduced and considered, are currently not allowed. The point is that today, honourable national deputies, you and I are not considering the substance of the bills to amend the Constitution. The Supreme Council is currently considering exclusively the inclusion of these bills in the agenda and the referral to the Constitutional Court to obtain conclusions. In fact, bills are not being considered. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, a constitutional procedure for the review of approval, the taking of laws, must be followed. We're not talking to you today, we're talking only about the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Hence, there is no legal basis for discussing any violation of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u107	Thank you, Feder Volodymyrovich. A member of the Committee on Legal Policy, Alexander Aleksandrovitch Netezko, is given the floor for a report within 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u108	Honorary Presidium, Honourable Deputies, Fellows, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, as instructed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 30 August 2019, considered at its meeting on 2 September 2019 Protocol No 2, submitted by the President of Ukraine as urgent, a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the abolition of the legal monopoly (registration No. 1013 of 29 August 2019), and established such a bill. First, the purpose of the amendments proposed by the bill is to ensure everyone's right to receive professional legal assistance through the abolition of the legal monopoly and the provision of such assistance. The proposed legislative initiative aims to make the necessary changes to the Constitution of Ukraine with regard to the abolition of the legal monopoly, namely article 131, marked 2, as well as the deletion of subparagraph 11, paragraph 16, marked 1, section XV, "Transitional positions". In order to achieve its goal, the bill proposes to abolish the legal monopoly, namely, to exclude the position of part four of article 131, which is marked 2 of the Constitution, according exclusively to which a lawyer represents another person in a court of law. In this connection, it is proposed to delete: (a) part five of article 131, marked 2 of the Constitution of Ukraine, under which exceptions may be laid down in respect of representation in court, labour disputes, disputes concerning the protection of social rights, elections and referendums, minor disputes, as well as the representation of minors or minors who have been declared ineffective by the court, or whose effectiveness is limited; (b) paragraph 11 of paragraph 16 of section XV, “Transitional positions”, according to which, from the date of entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, on justice. Representation in accordance with article 131.1, paragraph 3, and article 131. 2 The Constitution of Ukraine is implemented exclusively by prosecutors or lawyers in the Supreme Court and the courts of the court of cassation since January 1, 2017. In the Courts of Appeal of 1 January 2018, the Courts of the First Instance of 1 January 2019. According to part two of article 145 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the committee reached the following conclusions within the subject matter of knowledge. First. According to article 154 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, a bill has been submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as an appropriate subject of the legislative initiative, that is, the President of Ukraine. The other one. The adoption of the bill submitted in accordance with article 154 of the Constitution of Ukraine does not require the systematic unity of the Constitution of Ukraine to amend Chapter I of the General Principles, Chapter III of the Elections and Referendum, and chapter HS of the "Introduction of Changes to the Constitution of Ukraine". Third. The Committee considers that the bill meets the requirements of article 156 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the resubmission of a bill to amend the chapters: And the Third and HSH of this Constitution from the same question is only possible to the Supreme Council for the next call. Four. A preliminary analysis of the bill makes it possible to believe that there are no or similar positions, as have the previous findings and decisions of the Constitutional Court, have been recognized as nullifying or restricting the rights and freedoms of a person and a citizen or aimed at eliminating independence or violating Ukraine’s territorial integrity. Fifth. The committee has reason to believe that the provisions of the bill meet the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Six. The Committee is of the view that the issues established by the lawyers of the excluded right to represent themselves before the court do not belong to the social relations of the constitutional level of regulation and the adoption of the bill will contribute to the optimization of the mechanism of access to professional legal assistance. Seven. In the Committee's view, the provisions of the bill are fully set out, clearly and irrefutable and will allow for a systematic settlement of the relevant social relations at the constitutional level, the bill will not require acceptance of proposals and amendments, including drafting and clarification. Eight. The Committee considers it inappropriate to send a bill to a scientific, legal or other expert to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to refer to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Finally, the ninth. The Committee considers it inappropriate to publish a bill for public discussion in advance of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to refer the bill to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Taking into account article 146 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Legal Policy recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration No. 1013 of 29 August 2019) include in the agenda of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the ninth call (registration No. 1013 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine) to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to reach a conclusion on its compliance with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. A panellist at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine identified a member of the Committee of the Network of Alexander Alexandrovich. Thank you for your attention. Let's take a look at this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u109	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Just a minute. Will there be questions for a coconspirator? It won't? Are we moving on? Let's move on to the discussion from the MPs, the national MPs. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Thanks again, Alexandre Alexandrovich. The word is given to Velikochovich Mikoli Romanovich. Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Today we are discussing this bill, and I would like to say immediately that the faction of the political party "European Solidarity" will support the vote on the inclusion of this bill in the agenda of the session and on the referral of this bill to the Constitutional Court for conclusion. But what I would like to say is that today we are talking about this bill for one reason, because after the constitutional reform in the field of justice was carried out, unfortunately, we did not adopt the draft law on the judiciary before the Supreme Council, where all the questions that the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Constitutional Court today would have reported from this rostrum were clearly stated. So I would like to say that we will necessarily support and ask for everyone's support, but after it is sent to the Constitutional Court to reach a conclusion, I would recommend that we start a broad discussion with experts, with the public, with lawyers, because there are really many points that we cannot allow, and one of the key points is that there is free legal aid. It's an institution that's really important to citizens, and if each of you were to communicate with ordinary citizens, he knows how many ordinary people took advantage of this service and were very pleased because they would never have gotten it in their lives, if they were to these lawyers, fairly professional and with great knowledge, coming from the streets and money. That is why the political power of Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko "European Solidarity" will support this bill of inclusion in the agenda and referral to the Constitutional Court, but then we will speak and demand a broad public discussion, discussion with experts, with the public community. And we're also going to insist that none of the positive things about what we're taking right now be removed, like free legal aid to citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u111	Thank you. Dmitry Valeriovich Lubinets, MP for the Future, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head! I want to say that the parliamentary group "For the Future" will support the voting on this bill's referral to the Constitutional Court to reach a conclusion. I want to tell you that we all respect lawyers, and after we've all voted for the removal of parliamentary immunity, probably a lot of our colleagues will go to them. But we really do support the logic: why a person who has a legal education but does not have a parliamentary certificate cannot defend himself in court on his own. That's the first one. The other one. The monopoly of lawyers has greatly increased the services of lawyers in Ukraine. By removing this monopoly, prices are actually going to go down, let's say, and there's going to be people's choices, all of which is that we all understand that the wealth of our citizens, they want better. So the logic: there'll be more competition, prices will be lower, lawyers who just got a degree in law schools can, they can represent people in any direction, except criminal trials in courts. Clearly, then, there is logic. We support and support the President. I'm absolutely sure there will be 226 votes in this room today. Again, I would like to point out why, again, the meeting of the Legal Committee was held yesterday during the inter-sessional period. Why couldn't we wait for today, tomorrow, to meet with the committee, and absolutely without violating the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure, to consider these bills in the session room? So once again, I stress that if we want to do something useful for our citizens, everyone voted for us, it's very good. But don't forget that there are practical rules of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules that can't be violated, because in the same way we question our votes and we also give the political parties that won't support us, then we accuse all the votes in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. That's why we vote yes, and we ask for everyone's support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u113	Thank you. Laba Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u114	I fully support this bill of inclusion in the agenda. I would like to point out that, really today, the instrument for the protection of state authorities and our citizens is the appropriate institutions, and after the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has concluded, the bill will also be implemented. And I believe that with regard to local authorities, not everyone is ready to start financing this kind of expenditure right now from the new year. There are many problems in local self-government in Ukraine, and those who want legal aid, legal aid, make a civil-law agreement to resolve such disputes, as provided for in the Law on Lawyers, article 4, for the time being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u115	Thank you. Here's the invitation to Pippa Natalia Romanovna, the faction of the political party "The Voice."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u116	Good afternoon, fellow officers, the Voice faction. I'm very supportive of the idea of such a law, but I think it's very underworked right now, and we are, because, first of all, there was no time to introduce other alternative bills. We think he needs work and especially at the moment that the possibility that a person will now represent himself in the courts and we in Ukraine have very little confidence in the courts, that this will not make it even more possible to serve the lawyers. That's why we support this idea, but once again we call for the drafting of this law and the possibility of introducing alternative bills. In this case, as it is now, we are not ready to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u117	Thank you. Puzanov Alexander Hennadyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u118	Good day, dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium. On behalf of the opposition platform for life, I want to express our position on the bill proposed for consideration today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. During the first question of the agenda, many speakers said, "One law for all." I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council Rules are also the law. It must be carried out by all: both opposition, and majority, and chairman, and heads of committees. Not even a very good thing can be done in a way that is contrary to the Rules, in violation of the Rules, in violation of the right of national MPs to introduce alternative bills. The deadline for introducing such drafts has not yet come to an end. You cannot consider and adopt such bills on a committee during an inter-sessional period. This is also a violation of the Rules. You can't solve such an important issue without getting suggestions, opinions and conclusions from the expert environment, the scientific and expert environment, the legal associations themselves. So by performing a function that is in opposition, and we all know that the main function of the opposition is to control the authority, to control compliance with the legislature, I want to say that we will not vote, to support this bill, because the authorities want to conduct it through the Supreme Council Hall with violations of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u119	Thank you. Tsimbaluk Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u120	Please pass the word to Angelica Labunski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u121	We give the word to Angela Labunsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u122	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Presidium! Good afternoon, our citizens! I want to say that the "Paternity" faction will have to support this law today and beyond. I think if you look at the list of MPs today, I'm very glad that a lot of colleagues are lawyers today. I think all of us have faced this monopoly in recent years that the previous authorities have tried to create in the bar, too. And if the previous speaker said that, unfortunately not accepted, I can tell from many colleagues, from many citizens, thank God that they did not adopt the law that was before, and were going to reform the prosecutor's office. I think that there are many Chinese and very many people who know that today thousands of lawyers, unfortunately, find themselves in a conflict concerning today's city council of lawyers, that today people who don't have a relationship at all can't share power with each other, and today lawyers are coming to court, and today they must be in the register. They are simply not allowed because some organs accept one register and others accept another. I want to go to most people and I want to ask you, I think it's going to be the wish of all voters, that after the disengagement of the monopoly on legal practice, access to the profession, you will still review another aspect of the protection of our citizens in court -- today is the size of the court. Because today the previous court body was set up on such a percentage that today a person who simply wants to seek the protection of his rights to the courts does not have the means to pay the congregation today. Many live in the capital, and they do not know what is happening in the regions. You go first, you say, well, free legal aid. But there are exceptional occasions when legal aid is provided free of charge. What, though, can people in a village do to people in small towns where there is an unforeseeable need for legal assistance? What about going to a person with a legal education and filing an application and then looking for money to pay the court and then to another lawyer to pay the money to represent the interests of the court? I think it's a very good law, and it's only the first half. I'm asking you very much, look at it again, and it also needs an urgent, I think when you adopt the budget, you're going to turn around or you're going to redefine certain categories of citizens who are going to be liberated from the judicial assembly, or the suspension, or in some way to make access to justice available to people today. I think it's just the first step towards law school. And the Fatherland party will continue to support these changes today and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u123	Thank you, Angela Victoria. But I'd like to ask my colleagues to be. More respect was given to their own, and representatives of their parties and other parties were still working. That's what I'm saying to the Servants of the People. Colleagues, please let's work, take your seats. Thank you. And other political parties. When a person comes out of the rostrum, he has to listen to what he says. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a statement by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Papiev Mihailo Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u124	Thank you. The country's honourable nationals, the citizens of Ukraine, today such a busy day, are the main laws of Ukraine to amend the Constitution of Ukraine. And, you know, that's how I see you, I'm happy for your mood, but at the same time, it's getting sad because I have one question, and what prevents us from considering these bills next week and meeting the standards of the Constitution and the Rules of Ukraine? What is the rush, and what do we decide today? And I'm going to explain why I'm asking such a simple question, because in fact today's consideration, it's not just breaking the Rules, because you see, you've given us a decision by the committee since September 2. Explain to me when in the transcript, you can look at it, in the transcript of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it was already 2 p.m. 12 minutes August is clearly written words by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who announced that the beginning of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine would take place on September 3rd, and the first session would be closed at 2 p.m. by 30 minutes. Then we read 82 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly states, "The Supreme Council of Ukraine is working sessionally." So the committee that took place in 2 numbers is a totally worthless committee, because we have this inter-sessional period. The Supreme Council cannot convene committees, confirm conclusions during the inter-sessional period. Take a look at the Constitution of Ukraine. The second question. Honorable colleagues, and perhaps this issue will be the main issue during the hearing of the Constitutional Court. If the Constitution gives me, as a representative of the Ukrainian people, the right to legislative initiative, and if you violate my right to introduce an alternative bill, it is a direct violation of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian MPs, who today will vote for such incomprehensible reasons. I urge you to do one thing. Well, look, we're voting today because I see you're in such an absolutely inspired mood. Let's vote. What do we gain from this? Three days to win, four days to win? But we could do the same thing on Tuesday next plenary week. You know, the calendar plan has been approved. But we would look each other in the eye and say that we have adhered to the Constitution of Ukraine. The same question of the previous decision that was taken. Well, your honor, I think this hap will soon pass, because there are decisions to be made and I really don't want to see who will be accused afterwards and that's the right of others.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u125	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u126	Who will be accused in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And the Constitutional Court of Ukraine will have to if there is no telephone rights there, both in previous times, yes, it will have to make an absolutely legitimate decision and cancel those decisions that you have stressed in such a hurry, although I would basically support them as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u127	Thank you. Pavlovsky Peter Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u128	Please pass the word to Vendikt's Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u129	Irina Vendiktov, political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u130	Thank you so much for giving me your word. It's really nice to continue after this position of colleague. With regard to violations of the rights of members of the people to submit alternative bills. Dear people's deputies, by no means, come on, pass alternative bills. You remember that we have these changes to the Constitution, we need to collect 150 signatures and bring them in, and as soon as that happens, we're going to get together and we're going to consider this bill, this is the first time. Second, the committee did not in any way consider the bill in substance. The question was, and you have these materials on your hands, on the agenda, on the agenda, on the agenda, to pass on to the Constitutional Court. Are we against such an important bill being passed on to the Constitutional Court? No, of course we don't mind. So there are no violations, there are no restrictions on the rights of the people's deputies, we continue to work at the same very fast but absolutely legitimate pace, this is the first time. Secondly, what about the immediate, so-called, abolition of the legal monopoly? It's about access to justice. We understand that Ukraine is a state number one in Europe, to which there are many questions about access to justice. That's why we give our citizens more opportunities to get, nevertheless, just justice decisions. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u131	Colleagues, we're loading the Rada system now. People's MP, Your Honor, non-fractional, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u132	Sergey the Great, Luganschina, 112th District. With regard to this bill, I have made a statement to the Committee on Legal Policy, and I now give the floor to Mrs. Klimpush-Cincadze, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u133	Mrs. Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u134	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, apart from the Main Committee, these draft legislative decisions, the amendments to the Constitution have also been considered by several additional committees, such as the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy and the Committee on Integration of Ukraine into the European Union. So I would like to inform you and ask you to take account of your vote, and you, Mr. Head, to take this matter into account, with regard to all the changes to the Constitution of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine into the European Union, given that the provisions of all these laws relate to democratic principles, the rule of law and the functioning of democratic institutions in the state. We, as a committee, have decided what is necessary, and we consider it appropriate, to appeal to the European Commission for democracy through the right of the Venice Commission to reach a conclusion on the compatibility of the draft law with European standards and values. And also because these bills have not been widely discussed among the population, among the different groups whose interests are affected by these bills. Since there has not been a Constitutional Commission that can initiate such changes after a thorough discussion, we consider and we initiate joint hearings together, with, and we ask the Legal Policy Committee that the joint hearings of the two committees should be conducted with broad participation and the public, and international experts. And we hope that colleagues from another committee will meet us, understanding the importance of the proposed changes by the President of Ukraine regarding all the changes that are being proposed today on behalf of the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u135	Thank you. The People's Deputy of Ukraine, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Court of Cassation of Ukraine Fedir Volodymyrovich Venislavski, is invited to the closing statement. Feder Volodymyrovich! Just a minute. Feder Volodymyrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u136	Dear National Deputies! My apologies were political discussions with our political opponents, so he stayed a little longer. As for the bill on the removal of the legal monopoly and the remarks that our colleagues have just told us, I would like to point out the following. First, I stress that today the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not accede to the bill on amending the Constitution of Ukraine. The Constitution of Ukraine states that the basis for declaring the law unconstitutional is a violation of the constitutional procedure for its consideration of the acceptance of validity, which is the norm of the Constitution. There is another imperative requirement in the Constitution that a bill amending the Constitution can be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I stress, is a direct norm of the Constitution, once the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has reached its conclusion. Rules that provide that some may be observed. There must be other points, in this case, for us, from the point of view, constitutional. constitutionality, constitutionality assessments have no value. With regard to the alternative bills, the honourable, no restrictions on the right of Ukrainian MPs, as already stated by my colleague Venedict, to submit alternative bills in this case, has been established. People's deputies can quietly gather the necessary number of votes to draft the bill, and it will be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, I ask the Ukrainian People's Deputies to vote in favour of the bill to abolish the legal monopoly in the agenda of the day session and to refer it to the Constitutional Court to obtain a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u137	Thank you. [[Applause]] Alexander Alexander’s Network is invited to conclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I have studied this question from a scientific point of view, from a comparative point of view, from a historical point of view, and I have come to the conclusion as a scientist that this project is really progressive, and it provides opportunities for an average citizen in Ukraine to effectively defend their rights. I think it's a question of cancelling a lawyer's monopoly, not just from the point of view of professional lawyers. Of course, their point of view should be taken into account, but it is vital that we focus on the average citizen. The state should not impose a monopoly, it should give an opportunity, although there is a risk here, I agree that it should allow a citizen to choose his own mechanisms for protecting his rights. So I join my colleagues in thinking, and I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u139	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Please. Your Honor, please insert the cards and prepare for the vote. Let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with article 146 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I am voting for the adoption of the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 1013/P) on the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call for a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine (for the annulment of the legal monopoly) and on its referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. People's deputies please support and vote. [[13:13:36]] For 337 Thank you, the decision is made. [[Applause]] For 337, against - 1, holding - 28. Show me the factions, please. The decision is taken, the decision is taken as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you move on to the question (registration number 1014). The draft Act (Registration No. 1014) amending Article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine (to consolidate the powers of the President of Ukraine to establish independent regulators, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, to appoint and relieve the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation) is being submitted to your consideration. According to the requirements of part one of article 146 of the Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. For the report, the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Fedor Volodymyrovich Venislavski, is given to the Ukrainian national deputy. Feder Volodymyrovich, may I have your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u140	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The President introduced to Parliament a bill with registration number 1014, registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, amending article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which would provide for the right of the President of Ukraine to form two types of public authorities after they became effective. The first type of body is independent regulators that carry out state regulation, monitoring the activity of operators in particular areas. What are we talking about? It's about what's in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, please let's be a little quieter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u142	This is about the fact that under the current laws of Ukraine, the President has the right to appoint positions, to resign, to form certain regulators. But the Constitution of Ukraine stipulates that the President exercises the exclusive powers provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. On this basis, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has declared that it does not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine, the National Commission for the Regulation of the Market in Municipal Services, energy on the grounds that the President does not have the constitutional right to form such an organ. In addition to state regulation in the field of energy, independent regulators can monitor, state regulation, and control in other areas. For example, it is a market in financial services, a market in securities, an information market, information services, and so on. Appropriately, so that we do not question the possibility of forming such organs and the possibility of forming their personal composition on the part of the President, it is proposed that article 106 be supplemented by this particular provision. In addition, there is now a law governing the activities of the National Anticorruption Bureau of Ukraine and the State Bureau of Investigation. Under the valid laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is also stipulated that the President has the right to be appointed as Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and Director of the State Bureau of Investigation. The procedure is prescribed by law, but in article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution for today's President's mandate to appoint such positions in such very important bodies for the Ukrainian State as to ensure the fight against corruption, and in accordance with the law enforcement body, which is the central authority of the State's executive branch, the State Bureau of Investigation, the President's absence. That is why it is proposed to complete the Constitution in order to avoid the possibility of initiating the Constitutional Court and considering the constitutionality of the President's respective powers. With regard to this bill, it has also been concluded by the Legal Committee, which is open to all national MPs, so we request that this bill be considered, placed in the agenda and sent to the Constitutional Court for its conclusion of compliance with the requirements of articles 156, 157. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u143	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. Will there be questions for the reporter? Yeah. Please sign up for questions. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u144	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please give the word to Prince Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u145	Give the word to Prince Ruslan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear Feder Volodymyrovich, I thank you for your professional and interesting discussion of how I, which we started on the committee yesterday, continued in the session room today. I asked you a question yesterday, I think there's a point today to repeating it. It's the next act. You will recall that in 2014 the Venice Commission considered a similar standard of draft law amending the Constitution, which already provided for compliance, the possibility of appointing a head of the State Bureau of Investigation. There was no National Anticorruption Bureau at the time. So they could not date their evaluation. But they gave their assessment at the queen of the State Bureau of Investigation. That's what the Venice Commission said. They said that such a possibility of appointment as a single-person president was a gross violation of the relevant standards of the Council of Europe. And Ukraine has been recommended for the prospect of joining the process by a representative body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as already provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine for appointment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u147	Let me make a deal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u148	for the appointment of the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, because Parliament appoints him and releases him for the appointment of the President and for the appointment. and the release by the President of Ukraine of the Attorney-General in agreement with Parliament. Do you consider it appropriate to follow this recommendation of the Venice Commission and to establish a similar procedure for the leadership of the NAB and the DBR? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u149	Thank you for asking. Let's continue yesterday's discussion, as you said. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee on Legal Policy, I have already said that the participation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is, apart from being the only body of legislative authority, is actually a body of political representation, means that we, in the same way, are to ensure the fight against corruption and to carry out a fair investigation into certain areas of crime related to their competence, to appoint these leaders, we will have a projection of political relevance. That's why we think that in order to ensure the maximum independence of these bodies, that's exactly the procedure that's set out in that project that's being submitted by law. The bill tabled by the President is the most optimal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u150	Thank you. Belkova Olga Valentinovna, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u151	Thank you, Mr. Head! Thank you, too, for reporting. I have a question. Indeed, it is very important to regulate institutional status in the Constitution of all regulators and all college bodies. At the same time, I am surprised that you referred to the decision of the Constitutional Court that provided clarification on the energy regulator, according to the NCRECR. But the same decision also pointed out the need to regulate the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Nevertheless, it is in this bill that this issue is not affected. I hope that the next bill from the President will also be a bill that would authorize the Supreme Council. Because I sincerely hope that the role of the Supreme Council will not become engrossed in the appointment of all the college bodies. Please tell me when this bill will be submitted?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the subject of a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine is no less than 150 national deputies of Ukraine, except for the President. If your political power deems it necessary to introduce a bill that foresees the participation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the formation of the governing body of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the State Bureau of Investigation, you can take advantage of the rights of the people's deputies and submit an appropriate bill for consideration by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u153	Thank you. Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, faction of the European Solidarity Political Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u154	Mr. Reporter, please tell me this bill foresees the creation of regulators by the President of Ukraine. In this way, the reason for the wording proposed there is that it substantially expands the mandate of the President of Ukraine and is potentially creating an imbalance between the branches of power in our state. Tell me, please, how can you argue this, and how long do you see this threat to the balance of the Constitution? And secondly, I would like again, on behalf of the Committee on the Integration of Ukraine into the European Union, to stress our insistence, on our recommendation to send this bill to the conclusion and analysis of the Venice Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u155	Thank you for asking. With regard to your first question about balancing the powers of public authorities. There will be no balance of powers in this case. We, the honourable people's deputies, I mean the president and the president's team, who passed this bill, admitted that it was urgent, only to remove the imbalances that had been established by the previous authorities. The previous authorities have passed laws on the State Bureau of Investigation, on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, on the National Commission for the Regulation of the Community Services Market, and so forth, directly against the requirements of the Constitution, that the President appoints these persons in the same way, setting a mine under the legitimacy of the President's actions. In order to avoid such doubts about the legitimacy of the President's actions with the appointment of appropriate officials, this bill is proposed and proposed. As far as the conclusion is concerned. To the Venice Commission, this is Parliament's mandate, make proposals, Parliament votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u156	Thank you. Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to a member of the Committee on Legal Policy, Alexia Vladimirovich Kucher.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u157	Thank you, colleagues. I fully support the position of the reporter. Before I announce my position, I would like to point out that, as a result of the debate that has arisen, this is essentially a rhetorical question. Dear colleagues who were in the previous call and when President Prashenko appointed in an unconstitutional manner and created appropriate bodies, where were you with these questions? Can you give me that answer, where have you been with these questions? Now let's move on. The Bureaux Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 30 August 2019, considered at its meeting on 2 September 2019, this is protocol 2 submitted by the President of Ukraine as urgent, a bill amending article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine on establishing the powers of the President of Ukraine to establish independent regulators, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, and to appoint and relieve the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation (registration No. 114 of 29 August 2019) and established the following: "The purpose of the bill of amendments is to optimize the powers of the head of the State with a view to establishing a real mandate for the Office of Anti-Governmental Authorities, the purpose of the independent decision-making bodies of the U. Establish a National Anti-Corruption Bureau in accordance with the law, appoint and relieve the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, establish independent regulators who carry out State regulations, monitoring and control of the activities of operators in separate areas, appoint and release their members in accordance with the Ukrainian Law. According to part two of article 145 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the committee reached the following conclusions within the subject matter of knowledge. In accordance with article 154 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, a bill has been submitted to the Supreme Council by an appropriate subject of the legislative initiative, the President of Ukraine. The Committee believes that the bill meets the requirements of article 156 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the resubmission of a bill amending Chapters I, III, XIII of the Constitution from the same issue is possible only to the Supreme Council for the next appointment. Acceptance. The committee has reason to believe that the provisions of the bill meet the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill will establish real powers for the President of Ukraine to establish independent regulators. In the Committee’s view, the provisions of the bill are fully, clearly, irrefutable and will allow for the systematic regulation of appropriate social relations at the constitutional level. The bill does not require adoption of proposals and amendments, including drafting and clarification. Here I emphasize that no changes were made by our political opponents yesterday. The Committee considers that it is not appropriate to send a bill for scientific and legal or other expertise to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to refer to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In keeping with article 146 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Legal Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as an urgent matter, that the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine should appoint and release the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the Director of the National Bureau of Investigation (registration No. 114 of 29 August 2019) to include in the agenda of the day of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the Ninth Call and to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for its conclusion on the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution. A reporter for this issue at the High Council plenary meeting identified me as a member of the Kucher Alexi Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u158	Thank you, Alexy Volodymyrovich. If you don't mind, I'd like to move immediately to a discussion between the MPs and the national MPs. Questions to the rapporteur? All right, sign up for the question to the reporter. Belkova Olga Valentinovna, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Nevertheless, I would like an answer from the party of power. Does the party of power today see any involvement of the higher legislative body, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the further creation of all the college bodies? The reporter just said that we are opponents, I don't think, I actually think that the bill presented today is one that could be supported. At the same time, I ask, will there be a similar bill to regulate all powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Will the President alone now determine all that the Supreme Council has previously joined, including? Please give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u160	Thank you. As soon as my colleague has answered your question, the answer is pretty simple, you have the right to legislative initiative, please, if you think it's necessary to initiate as soon as possible. Today we are looking at this particular bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u161	Grandmaster Mikola Romanovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u162	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u163	Pass the word to Ruslan Knazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u164	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Mikola. Your Honor, I don't know if you'll be able to answer this question, because I haven't been able to ask this question to the representative of the subject of the legislative initiative, but the question of the next act. Please tell me, why is it possible to appoint two managers, but to create just one body, in a project submitted by the subject of the legislative initiative? Although we have both the D.B.R. and the N.A.U.A. created by law. And the reason why they're not going to transform the D.B.I. is to transform, I take it, in spite of the fact that it's already formed by the N.A.U.U.U. They're going to get together, or is this the idea of a bill, or is it just a technical mistake? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u165	Dear colleague, I don't understand why you didn't actually raise questions at the committee meeting. You've been talking about things, we've been voting and making decisions, but still, to continue the meetings. At the same time, in answer to your question, it is today. We understand and we know that the question of creating the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine was questionable, and I will not now report that it is constitutional, not constitutional. At the same time, it is questionable in the light of that decision of the Constitutional Court. In view of this position, it was suggested that the President be given the power to create the body.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u166	Thank you. In addition, the name Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich, a minute, is given as an explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u167	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to explain the answer to that question that Mr. Knazevitch just asked. The point is that the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine is a separate body with separate functions. When we talk about the State Bureau of Investigation, it is the central body of the State executive authority that is formed according to the Constitution of Ukraine in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u168	Thank you. The word is given to Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u169	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please hand over Prince Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u170	Please give me the word of Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u171	I would agree with you if the creation of an executive body was in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. But it was created by law in the same way that the National Anti-Corruption Bureau was created, they are identical to the legal nature of creation. And now you're questioning the nature of the creation of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, and as your representative just said from the rostrum, you don't think it's constitutional to create the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, which means that it will eliminate it and create a new organ, which is my idea, actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u172	Dear colleague, I didn't tell you not to twist it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u173	Thank you. I suggest we move on to a discussion from the MP factions and groups. There. There won't be time for answers. Hairy, okay. Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko, Deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u174	Thank you, sir. In fact, over the years in Parliament, I've been dealing with logic for the first time, when the reporter says we have a questionable constitutionality law, he's not proposing to repeal this law, and he's proposing the Constitution to adapt to a law that's questionable -- that's the logic I've seen for the first time at all. That's the first one. Now, secondly, look, they're telling us that the President is going to create and eliminate independent organs. If the President creates them and eliminates them, tell me, where will they become independent? Where will they become independent? That's the second question. And the third. Well, those were rhetorical questions, and I have a question of a report, an explanation, please, why does the President of Ukraine need these powers? If you ask me a question. If you ask me a question, what did we do when we passed these laws? I'll tell you in advance, I've written a statement to the prosecutor's office about the illegality and usurpation of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u175	Yes, thank you, Your Honor. Now for the procedure. I'd like to point out that both the previous reporters and you just asked me questions about the assignment. We determine what the President appoints, but we can determine the procedure with you. You do realize that this procedure can be defined at the legislative level, this is the appropriate filter, this is if you refer to the claims that you have made, that the subject will go through.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u176	Thank you. Alexia Volodymyrovich, thank you for the report. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a discussion between the MPs and the national MPs. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Schuffritch Nestor Ivanovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u177	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, since 2000, I have been fighting to really turn from the Presidential country into a parliamentary country. And we took a significant step in 2006. In 2004, they voted, and in 2006, they took the first step towards parliamentaryism, the parliamentary state. And the attempt to move away from this in 2010 when the fairly voluntary decision of the Constitutional Court brought Yanukovitch back the presidential powers of Kuchma, all of this ended in a tragedy of 14 years. Today we are in pain of continuing the path to transparency, to democracy, and these legislative initiatives are a great surprise to me. First of all, the D.B.I. and the N.A.U.U. It is written that the President is appointed according to the laws of Ukraine. I looked at other appointments or layoffs, it clearly stated who is making the appropriate application for appointment or release, and it was for the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, and the Attorney General, and so forth, and other officials. And in this case, I can even assume that this will be a purely formal submission, and in fact, the President of Ukraine will be given the opportunity to appoint the leaders of those organs that have to control, including his and our activities with you. So in what way would they control it if they were directly dependent on the President of Ukraine? The next is about regulators and other, perhaps, appropriate structures. Please tell me, is this the mandate laid down in the Constitution of Ukraine to create and appoint appropriately members and directors of bodies that have an exclusive economic nature of their activities? Is this not the authorization of ours with you, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, our parliamentary committees, or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is actually a continuation of the coalition and is responsible with the coalition? I think that today's bills are inappropriate, timeless, and that they bring us back to the path of authoritarianism, not parliamentary democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u178	Thank you. Belkova Olga Valentinovna, a faction of the political party of the All - Ukrainian Union, is invited to the floor. Ah, Kožemiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian union of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u179	Dear Head, honourable colleagues, the Ukrainian Act on the State Bureau of Investigation has been submitted to me personally and to the members of the Committee on Legislative Protection since 2012. We worked on it, this bill, for four years with experts and senior officials of the European Union, as well as the Venice Commission. The Council of Europe has made great efforts to accept it, given the state of torture and inhumane behaviour of law enforcement officials, which was very clear and concrete during the 2013 students' start-up. Only in the 15th year did we compromise its acceptance on the condition that the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation was appointed President for the submission of the Prime Minister after the respective competition. This was a compromise between the Peter Prashenko bloc, which defended the President's interests, of course, and the People's Front faction, which defended the Prime Minister's interests. So now that we don't have any questions about the constitutionality of this law enforcement body and the legality of its commander, we have a majority of the Party of the "Serves of the People", of the presidential faction, we have to write it into the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, our faction will support making appropriate changes to the Constitution regarding the mandate of the President to appoint and release the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation in accordance with the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u180	Thank you, Andrey Anatolyovich. Kisiel Yuri Grigorovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u181	Please pass the word to Irina Venedict.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u182	Irina Vendiktov, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u183	Thank you very much, colleagues, for your word. We are considering today the possibility of introducing to the Constitutional Court a bill amending article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine (to consolidate the President's powers to establish independent regulators, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, to appoint and relieve the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation). I read the full title of the bill on an ad hoc basis. What are we talking about? The point is that the President is now the subject of a legislative initiative, like the President, supported by 73 percent of the people who have come to the elections, who conducts their policy fairly honestly and implements the programme’s programming positions. What do we have here is a problem where we see imbalances in certain branches of power? I think it's a certain completely honest and understandable position. If our colleagues in parliament have other ideas about how to make these changes to article 106 or what is not to be done at all, please take advantage of your right, introduce a bill. And let's talk about it, it's also going to be fair and fair. So to this day, of course, I'm very pleased that, after they voted for the removal of the inviolability, my fellow parliamentarians have become very concerned about how they're going to be created, about how law enforcement agencies are going to be eliminated. Finally, if you thought about it earlier, maybe the people of Ukraine wouldn't be asking questions every time they meet with voters, these are all questions, you know? So, thank God, it's starting to come to you just like it does to mere mortals. And today, I think we have every reason to support this, to put it in the agenda, to refer it to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. There can be no problem with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u184	Thank you. Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich, faction of the political party Slavlav Ivanovich Vakarczuk, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u185	Dear colleagues! There's such a wonderful phrase from the Holy Scriptures: "The road to hell is on the road with good intentions." I wish we could remember her every minute in this room today. Because, no doubt, and I do not doubt that all the deputies in this room want better for our country, there is often a great danger under good intentions. The bill currently submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council is indeed dangerous. Why? Because it violates both the delicate balance and the system of restraint and the opposition that exists in the Ukrainian government, and which we are so difficult to build democratically. I want to remind all of us that democracy and freedom are the greatest achievements of Ukraine in 28 years. This is something we can truly be proud of. This is what allowed us today, including this new composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And if the previous law that I consider to be our common victory is the Law on overcoming the parliamentary immunity that we have adopted today, restoring justice, and finally this justice of equal before the law will prevail in our state, then the proposed changes to the Constitution that we are considering now create a dangerous precedent and the first sign of usurpation of power. You can't give yourself the ineligible functions of anyone in this country, even the head of state. I. I'm done. And so the right vested in the President to appoint the heads of the NAB and the DBR, and to create in an unlimited number different regulators, is dangerous. And for the Voice faction, it's a red line. We will always advocate that all branches of power be balanced and that everyone does his own function. Therefore, we certainly do not consider it necessary to submit such an amendment to the Constitution for consideration and vote before the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u186	Thank you. Victoria Petrovna Sumar, faction of the European Solidarity Political Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u187	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! It's very difficult to operate on arguments, because when you talk about Rules, we're told they're formalisms. Colleagues, this is not formalism, this is Ukrainian law. When you say, in principle, well, the deadline for submitting an alternative is as if it were issued by this Ukrainian Law on the Rules, and it is 14 days. And we're told you didn't make any amendments. How could we have served them if you had a committee in general between sessions and in a few days? So the argument is very difficult. We understand why this project is being amended into the Constitution of Ukraine. On the one hand, indeed, there is a legal lacuna in the Constitution concerning the President's right to appoint the head of the NAB and the head of the DBR. On the other hand, you know, you've been told by many former vocational colleagues about how we fought for these laws for the NAB and the DBR. And the key position there was the independence of these bodies, independence, because they are actually chosen by independent competition commissions. And the President will be granted the right to practically sign his signature. And here, the competitive conditions were somehow forgotten, which was a fundamental principle point in the meaning of the NAB and the DBD. But it's probably not the key position or the main position here. The key position is, of course, independent regulators who carry out government regulation, monitoring and control of the activities of operators. Please tell the Constitution of Ukraine, Chapter V clearly defines the authority of the President of Ukraine. There are powers that apply to security and defence, and there are powers that apply to foreign policy. Are we doing so well with security and defense? We don't have any more shots in the east? Do we need additional powers in terms of farming and economics? Are we doing so well with foreign policy? We can now lose a key witness to MH17 and Russia to get out of The Hague. We're not talking about this right now, we're talking about the need for additional Presidential functions for economic activity. I'm going to remind you of the President's authority, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma. The Orange Revolution ended. Next. Through the Constitutional Court, the Constitution of Kuchma brought back Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. He went to Rostov. So let's not do anything stupid, let's do it, let's not rape this little book, let's try to eat it, respect each other, rather than try to pull a bunch of authority to create organs that you don't even give. And it's a real legal mess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u188	Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP for the Future, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u189	Fellows, democracy is the worst form of government, not to mention all the rest of which we already know, Winston Churchill is the strong prime minister of strong parliamentary democracy. Now we're not even talking about minority rights today, we're not even talking about opposition rights, the opposition has to regulate its rights by a separate law, which unfortunately, the Ukrainian Parliament, in 25 years of its work, 27 years of its work, has failed. Neither European practices nor Ukrainian practices. We're talking about Parliament's rights as a whole as a separate branch of power. That's why I think, my friends, that we, and our "For the Future" MP group, every rule of law, changes to the law, and especially the silent changes to the Basic Law, the Constitution of Ukraine, will determine how we feel about these changes by living in the parliamentary-presidential Republic. That's why we recognize that the power of the President of Ukraine with regard to the NABU and the DBR is well founded on the consolidation plan in the Constitution of Ukraine. But the wording, we cannot agree that the drafting of the second part of the bill on the creation of independent regulators is inviolable. Friends, the President cannot alone, without your participation, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the independent Parliament, create these regulatory anti-corruption bodies. This overshadows the European practice that we have referred to in recent years. It is therefore considered necessary to raise the issue of the addition of the second part of this submission by a rule that the President forms such bodies in accordance with the law equivalent to that of the first part of the NABA bill. So we will be involved with this process with you, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In favour of this position, friends, which has already been heard from the rostrum today, testify to a recent decision, as you know, by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which has declared the unconstitutional creation of the former President of Ukraine in 2014 by the National Commission, which regulates energy and utilities. Let's not repeat the mistakes of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u190	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the speeches by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Kultenko Artem Valeriyovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u191	Good afternoon. I give my word to Gerus.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u192	Andrew Herus. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u193	Thank you. I want to point out that over the last five years, several regulators have been created in Ukraine, they have been created by the President of Ukraine, this is the NCRECR, NCREZI, NCREFR and Ukraine, and the National Commission Act has also been passed, which is implementing national regulation in the field of energy and utilities. So today we already have a situation that is de facto not regulated by valid legislation. And I want to point out that the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was adopted in July this year, actually says that our Commission of Tariffs of NCREKP is losing its mandate and it's not becoming constitutional since 1 January. So we can get such a certain legal vacuum and collapse when in the middle of January we have a non-working energy commission. And we need to understand that we have laid mines that can be declared non-constitutional and all other relevant regulators. So today, it is important that we adopt today's bill not so much to give any additional authority as to resolve the situation that has been around for the past five years, and the President has been doing the right thing, and the President has formed appropriate commissions. So I would like to urge all of us to vote today so that we do not have such collapses in the future. And I want this to be supported, especially by those deputies of the past call who have already adopted the NCRECR, which is declared unconstitutional, because we are now correcting those errors of the decisions of the last five years that have taken place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u194	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. Belkova Olga, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Head! Thank you very much to the previous speaker and thank you for the work we did with you in my last office when I was a deputy in charge of the task force on that commission you just talked about. I hope you remember that the question of the appointment and release of the members of the NCREKP was one of those who divided the Supreme Council. I hope you also remember that it was then that this decision was made under the enormous pressure of all experts, and we reached a compromise that would later be settled in the Constitution. But I also point out that I asked you twice today, colleagues, we are the Supreme Council, we are the highest legislative body. And in some ways, we guarantee independence that no president, no matter what his name is, is it your President today, or is it another President, that he does not usurp power, and he will not single-handedly decide on the most important organs of state power in this country. So "Paternity" usually supports the settlement of one of the collegiates that happened as a result of the adoption of, for example, the NAB, the DBD, etc. But fellow workers, in order to be servants of the people, must have authority to carry this service. Why don't you, the deputy of power today, raise a question that's legitimate, or will the Supreme Council have real powers in the future, like the President, we don't deny presidential powers? But the Supreme Council today, too, does not have sufficient authority to clarify the Constitutional Court. Today it seems to you that we are opponents, but in fact, we all have to be guarantors today that no usurpation of power will ever happen. As I voted in favour of that Commission Act in the past, so today, and with yours and my president, I stand for the same positions. And I want you to stand your ground, through different cadences, whether you're sitting in a tower or in a party of power. Therefore, it is for the party of authority to initiate 150 signatures in order to ensure that MPs are not only untouchable but also effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u196	Thank you. According to part seven of article 28 of the Ukrainian Rules, I continue our meeting for 15 minutes. The word is given to the Fedin of Sofia Romanovna. Honcherenko Alexia, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u197	Thank you. Honcherenko Alexei, north of Odessa, European Solidarity. Dear friends, and I somehow couldn't understand why today, right now in breaking procedures, we voted, I voted, I always voted for the removal of parliamentary immunity. But why right now and at the same time with other constitutional changes, and here, finally, I figured out what the writers are up to. And the idea is that, under a good mine, and to get a good look at the really important issue of eliminating the institution of parliamentary immunity, dividing Ukrainian citizens into masters and hovels, to stretch out a few other things that are no longer so correct, that's mildly speaking. And one of them is what we're looking at right now, is actually proposing to kill the independence of anti-corruption bodies: the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the State Bureau of Investigation, that's what this is about. If that's not the case, I have a simple question to ask the President of Ukraine, unfortunately, he's gone, and the simple question is, why didn't he then mention in the text the independent selection procedures of the D.B.I. and the director of the N.A.U.U.? If this isn't about murdering the independence of these organs, if this isn't about authoritarian authority. The second question. The President of Ukraine was elected by the people of Ukraine for certain powers, and when Ukrainian citizens elected Vladimir Zelensky as President of Ukraine, these powers were not given to the President of Ukraine. And even if we want to look at it now under any kind of sauce, it can only be considered for the next President of Ukraine, whom Ukrainian citizens will choose with such authority, because the only source of power in Ukraine is the people of Ukraine. What I was going to say is, look, it seems to me that Vladimir Alexanderovich has confused his name with him that he seems to have become Vladimir Vladimirovich. We don't need Vladimir Volodymyrovich, we don't need him. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ukrainian citizens need a Ukrainian president, we don't need potinism here in Ukraine. He's taking on all the powers. Ukrainian National Guard here, National Anti-Corruption Bureau here, State Bureau of Investigation here! All of it! It's all one person! Excuse me, who's the monarch? Who is this person that we give authority to? Do we understand how dangerous this is for democracy in the country? And today we face a very serious challenge -- the challenge of authoritarianism coming to Ukraine. The red button on this bill and the protection of democracy in Ukraine is to become the slogan of every responsible politician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u198	Honourable National Deputies, the National Deputy of Ukraine, President of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Fedir Volodymyrovich Venislavski, is invited to conclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, a very hot discussion on the bill that President Vladimir Zelensky introduced, has identified as urgent, and if you generalize all the speeches, you can see that there is some manipulation. Manipulation is related to the fact that people do not understand or understand. I mean national MPs, either don't understand, or deliberately mislead voters and TV and their colleagues. This is about a few key things. The first key is the question of the systematic application of the rules of the Constitution. Breaking out of the context of article 106, which provides for the President’s right to form independent regulators, to appoint their leaders, to form a National Anticorruption Bureau, the State Bureau. The appointment of directors of the National Anticorruption Bureau, the State Bureau of Investigation, should be considered systematically in connection with article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine. I will remind the honourable national deputies that part two of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine says that the authorities of the State, local authorities and their officials exercise their powers on the basis of their powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and the key word! - Ukraine's laws. Today’s laws that regulate the legal status of those bodies that we are discussing today are defined by laws. Forming with competitive principles, the principles of open competition are established by law. So there is no usurpation of power by the President in this case, there can be no. The President will guide the appointment of managers by the very provisions of the law that provide for open competition procedures that are already in place. That's the first one. The other one. There is also no reason to speak of any redistribution of the President's powers in favour of the Head of State to the detriment of parliamentary powers. Once again, I remind you that for today, all these powers the President has are de facto and so on. It was the Supreme Council and the opponents who opposed these powers that gave it the authority to enact laws. And in conclusion, honourable MPs, I want to say that yes, now it's about enough fragmented but very important changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. This in no way denies the future systematic revision of the Basic Law and its systematic updating, bringing it to common sense, to European standards. I would like to remind everyone that President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine, by his decree, approved the composition of the legal reform commission, one of which is also an important component.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u200	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u201	One important component of which is the implementation of future constitutional reform. Therefore, the President's team intends to work systematically on the updating of the law, the Basic Law of Ukraine. And I think that the problems and contradictions that occurred today in the hall, and which are still a lot in the constitution, will be systematically eliminated by the President's team and the people's deputies present in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u202	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. [[Applause]] To conclude, a member of the Committee on Legal Policy, Alexei Volodymyrovich Kucher, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u203	Thank you, colleagues. I'm very short. I've got two of these, more faithfully, two of them. The first thesis is to some of the colleagues here, whom we have just heard, especially to Deputy Hotcharyenka. I'm surprised at all that some colleagues don't understand, saying that the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau have already been properly created and appointed by President Prašenko. So when you suspect that authority is being usurped, please turn to what has been happening. That's the first one. The other one. I address the people of Ukraine. You know, I'm in shock. I'm looking at what's going on here, it's just propaganda, it's imitation work. If you are critical, please suggest. No offer came from our colleagues, none, I emphasize as a member of the committee. And now to conclude, I ask that this bill be included in the agenda of the day - to - day second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. And the same bill amending article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine asks that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine be referred to the Constitutional Court for its conclusion that it complies with the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u204	Thank you, Alexy Volodymyrovich. Replica, Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u205	Thank you. Dear friends, first of all, I would like to draw the attention of a distinguished colleague that he represents the committee and the committee's conclusions and that he can't give his own assessments to anyone and nothing but represent the committee's position. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to remind you that the President of Ukraine appointed them after the competitive commissions, performed a ceremonial function. And I asked this question from the Supreme Council's rostrum, why there is no mention in the draft amendments to the Constitution submitted by President Zelensky of the selection of candidates for the position of Director of NABU and Director of the State Bureau of Investigation. That was the question. If you're going to say it's not usurpation, add words to competitive procedures, add these procedures yourself, and then it'll be another conversation. And what we have now is full and undeniable usurpation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m0.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. In accordance with article 146 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I am voting for the adoption of a draft Decree (registration number 1014/P) on the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth call for a bill amending article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine (to consolidate the powers of the President of Ukraine to establish independent regulators, the National Anti-Corruption Office of Ukraine, to appoint and dismiss the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation) and to refer him to the Constitutional Court. Is everyone ready to vote? Then let's go to the vote. Please vote and vote. [[14:10:19]] For 282 Thank you. For 282, versus 54, holding 27. Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Show the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 251, "Resistance Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 17, "For the Future" – 1, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 13. I repeat, the decision is made. Orders adopted in general. Thank you all. Dear colleagues! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The evening plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place at 4 p.m.
