ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u1	Good morning! I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and get ready for registration. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration. And if you'd like to conduct an enrollment, please register. [[10:04:34]] 373 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, and today the birthday of the national deputies of our colleagues, Irina Stepanovna Lucenko. Mrs. Irina, welcome to your birthday. [[Applause]] And Yuri Alexandrovich Buglak. Welcome to your birthday. [[Applause]] And, colleagues, I would like to say that today in the Ukrainian Parliament is a very important day, a day of truth, when we have to adopt the milestone of constitutional change. These are the decisive, strategic decisions that determine the future of our country and our state. This is a consolidation of the Constitution's decision on Ukraine's strategic course for membership in the European Union and NATO. It is also the conclusion of decommunization and the introduction of a name in the Constitution, a new name for the area. And I am convinced that voting for the Euro-Atlantic course of Ukraine is a matter of historical importance. So, colleagues, I am convinced that all the patriots in this room should do their utmost to put aside all political debates and misunderstandings and to make a decision today. According to the planned plan, we were due to complete yesterday's bill and at 10:30 a.m. to the Constitution. That would give us the opportunity to vote until the 12th in favour of changes to the Constitution. There's a lot of concentration in the room. But unfortunately, I got a statement from two factions -- the Radical Party and the Fatherland -- about the announcement of a real break for half an hour. A real break, I take it? Yes, Fatherland and the Radical Party? I see. Obviously this is the responsibility of factions, and this is also their right. And, colleagues, that's why I'm now forced to call off two factions by 10:30. And I ask all the heads of factions to meet on the third floor for consultations. And at 10:30, I ask everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. And I would like to ask the head of the committee to be ready for the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I ask you to prepare yourself for the work of the head of the committee, the right-wing authors. Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymyrovich, I ask you to come into the hall and get ready for work. So, colleagues, I would like to remind you that yesterday we had a very constructive and lively discussion on the draft Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts on ensuring the principles of procedural justice and improving the efficiency of conduct in cases of violations of economic competition legislation. But unfortunately, yesterday we failed to complete the consideration of draft Law 6746, and we stopped at the right hand. Andry Volodymyrovich, remind us of the number of the readjustment we've stopped at. 130th. And the author of this amendment was Helen Schrum. I don't see if Mrs. Helena is in the hall. Let's do this, honestly, we'll go back to the 130 when he gets to the Olena Shkrum Hall. And now we're continuing our work, and I very much ask all right-wing authors to be concise, constructive. I'm going to traditionally call the license numbers, and according to this, the authors are going to point out whether they intend or not to insist on them. 132nd. Don't insist. 137th. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then I will, after the law. After the law, I will give my word as a result of consultations. 140th. Don't insist. 142nd. Don't insist. 144th. Don't insist. 146th. Don't insist. 148th. A bird. He insists. Please, Victoria Bird 148 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, I will not insist on voting for this amendment, but I want to take advantage of the possibility and still draw your attention to this law. I'm reminding you that we're considering an antitrust bill on procedural justice in disputes that are being considered by the antitrust committee about distortions of competition. This is a very important initiative that is supported by both business representatives and the American Chamber of Commerce, the European Business Association, this initiative has been developed, I have been assisted in this initiative by the Association of Lawyers of Ukraine. We, our committee, have completely cleared up all the points that were not agreed upon in the hall and to which we have raised some concern in the individual deputies. Today, I will ask you to unify this hall so that we can vote, and yet this bill has become law. So I ask you to pay your attention and, despite any political battalions, still be in your seats and vote at the right time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u4	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head. Please turn the microphone on in the rostrum of the committee head. Dear Mr. Ivanchuk, is your card in the remote? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u5	Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs, good afternoon to all! Mrs. Victoria, in law, we have provided for the obligation of a person not to destroy, forge, distort, hide information or evidence concerning the alleged cartel. And during the preparation of the statement, this is a guarantee of the preservation of evidence that is essential for the consideration of the case. That's why there is this rule in the law, and we didn't take your amendment into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine 148 amendments. [[10:34:02]] For-76 The correction is being rejected. As promised, we return to the 130th Amendment of the National MP, Mrs. Alona Shkrum. Please turn on her microphone. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in five or seven minutes, so come back quietly to the session room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u7	Good afternoon, colleagues! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. An extremely important bill where every amendment matters, and it's a good thing that we're looking at it in such detail. I would like to repeat, including the discussion we had yesterday, half the working day as a minimum, in Parliament about amendments to this bill. Once again, the bill must not simply give rights to legal persons and other persons who are participants in conducts, disputes and actually have relations with the Antimonopoly Committee, but the bill should also help the Antimonopoly Committee to finally perform its functions in a normal, effective, impartial and independent manner. I'm going to repeat my thesis that we have to rebuild the state-controlled institutions. I would ask, including the Committee on Economic Policy, to invite the head of the Antimonopoly Committee here to the annual report, to report from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, which, unfortunately, we haven't seen in a very long time about the things that are bothering us today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u8	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u9	Including those cases that the Antimonopoly Committee closed for lack and lack of evidence regarding the child and potential abuse of the monopoly on the heat - generation market and coal production in the country. This is a question that can help regulate, including tariffs for the population, including tariff issues. And this report of the Antimonopoly Committee would be important in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u10	Thank you. This was not entirely a matter of correction. As we understand it, Mrs. Allona does not insist on her voting. But once again, Mrs. Alona, as co-author of the bill, urges the Hall to support this amendment. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u11	Once again, Mrs. Alona, as yesterday, I insist that there are no potential anti-competitive and monopolistic actions, because the meeting of the Child company has been extremely transparent, involving all European institutions, and those norms that are now regulated by Ukrainian legislation are energy markets, the only buyer, the only seller, and that NCRE is a commission that sets all tariffs for everything, i.e. impossible, no companies, even having a dominant position, to be a monopoly or, more importantly, what you're saying is hypothetically abuse their status and violate anti-competitive legislation. But with regard to Mrs. Skrum's amendment, I would like to comment that there is no term in the bill, Mrs. Alona, that we have a conditional discharge from liability. It's your 131th amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u12	Thank you. Mrs. Allona, she doesn't insist on voting. 151 revisions. Our colleague doesn't insist. 152nd. The author does not insist. 153rd. He insists. Please. Now, please, Mrs. Alona Skrum, 153 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u13	Thank you. Colleagues, I insist on 153 of my amendment, please put it to the vote. And I would also like to add that once again, the Antimonopoly Committee has to act on the basis of its own law on the principle of independence, on the principle of equal treatment of all market participants, including all state bodies. The Antimonopoly Committee, as an institution, has the right and duty to even check markets, to verify potential abuse of the monopoly, and then to report on this to society, including the situation of the Child. I have to agree that, really, it's not the DTEK that sets and shapes prices for energy and the coal market, but including, for example, the NCRECR is the body that sets the formula for the cost of coal. And to test this formula, and the economic basis of this formula is the responsibility of every controlling body, and of the national deputies, including. I think it would be very appropriate to invite the head of the Antimonopoly Committee here to hear his report for the previous year's work. And that was right and beautiful after the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u14	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor, for not insisting on the amendment, but simply once again expressing your position on the Antimonopoly Committee bill. Next amendment, 158 people's deputies. Ostrika's Tetjana. Please, Mrs. Tetjana, you have a microphone. Basically.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u15	Good afternoon! The amendment is intended to exclude from article 60 of the Law on Protection of Economic Competition, a discriminatory norm that severely restricts the right of legal and natural persons to access to justice. Article 60 of the law gives the applicant and the defendant the right to challenge the decision of the Antimonopoly. the bodies of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee to the Master Court, but such a complaint can only be filed within two months, and this term cannot be restored. We believe that this approach is contrary to the current procedural legislation and practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The amendment provides that the court, on the basis of the application, shall renew the missed procedural period established to challenge the decision of the Antimonopoly Committee authorities if it deems the reasons for its omission to be valid, because the two-month period is too little to prepare quality documents, and in that case there may indeed be grounds for the renewal of missed periods. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u16	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u17	Good afternoon, Mrs. Ostrikak! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that part of the first article of the 60 bill provides that the time frame for the indictment is counted against the date of the person’s decision. This corresponds to all the general provisions of Ukrainian procedural legislation. And secondly, we have set a two-month deadline for the appeal of the decision of the AMCA. I think that's enough, and the committee supported me, because the six-month deadline will lead to a delay in the implementation of the decisions of the Antimonopoly Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u18	Thank you. Guys, I'm asking you to make a decision on 158 amendments. I'd like to make a statement. And let me give you the orientation of all of us who have literally three amendments left, so in five minutes we're going to go to the vote for this important law. [[10:40:44]] For-67 The correction is being rejected. Next up is 162nd. Please, Victoria the Bird, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to this law. I believe that, as a legislative body, we are obliged to ensure effective antitrust legislation, we are obliged to implement those European practices today in the European Union to ensure that the most dangerous distortions in the field of competition, such as cartels, are the secret arrangements of market operators so that they can be effectively investigated. We're running all these procedures. We must also protect the subjects from various abuses by members of the Antimonopoly Committee. I know very much, unfortunately, in the practice of such abuses, so an honest, transparent business must use the principles of procedural justice that are in Europe. So today I'm going to urge you to vote in favour of this law, and I'm going to continue to control how the Antimonopoly Committee is going to implement our decision, because we live in a parliamentary state, let them report, in fact, to Parliament as they carry out that legislative base that we are adopting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u20	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u21	Dear Mrs. Victoria, you remember that we rejected your amendment in view of the fact that the Antimonopoly Committee should have the right to carry out checks not only in the case of detected violations, signs of violations, but also in other cases what you said was cartel plots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u22	We understand that Mrs. Victoria does not insist on voting on this amendment. We've got the last amendment, dear colleagues. Please, 172 revisions. Mrs. Ostrikova's national deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that there are several valid reasons for supporting this bill. First, it regulates the deadlines for dealing with infringements of economic competition legislation, sets clear deadlines during which the case must be completed. This minimizes, in fact, the possibility for the Antimonopoly Committee to abuse, exceed authority and prevents artificial delay. The bill protects the rights of the persons involved in the case, establishes the hearing institution at the level of law, improves the order of prosecution in the court of a decision taken by the Antimonopoly Committee. Thus, the law protects the rights of persons involved in cases of violations of economic competition against possible abuses by the AMCA. Since this is the last amendment, I'd like to ask you to support this bill. And thank you to Mr. Ivanchuk's committee and Mrs. Birddog for the quality of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u24	Thank you. There will be a closing statement by the committee head. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room. I want to inform all the Ukrainian national MPs that yesterday, Wednesday, these deputies who were present at the meeting, we went very carefully to the amendment to the bill that is currently under discussion. What's important? All factions support it, i.e. it's a bill that really awaits the Ukrainian business. We hope that this will be the same in the session room. Please take the closing statement, two minutes, to the head of the committee. And I ask you to return to the session room, and in two minutes there will be a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u25	First, I would like to comment on Amendment 172. Mrs. Ostrikova, we support your initiative, but unfortunately we rejected the amendment because it will not work without appropriate changes to the economic and procedural legislation, and it is not regulated by this bill. Now for the bill. Madam Chairman, you have indeed said correctly that this bill has been drafted by representatives of all without excluding the MP factions and groups, all of whom support it. It's really essential for the Ukrainian business, it answers a lot of questions, and I think it's very significantly improving Ukrainian legislation in part of competition law. Therefore, the honourable Presidium, the honourable people's deputies, I very much ask everyone to concentrate. 173 amendments were made to the bill, most of them included. During our second reading, we were able to go through and balance it completely. I am very much asking for the support of Bill 6746 in the second reading and generally as a law. Thank you. Thank you all very much for your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u26	Thank you. Colleagues, so we're moving to making decisions, and I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues, the committee took into account all the proposals made by the deputies. The committee worked together to prepare the law. I very much ask everyone to prepare for the vote now. I ask from the bed, from the towers to go into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, so we don't go back, I'm asking everyone to stop the discussion and go back to the hall. Ready, are you, colleagues? So everybody's in place, right? The committee, look, committee members, everyone in position. So let's go to the vote, colleagues. And I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the principles of procedural justice and to improve the effectiveness of conduct in cases of violations of economic competition legislation (No. 6746) on re-second reading and in general with technical and legal rights. Please vote, please support. We vote, colleagues, we support, we vote carefully, we vote responsibly. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote. [[10:48:32]] For 248 The law is passed. Congratulations, colleagues. And I want to report now on the results of our consultations with the heads of factions. All right, everyone, please. I would like to inform you that, following consultations with factions' heads on the tariff situation for citizens, the common position of most of the factions' heads is that the situation requires control of Parliament, the highest legislative body of the state. Speculation on this subject and the possible increase in the cost of tariffs is affecting Ukraine’s most vulnerable citizens. And if there are such facts, they have to be examined by Parliament and they have to be evaluated by Parliament, and this is a common position. So we agreed to set up a working group with all the factions to prepare a ruling for Parliament on the question of the basis of tariffs. And I'm asking the MPs to immediately put their representatives into this group and prepare the text of the ruling so that next plenary week we can put it to the vote. And I'm sure all the people's deputies, the whole room supports that position. We're backing it up. According to the law, two factions asked for a recess, but I said I couldn't give them a speech during the hearing, so now I'm giving the speech prescribed by law after the break, for Oleg Laska's speech. Colleagues, colleagues, stop! I gave a performance. I gave a performance. And we move on to the Constitution. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u27	You fought, B.P.P., for the people. We're blocking the Parliamentary Court from Tuesday to force the Supreme Council to consider the correctness of tariffs so that people don't get robbed when people get space payments that are bigger than their salaries and pensions. Why are the Presidential deputies blocking the rostrum? To keep people looting, people continue to receive these cosmic payments. So I thank the head of Parliament that under his leadership we have found compromise and finally made Parliament point out that people today cannot pay these tariffs, because these payments that people get, they beat at the very needy citizens. It's impossible to pay 4,000 dollars for a utility store when you have 2,000 dollars of pension. You can't get a grant, you can get the kids out of the house to write up a grant. The politics of today's government is in fact a policy of poverty, addiction and robbery. We will not allow Parliament to remain silent when people are being robbed. We're not going to allow Parliament to close its eyes to unfair tariffs, to excessive utilities, to corruption in housing and utilities, to the fact that Naftogazu's head gets millions of wages, billions of premiums have been written down, gone into the pockets of every Ukrainian. And it took a week to block the parliamentary rostrum to finally agree to our demands, to agree on what a loving parliament in any normal country would do itself: to protect people, to control how the authorities work, to investigate where these space payments are made, for which people have to pay. Any normal state would have to do it itself, and in our country, it turns out, we have to block the rostrum to force the parliamentary majority to get the power to hear these problems. So I want to tell the Ukrainians that we're fighting to keep the authorities from getting money out of your pockets. We fight to ensure that tariffs are fair. The Easy Team is fighting for you to stop receiving space payments. And those who send you these space payments so that they will die forever, so that there will be a fair price for gas in the country, so that the tariffs you pay are good people, not more than 15 percent of your total income. We're going to force Parliament, we're going to force the power to order prices on the utility, to put order in the gas market, to stop the corruption that every Ukrainian pays for. We insist that Parliament immediately prepare an appropriate draft decision and that the next plenary week be considered as soon as possible. Stop robbing Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u28	And, dear colleagues, I invite everyone to the workplace. We're moving on to historic decisions. And I am very glad that we have been able to remove all political opposition and move on to the agreed work of Parliament. So, colleagues, I want to remind you that now we have a question about changes to the Constitution. But before we can change to the Constitution, we need to establish the order of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Without him. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take up jobs. To date, all the committees have submitted their proposals, and the factions, to the agenda, and in order for us to be able to move to the review of the Constitution, we need to establish the order of the day of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And right after that, we are moving on to the issue of amending the Constitution on the strategic course of the state for full membership of Ukraine in the European Union and NATO. So I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. All the materials were distributed, everyone came to know and offered. Colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize -- the order of the day of the tenth session, to maximize your mobility. And I'm voting on the proposal to approve the order of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call so that we can move on to constitutional issues. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. We're voting on proposals from factions, from committees. Please vote. Please be supportive. We're voting for the agenda. We support all the proposals, the factions, and the committees. [[10:55:58]] For 227 Decision taken. This allows us, colleagues, to go to the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine (for the strategic course of the State for obtaining full membership of Ukraine in the European Union and in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization) (9037). Honorable National Deputies, according to the requirements of article 149 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are being considered in full discussion. So there'll be a committee report first, then there'll be statements from all the MPs and groups, then there'll be speeches from the national MPs (but I'll give you a minimum time, because we've gone very far beyond that, i.e. 6 minutes for the people's deputies), then there's a closing statement by the head of the committee, and then there's a legal statement by President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. And after that vote. It's going to take about an hour. So I ask, colleagues, all to be as concise as possible so that we can go through this extremely important decision, which, I have no doubt, will win more than 300 votes and be able to unite the entire Ukrainian Parliament. The report is given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy and Justice, Ruslan Petrovich Knazević. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u29	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the position of the Legal Policy and Justice Committee, which is a profile, on the procedure for amending the Constitution on the bill of registration number 9037, which was introduced by the President of Ukraine's right-of-law, and provides for appropriate changes to the Constitution of Ukraine on the strategic course of the State for obtaining full membership of Ukraine in the European Union and in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. I remind you that we are with you today at the stage of the final adoption of the bill as a law. In previous sessions, we first included the bill in the agenda of the day session, sent it to the Constitutional Court for the appropriate conclusion. And recall, on November 22, 2018, the Constitutional Court concluded that the bill introduced by the President of Ukraine amending the Constitution of Ukraine under registration number 9037 met the requirements of article 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and that it had not made any reservations about the other provisions of the bill in question to comply with other articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. In view of the stated conclusion, on November 22, 2018, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved the proposed bill by its Decree on registration number 2622. After that, you know that the committee of profile was obliged to consider at its meeting the above-mentioned decision, the decision on the preliminary approval of the bill, together with the conclusion that it was in conformity with the 157th, 158th article of the Constitution, and to rule on the possibility of final approval of the bill. At its meeting held on 17 January 2019, a proposal made by the committee head to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine final approval of the bill for registration number 9037, bearing in mind that he had passed the expert opinion of the Venice Commission, that he had obtained the conclusion of the Constitutional Court and that on 22 November 2018 he had previously been approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And also, given that, in its conclusion, the Constitutional Court did not only say that the draft law was in conformity with the 157th, 158th articles of the Constitution, nor did it make any warnings to it. In view of the above, and according to 155 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine and part of the sixth article 149 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can finally approve the bill, since it is appropriate to conclude that it is in conformity with the 157th, 158th article of the Constitution of Ukraine, there is no objection to its contradiction with other articles of the Constitution, and it is previously approved by the Supreme Council of this convening at the previous session of Parliament. Thus, we recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law submitted by the President amending the Constitution of Ukraine (for the strategic course of the State for the acquisition of full membership of Ukraine in the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization) under the heading 9037 of September 3, 2018, to be finally adopted as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u30	Thank you, colleagues. Three minutes is a question to the reporter. Please hold the recording. Please, dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u31	Your Honor, I have a very simple question for you. I understand that we no longer have the opportunity to make any editorial or legal or technical changes to the bill, but explain to me how a lawyer does it, and what we will do with the body of the Constitution, because I am convinced that today we will make appropriate changes to the Constitution if, for example, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization changes its name and becomes the Organization, not the North Atlantic Treaty, but any other treaty? It turns out we're going to have to go through the whole process of amending the Constitution of Ukraine again. Please explain how we will be in this situation, in your opinion, how we will proceed to make changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u32	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. Let me not make my point in person, because I'm speaking in a different ipósta, as the head of the committee that we're joining with you, and we've had the opportunity to discuss these things at the committee meeting. I just want to remind you that our committee is solely responsible for the formal procedure for amending the Constitution, not for the content of the changes proposed. As far as the future is concerned. Well, let's see what happens in the future. I'm more optimistic about the North Atlantic Treaty Organization than you are. So I think it's going to be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u34	Thank you. Berezuk Oleg Romanovich. He's handing it over to Olenia Stonik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u35	Please give it to Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u36	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u37	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I have a question that concerns a separate opinion, which was nevertheless expressed when the Constitutional Court was reached. In particular, I would still like to know, and that is what the Constitutional Court Judge Melnik points out, which excludes "Transitional positions" and excludes paragraph 14 "Transitional positions", but in no way was the bill based on why this is happening, although we have an objective answer to this. And secondly, considering that the Constitutional Court in its decision in principle did not reach any conclusions on this point, please indicate whether the committee had analysed the matter before the second reading, whether you had properly analysed the exercise by the Constitutional Court of your powers and whether there was no justification for the exclusion of this paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u38	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Olena, for asking. The point is that the conclusion really came to us, including the individual opinion of a judge, one of the judges of the Constitutional Court. But I have to tell you that the judge supported the decision, I just made a separate point. So he didn't vote against that decision, it's very important. He has his opinion, he has the right, but the other 17 judges do not support that. So, in principle, they voted in favour of such a decision without any reservations or arguments. As far as our committee is concerned, given both the right conclusion and the individual opinion, we now have no opportunity to offer a response in any way to the position expressed in a specific sense, since you know that after prior approval and final adoption, neither the Committee nor the Supreme Council can make any changes. If such changes were to be made in Parliament's opinion, they would need to be re-examined to the Constitutional Court to determine the extent to which changes could be made. The committee does not consider it appropriate to recommend that Parliament make any changes, so we strongly recommend that the bill be approved as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u40	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. You can go back to work. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up for the speeches by the MPs and the factions. And I'm going to remind everyone that they're going to have three minutes to present their position. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you not to call the Bureau, please. Please, from Rebirth Group Victor Bondar will present the position of the group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u41	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! Of course, our "Rebirth Party" group has consistently voted and supported all the bills relating to European integration, the acquisition of visa-free regime and other European-related bills. Today we see that these issues of accession to the European Union and NATO raise many resonating questions in Ukraine and the Ukrainians. We have repeatedly stated that most of the countries that joined NATO and the EU have conducted this decision through a national referendum that has taken place in each country, and the country itself has determined how to move forward. The last examples are Croatia, Georgia and so on. Unfortunately, in Ukraine, no one hears our position that a referendum should be held at the same time as the presidential elections, and people would have to be determined, all the more so that the authorities guarantee that social support is available and people are ready to go into this process. Today we think that this amendment to the Constitution is actually a bluff because no one will be there for the next 10 years. And this is the main pre-election trick they're running today to run the presidential campaign. But you can vote, you can put that question in the hall, it's a decision of authority. We suggest, if there is a desire to bring order, many politicians, presidential candidates, who are today in the Hall, factions leaders have promised many things to people in recent years. If we want to go into this process, if the President needs to make changes to the Constitution today, let's resist, make a demand, cancel the robbery tariffs. Let's put in a draft decree that seven faction leaders signed. Why did you bury yourself in the bushes? What's the working group that the speaker offered us? It's a road to nowhere -- a task force, they'll never cancel those tariffs. Let's make decisions and vote -- and then the Constitution. The other one. It's a bill to remove the inviolability of national MPs, judges, presidents and so on. Why don't you put it to a vote? This is where all the presidential candidates sit. Resist, do not vote, and the authorities will be forced to put this right before the constitutional vote. Preview of the election system, open lists. There is the Electoral Codex, which is voted the first reading. Why don't you try not to vote on the Constitution until this bill is voted on? Because you're buried, you don't want to make these decisions, you don't want to cancel the robbery tariffs, you don't want this decision standing here today on the agenda, you don't want to take off the inviolability, you don't want to look at the electoral system. So don't point your finger at anyone or tell them on all the TVs that you're asking for. And if you ask, stand fast now, we don't vote for lunch, the authorities will have to put these things to a vote, and then we'll put them into the Constitution. And to be fair, we have to change the Constitution to a universal referendum, and then people will have to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u42	Thank you. And I now invite you to the words of the head of the Peter Dust Block, "Solidarity," Arthur Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u43	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear journalists! Dear Ukrainians! Today, the Ukrainian Parliament, I am sure, will make a historic decision and support the proposals made by President Peter Poshenko of Ukraine to introduce our course towards the European Union and NATO into the Constitution of Ukraine. It's a fundamental, it's a historic decision that every national MP in this room today has to support, but at the same time, it's a very simple decision. Today, this decision will be a watershed, and it will be very easy to show who is behind Moscow and who is behind Ukrainian heroes. So, honourable fellow national MPs, I ask everyone to gather and support proposals to strengthen the Ukrainians' desire to be in the European Union, to strengthen the Ukrainians' desire for additional collective security and further assistance to our heroic Ukrainian army and to support these decisions today in the House of Parliament. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u44	Thank you, Mr. Arthur. The head of the Self-Help faction, Oleg Barresuk, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u45	The desire of Ukrainians for freedom, European and human values has been recorded in blood and then in welfare, volunteers, cyborgs, and millions of Ukrainians for hundreds of years. Regrettably, the Ukrainian oligarchic authorities today have come to the point that they are using the basic document, the Basic Law of the country as a tool for their petty pre-election manipulations. By the way, no one's ever done that, because the Constitution is sacred. Yes, Ukraine will be in NATO and will be a European state, because it is in its essence. And what the President is proposing today is his election campaign, this is a declaration of declarations, which is written in the main document. Why? Because there is no action, because NATO standards, NATO standards are a transparent military, military budget of the country. NATO standards are new weapons. Ukraine has not installed a new aircraft to arm its own production in the last five years, and no rocket has been put on armament in the last four years of its own production. The military, missile and aviation states are NATO standards. NATO standards are the welfare of a Ukrainian soldier, both on the front and in his own home. And that's not what it is. That's why we need a declaration of incorporation into the Constitution of Ukraine. Conspiracy to the saints. But today this hall will make this decision because Ukraine is smart and strong. But today's decision, I'm sure, will convince people that you can't trust people who hide their words in the highest, major document to cover up their inaction. One of the generals of the European Union, I apologize, NATO, the commander of NATO in Europe said: "It is easier to enter Ukraine than the armies of NATO or the United States, through the bureaucracy and proxy of the Russian people who sit in the Ukrainian government, in the Ukrainian government and in the Ukrainian parliament." This is a threat to Ukrainian security. And today, Ukraine needs to know about this, and Ukraine is a European state and will be a strong European state, the foundation of European security on the European continent. Because we are the first order, the first order of democracy in the fight against the age-old enemy of Ukraine, the Russian imperial tyranny and the despot.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u46	Thank you. Please welcome the head of the "Fatherland" faction, Julia Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u47	Welcome to all, your honors, as well as those who are now listening to the Supreme Council. Dear friends, the fact that Ukraine in today’s modern, competitive, hard world, in which a rather intense struggle for resources begins, cannot be left alone. Lonely means to be practically separate from the mainstream movement of humanity. And so, of course, our goal is to become a member of the European Union. And at that time, we must also be aware, especially when we are at war against us, and especially when we are suffering losses, that we cannot be as alone as we are in the military. We must be part of NATO. But, at the same time, I said those words not at this rostrum today but only when I began my political career. And our political team from day one to day will support and support this strategy. As Prime Minister, I was the first Prime Minister to apply for NATO membership plan along with the President and with the Chief of the Supreme Council at the time. Unfortunately, we have been denied, but we need to continue this way. And that's why our entire team is going to vote in full unanimity today for these constitutional changes. But, at the same time, it's very strange that this question only rises 50 days before the election. There was no time for that for five years! And that's why we have to report to ourselves today that the totally corrupt power that is looting today, including our army that is making money today, unfortunately, at war, is today trying to use sacred things -- Ukraine's membership in the EU and NATO -- to cover up as wide as possible what they are actually doing in the towers. And I can say that EU and NATO standards are honest elections, and that today the President, his closest corrupt environment, such as Berezenko, bribes the country in order to falsify elections, are not EU and NATO standards. That is why we must either follow these values and lead the country to the EU and NATO, first and foremost, by rebuilding all our lives, or by not using such sacred things during a dishonest presidential campaign. Ukraine will be in NATO and the EU, and I am convinced of that, and the next President will. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u48	Thank you. Please give the next performance from the Opposition Block, Wadim Novinsky. Please, Mr. Wadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u49	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Today we are witnessing an attempt by the President's team to rewrite the Constitution of Ukraine in our own electoral interests. They are not really interested in the EU and NATO, they are interested in preserving power for another five years. But we have seen five years of complete lies, unfulfilled promises and the disastrous poverty of Ukrainians. For another five such years, Ukraine may not last. We and our faction colleagues are strongly opposed to manipulating the President's manipulations and against the changes to the Constitution that will break the country apart. Our position is clear and has the support of millions of Ukrainians -- our voters. I would also like to point out that from a legal point of view, the changes proposed by the President in the course of the U.S. referendum are a usurpation of power. According to the Constitution, only the people have the right to change the foreign policy course laid down in the Basic Law. The Declaration of State Sovereignty of the Ukrainian RSR in the 1990s declared the state's neutral status. The Declaration of Independence Act of August 24, 91, was the instrument for the implementation of the Declaration. After an all-Ukrainian referendum in 91st as an act of establishing power for the people of Ukraine as an independent state, the whole world was recognized. The Declaration of Independence Act is also based on the Preamble of the Constitution. But President Poroshenko proposes to change the foundations of the state system, as confirmed by the 1991 All-U.S. referendum, without a new referendum. Therefore, voting in favour of this bill would violate the direct requirement of the Constitution by the highest legislative body. I would like to remind those who are voting today for changes to the Constitution. No one in this international community is waiting for us. We have heard many times from European high-holders that in the coming decades the issue of Ukraine's EU membership will not stand. The same is true of NATO. The prospect of joining the Ukrainian Alliance, which is actually in a state of war, simply does not exist. In fact, we're dealing with an open pianist and a lie by Peter Prashenko, who wants to use the games around the Constitution to raise his ratings. But no ratings justify increased hostility and opposition in Ukrainian society. Yes, according to recent sociology, only about 40 percent of Ukrainians support joining NATO and only about half of the citizens – the accession to the European Union. These questions divide Ukraine in half, and the worst part is that the proposed changes to the Constitution only distance us from peace in our country. We understand the complexity of these issues in the uncontrollable territory of Donbas and in the Crimea. Will possible changes to the Constitution help to find compromise and return these regions? No, of course not. So again, this is trying to change the Constitution in a timely way. This initiative will harm the nearing of peace in Ukraine. Changes in the foreign policy course should be made to the U.S. referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u50	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u51	All you need is a re-establishment of territorial integrity. I call on the people's deputies not to vote for these changes without an all-Ukrainian referendum, not to usurp power that is not owned by Peter Poroshenko and his administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u52	Thank you. From the Radical Party to the word Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u53	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team, our voters in Ukraine, for real European integration, is not discussing this issue. But real European integration is a decent life for Ukrainians in their country, not a declaration. Any declaration can be written. But when millions of people are working abroad, when millions of people are poor, when 5 million are retired, when space tariffs, when children can't give 30 dollars to go to school, what do they talk about? For President Dustenk, all these declarations are about how he pursues one goal: to win the election. And I don't need a choice -- I need a strong economy, the well-being of every Ukrainian family, and a strong country. When are agreements signed with Ukrainians that take away forests, land, grain, when markets and internal markets are restricted, and external ones, where real integration is, where the real support of Ukrainians, where the European standard of living is? You want Euro-integration, so support the Radical Party policy so there's a cow in the village, so there's jobs. You want European integration -- so support the Radical Party's industrial recovery initiatives, after the national economy is restored, after wages and pensions have been increased. You're going to Europe through Africa. Today, we occupy the lowest levels of medicine, health care, education, wages, pensions. Where do you lead the country?Oh, my God! Manners. Mazai once led the Germans into the swamp. Thus today, the Ukrainian nation of Poshrenko leads to the swamp. We're proposing another way, a way of development. What Is a Strong Country? It's a strong economy to have money for an army, for diplomacy, for defense, for wages, for retirement, for feeding babies, for affordable medicine. What are you offering us? Poverty, addiction, the raw structure of the economy, but in the Constitution, we write European integration. We all need to work. Our work is a strong country, a strong economy, the well-being of every Ukrainian family, so that Ukrainians don't go abroad to work in their own country, make money in their own country. My plan is to bring the young back to Ukraine, which has traveled abroad today. How Can You Return Your Youth? To allow ourselves to be realized, not by the children of presidents in Parliament, but by the children of millions of Ukrainian families who can't achieve anything because they don't have a father-president. And that's why they're standing in markets trading instead of running the country. I'm going to bring my children to Parliament, not my children, and I'm going to bring millions of Ukrainian children to Parliament who don't see the prospect today. We will give them perspective, justice in their own country, and prosperity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u54	From the People's Front to the show, the leader of the Maksim Burbak faction is invited. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, the people of Ukraine! The People's Front has consistently advocated the consolidation of the EU and NATO membership course in the Constitution. This is one of the priorities of the People's Front and the realization of the will of the Ukrainian people. Most Ukrainians support joining NATO, for integration into the European Union, and Ukraine went to the Maidan to join the Dignity Revolution. Today, there can be no doubt about whether to vote or not for this bill. The NATO movement started in 2008 when Arsenij Yatzenuk, as a speaker of parliament, signed a letter to NATO on a plan of action for membership with the President and the Prime Minister. But then the regionals blocked Parliament and for ten years halted the development of the country into a civilized world. Today, ten years from now, we have to give the green light to the NATO membership plan. Today, we must establish in the Constitution the irreversibility of the Euro-Atlantic course of Ukraine. In Parliament after the elections in 2014, after the victory of the Dignity Revolution, a pro-European, pro-Ukrainian majority was created. We have no right to breed this historic opportunity. We have to vote for the irreversibility of choosing Ukrainians – this is NATO and EU membership. Step by step, we are moving toward our goal. Making changes to the Constitution is the responsibility of today's convening of Parliament. The People's Front faction will vote in favour of changes to the Constitution, and we urge all colleagues to vote in favour of this historic decision. The next step is to support the decision by the Supreme Council to refer to NATO member countries to provide us with a plan of action for NATO membership. They're skeptical again, as if they're not waiting for us there, and no one's going to open the door for us. That was the case when we said that when we were driving a car out of Ukraine. No one believed it. But the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk developed a gradual plan. You and I have passed more than 144 laws and regulations that we've finally passed. I am convinced that this will be the case with regard to the implementation of the NATO membership plan. That's why the People's Front supports change in terms. in the Constitution on the irreversibility of the EU and NATO course, we should continue to vote on the decision to ask NATO countries to develop a membership plan. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u56	Heroic glory! And the closing statement from the factions and groups is Ribczynski from the "Will of the People" group. Please, Mr. Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u57	In fact, it's a great historic opportunity, and today, I'm absolutely sure we'll take advantage of it. "The will of the people" today is surprisingly almost complete in the hall and we will give the highest vote today for changing into the Constitution in the context of Euro-integration and joining NATO. I would just like to point out that if we had signed a memorandum with NATO in the year 94 instead of the Budapest Memorandum, we wouldn't be at war today. It's probably an assumption, but it's an assumption based on recent research. We are confident today that our development would be no less than Croatia, for example, which has survived the same war. Five years goes by, the fall will be five years as the war goes on. Over the past five years, the consciousness of the Ukrainians has changed greatly. In 2014, when I came to Parliament, I registered an interfractional group called the Atlantic Movement, and there were as many as seven members. I think today would be 300. This changes Ukrainian consciousness: in five years of war, they became ready to join NATO. I'm sure it will happen today. I want to remind you that the success of the Ukrainians, the Ukrainian military in European territory, has been known for many years, many centuries. In 1683, Ukrainian Cossacks, along with the great Roman Empire, with Bavaria, Saxony, conquered Vienna as Turks. It was the great Battle of Vienna, where 30,000 Ukrainian Cossacks actually reflected Turks to Budapest. I want to say that we will continue to work with both Europeans and Americans in the military. And today's decision by Parliament will be truly historic and irreversible. Ukraine will continue to be strong and our borders will be intact, I hope. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u58	Thank you, colleagues. The factions are finished. And now six minutes for the national MPs. Please hold the recording. Six minutes, colleagues. Chumuk Viktor Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u59	Finally, I fell into the microphone. Dear friends, I have had to work with the Border Service Departments since 2000 in the authorities and departments of the Border Service, who have been actively involved in preparing Ukraine for the NATO Accession Action Plan, which has been actively involved in the preparation of annual plans for interaction with NATO. My personal political position is that Ukraine should be in a club of highly developed nations. NATO and the European Union are not just geopolitical choices. NATO and the European Union are a valuable choice for every Ukrainian. NATO and the European Union are countries with the rule of law. NATO and the European Union are countries that have huge social standards. NATO and the European Union are countries that have human rights protection. But NATO and the European Union are countries that have the irreparability of punishing every criminal, every corruption, every bribe. I want to say that what will be enshrined in our Constitution is good. Unfortunately, this has no legal effect either on us or NATO, but it has an accurate indicator of the geopolitical and valuable choice of today's parliament. All should vote in favour of this choice. Everyone has to say that our orientations, political values, are the orientations of a true European state. I've been asked today, and what will happen, so how will we accept it, and the power doesn't change? I want to tell you exactly, we're changing power, we're going to have normal European power, no corruption, no barriers, no criminals, no normal, professional prosecutors, no honest, fair judges, no normal president and no parliament. And then exactly Ukraine will be a member of the European Union and NATO. Barriers, corrupters, and criminals will go down in history. Vote for it!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u60	Thank you. Please give the floor to Irina Lucenko, who is given the right to speak by her colleague, Mr. Kozachenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Dear Ukrainians! Today, when we vote in favour of NATO and the EU, we do not vote in favour of the President or against him, we vote in favour of Ukraine. Because the course of the state should not depend on who's in charge. Today is not the time for political hypocrisy, either yes or no. No "restraint," no more "no vote" or "no vote." There's only one reason you're not here today, so your Kremlin's back is broken. So it is the responsibility of all the people who represent the interests of the people of Ukraine, I stress, the interests of Ukraine, to consolidate the choice of the Constitution to return to Europe and NATO. First of all, we must save Ukraine. And we're already raising these standards for today. EU and NATO standards are the garbage that has been removed from the regions. EU and NATO standards are the winning Stockholm arbitration in favour of Ukraine under the gas agreements. EU and NATO standards are weapons, "Vilha" (missile complex), this is "Stugna", this is "Grim", this is "BTR-4", this is "Kentavre"-class assault boats, this is, after all, 6 percent of GDP for reconstruction, the construction of the Ukrainian army. The Constitution is an act aimed at preserving the state. So let us keep Ukraine together today from the Kremlin’s invasion. The Celestial 100 made that choice. Volunteers made that choice in the 14th year. Our soldiers in the east made that choice. Volunteers made that choice. The Ukrainian people in Maidan made this choice. We're going our own way. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u62	Heroic glory! And for two minutes, I'm giving the final speech to Levchenk Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u63	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, first of all, I'd like to start my speech so that it doesn't make life easier for the various robots that will twist, as always, the truth, to say that the All-U.S. Freedom Union is voting for this bill. Of course it's a yes. But the problem is that it's a positive butt thing. It's a nice, very positive title, very nice speeches here from the rostrum by many, but there's absolutely no legal, legal workload. Is it necessary to establish in the Constitution a position that would make any movement of Ukraine impossible, except for the movement of Ukraine to NATO and to the European Union? Yes, such positions need to be fixed. But does this bill suggest such positions? No, he's not. The bill tells us that there are appropriate powers in Parliament, in the President, in the Cabinet to move towards NATO and the EU. But is such an obligation prescribed? No, it doesn't. Are there specific actions to be taken by Parliament or by Kabmin or by the President in this direction? No, it's not prescribed, it's just declarations. But the main problem of this bill is that the bill does not prohibit any action that would conflict with Ukraine's respective strategic aspirations. And here's the main problem. Yes, the Supreme Council will now vote in favour of this project. Yes, for the next few weeks, an oligarchate will tell us what a wonderful bill it is that seems to have fixed our movement to NATO. But it will be an open lie. Because if, God forbid, there will be an entirely promoskow majority in this Parliament, it can quietly spit on these standards that you are currently setting and move from Moscow if it wants to. Because these standards have no prohibitions. We suggested proper bans, but you ignored. You're replacing sacred, right things with positive things with just butaphoric things. It's like a candy wrapper, such a nice envelope, but there's no candy inside.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u64	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u65	Mr. Poshenko should know this and stop offering sugar - free sugar wrappers to society. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u66	And the closing statement is invited to the chairman of the Ruslan Knazevitch Committee. Three minutes, three minutes. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u67	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, we have actually completed the full procedure for discussing the Ukrainian law on the Supreme Council's regulation on how to amend the Constitution of Ukraine. This is very important because you realize that compliance with the constitutional procedure is now a priority, including possible due process before the Constitutional Court or constitutional review. As you know, in the event that the constitutional procedure is violated, this could be the basis for cancelling the relevant changes to the Constitution. We followed this procedure clearly. I will remind you once again that we are in the final phase of adopting the bill as a law. We have received an appropriate conclusion from the Constitutional Court, which says that the bill in question corresponds to the 157th and 158th articles of the Constitution, and the Court has made no reservations about its compliance with other articles of the Constitution. As well as the previous session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft bill had previously been approved, and so, today, in a new, pending session, we can proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the bill as a law. Accordingly, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice asks the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the bill and to vote it as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u68	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. Dear colleagues, I would like to invite you to the Hall of the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. Everyone please come into the hall, colleagues. Welcome! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I have also invited Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, Prime Minister of Ukraine, and members of the government who have introduced an association on the EU Agreement. [[Applause]] As well as the Prime Minister of Ukraine for 2014-2016, Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenuk. The government started this way. [[Applause]] And I invite you to the words of President Peter Alexiyovich Dustyenko of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u69	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Dear National Deputies! Honorable Members of the Ukrainian Government! Dear Ukrainian people! Dear Ukrainians! It's a historic day. Irina Stepanovna, today, can happen that your birthday will coincide with a unique, successful vote in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when the Constitution will anchor Ukraine's movement into the European Union as foreign political orientations, Ukraine's movement to the North Atlantic Alliance. Yesterday, in Brussels, Northern Macedonia received a protocol to join the North Atlantic Alliance. [[Applause]] So the members of the Alliance are going to be 30. And the path of Northern Macedonia was very difficult, but the country demonstrated unity, destroyed Russia's plans, which tried to stop this very important movement to security, to strengthen security in Europe, and NATO's doors were open to the thirtieth country. Yesterday, the European Commission decided to start negotiations on the membership of Northern Macedonia in the European Union. This is another demonstration of how these processes are interconnected – NATO and the EU. It is very important that NATO is about security. Security is not just military, it is not just a fundamental change in the geopolitical map of the world. This is also about the security of a citizen: street security, the protection of constitutional rights and civil liberties, the rule of law. And that is what unites us today with regard to changes to legislation and reforms in our beloved Ukraine. I stress that this is also related to the introduction to the European Union, Ukraine’s responsibility to the criteria necessary for membership, including the protection of the standards of living of a Ukrainian citizen. Reforms mean protecting people. Of course, 9 to 10 years ago, there were calls for multi-vectorism in this room, irresponsible calls for non-blocking. I want to remind everyone, in 2014, in February, Russia’s aggression began when Russia attacked Ukraine, which had a non-blocking status. And it didn't save us from anything. And now we must be determined to move forward, on the path to EU and NATO membership. A great friend of Ukraine and my great friend Jens Stoltenberg said this week that the door to NATO is open to any country that is capable of reforming the country and ensuring that the objectives of the Washington Treaty are met. It's about Ukraine. We've been doing this for the last five years: we're reforming the defence and security sector, we're reforming the army. And the role of the Supreme Council in this process is difficult to overestimate. And when it was difficult, the Supreme Council of Ukraine rejected political opposition and united. And it is unity that Ukraine needs today, and it is unity that is needed during our historic vote. And I am convinced that this unity will be demonstrated. I would like to point out that, right now, during the direct broadcast, the Kremlin is very closely observing the events of the Supreme Council. You can't wait! You will not find joy today! [[Applause]] And the Supreme Council today will demonstrate the unity that has been demonstrated for the past four years. But there are also millions of Ukrainians in Ukraine today watching from TV screens the way we vote in the Supreme Council. I'm sure you guys have some good news for you today. I am confident that we continue to work together to reform Ukraine, confident that the task of membership in the European Union and NATO is absolutely real. And just as we have demonstrated the achievement of other goals, in which few people believed, Ukraine will also ensure membership in NATO, membership in the EU by our joint efforts. We are on our way, and this is the way to Ukraine's membership in the EU and NATO. Thank you. I call for unity. And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u70	Heroim Slava! Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause]] Colleagues, in 30 seconds we're going to the vote. So I ask everyone who has not yet taken up the job to come in and prepare for the vote. I remind you, this is 300 votes, so carefully, everyone please return to the hall. And, colleagues, on this day, I want to remind you how my day, unfortunately, here in this room, at the time of Yanukovich, was cancelled our course in NATO by voting, as here we have been denied the Association Agreement. And today we all have a chance in this room and have the opportunity to have a historic vote in favour of Ukraine's accession to the EU and NATO. Here in Parliament, we stand before the choice of Ukraine's future, here's the front line, our choice is a powerful, free and secure Ukraine. We vote for Ukraine, we vote for the future! Pursuant to article 155 of the Constitution of Ukraine, parts of the eighth 149th Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine put to the vote a proposal for the adoption of a draft Ukrainian law (No. 9037) amending the Constitution (for the strategic course of the State for the acquisition of full membership of Ukraine in the EU and NATO). People's deputies, please vote, colleagues. We vote for Ukraine, we vote for our future, we vote! Carefully, we vote responsibly, colleagues. [[11:48:37]] For 334 Decision taken. [[Applause]] The changes adopted to the Constitution are the irreversibility of our European choice, the beginning of real integration, this is a milestone for Ukraine's history. Ukraine will be in the EU. Ukraine will be in NATO. To victory! Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Colleagues, please don't break up, it's very important not to split up right now. Now we still have time to put the day session in order. And, colleagues, this is a high level of concentration. I ask you not to leave, and I ask everyone to vote responsibly now for the inclusion of the day session. The first one is proposed. You've all been asked the questions that are being asked. First. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on electoral monitoring (9524). About the inadmissibility of Russian observers in the Ukrainian elections, the inadmissibility of the aggressor country. I ask you to vote for the inclusion of the day's decision and decision-making today. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Voting, supporting. Return to your seats, we vote. [[11:50:25]] For 268. Decision taken. My colleagues, before we go to the next vote, I would like to thank everyone for participating in our meeting, for this work, which was done after joining the EU and NATO. And I'm sure we'll win together. [[Applause]] Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Next, colleagues, is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedural Ukraine to improve certain provisions in connection with the conduct of a special trial (9353). Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich came to see us. This is very important for us to be able to continue our investigation against the opponents, against the Yanukovic regime. Colleagues, I ask you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making now. I'm asking you to vote, I'm asking you to support me. Colleagues, we vote. Please support, we vote, this is a very important decision. Colleagues, we support. [[11:51:34]] For 202 Apparently, not all colleagues were orientated. Colleagues, the point is to extend the time limit when actions against representatives of the Januković regime can continue. Colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize, I'm asking you to mobilize. Show the factions, please, now. Colleagues, so mobilize. I'm proposing the inclusion of a day-to-day session in order to make a decision now, draft Law 9353. Please vote and support everyone. Colleagues, we vote carefully, please support. Please vote. Vote. We're backing it up. Please be supportive. [[11:52:29]] For 196 Colleagues, fewer votes. We do. Yuri Vitaliovich! My colleagues, with your permission, I'll give Lucenk Yuri Vitaliovich 30 seconds. Then I'll put it in. Colleagues, 30 seconds. This is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please, Yuri Vitaliyovich, one minute. If you don't mind, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to your decision taken on the day of my appointment by the Attorney-General, the law enforcement system has been given the opportunity to bring to justice and judicial attention those suspected of particularly serious crimes. It is with this decision that you have made today that you are officially a traitor and a criminal. However, in your decision, there is a paragraph that states that such a right to acquittal ends with the creation of the State Bureau of Investigation. As we know, it was created in November of last year. Then the case against Yanuković, Zacharychenk, Jakimenka, and others who gave a criminal order to shoot our brothers in Maidan will be handed over immediately after you have passed the proposed law. The case of Kurchenk will also be brought to trial immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u72	One more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u73	And the other Janukovich environment, who couldn't be brought to justice. The trial is also ready to be completed in absentia against 45 terrorists, including Strjlkova, who organized a cathina in Slavansk, who was the victim of at least 45 dismembered Ukrainian citizens. In this regard, I ask you to support the bill because it opens the way to punishment for those who have robbed, killed, and continues to wage war against the Ukrainian State. This law meets all the standards, including the removal of Interpol's issue of the order of arrest and the placing of red cards on international search. Please support, and I guarantee that in the near future, the shooting of the organizers of the Maydan shooting, the terrorist cases will go to trial. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u74	Thank you. Colleagues, this is a really responsible decision. A lot of people came out of the hall. Please return to the hall! Get back in the hall! Well, every vote counts, colleagues. So I'm putting a motion to vote to put into the agenda for the decision now of Bill 9353, which I just reported to Yuri Lucenko so that we can continue to lead against members of the Janukovic regime. So, colleagues, please vote and please support. We are voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making now. Vote, please support, vote. Colleagues, carefully every vote, we vote. [[11:55:56]] For 203 I'll put it again, now there are no votes. Next. Draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the national parliaments of NATO member states on the acquisition of NATO membership by Ukraine (10007), the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Please vote, please support, vote. [[11:56:31]] For 275 Decision taken. The next one is 7473. Draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine (7473), inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Please vote, please support, vote. [[11:56:58]] For 208 I'm going to put the 7473 in the agenda for the decision-making session again. Please vote, please support. [[11:57:20]] For 215 Colleagues, the next one is 9417. Draft Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization of Proceeds by Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Spread of Weapons of Mass Destruction (9417). Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:57:55]] For 255 Decision taken. The next one is 9508. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support me very much. I would like to vote in favour of the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Vote. I'll hold it! Let's back it up. [[11:58:27]] For 284 Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the continuous supply of electricity to operators (9406, 9406-1). Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:58:59]] For 268. Decision taken. And the final one is 10006. Draft Act amending the Housing Code of the Ukrainian RSR and other Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of owners. Alternative, too, of course he is. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:59:35]] For 254 And, colleagues, I will ask again, I have the right to put this under the Rules, to bring forward the proposal 9353 on the continuation of the trial of the Janukovic criminals. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support me. I say again, I have the right to put it under the law. Yuri Vitaliyovich, I'm voting again. I'm voting again, and I'm asking all my colleagues to take up jobs. I am voting on the proposal to include the draft Law 9353 in the agenda of today’s day session, as reported by Attorney General Yuri Lucenko. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support me. Each voice has a weight. Don't go in the hall. Please vote, please support. We vote, we support inclusion for decision-making now, we vote. Please support, colleagues, we vote. The committee supported, there is a committee decision. [[12:00:43]] For 212 Colleagues, then, colleagues, I have another proposition. 12:00. Why don't we just take 30 minutes? No, right? Come on, I'll put it in. Who's for canceling the break at 12:00-12:30, please vote, please support. If not, I'll call it a day. Please vote, please support the cancellation of the break at 12:00-12:30. Vote. As the hall decides, colleagues. [[12:01:20]] For 165 The decision is not taken. And I hereby declare a 30-minute recess under the law. At 12:30 I ask everyone to return to the Hall for further consideration of changes to the Constitution, my colleague. And I congratulate everyone once again on our decision. 12:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u75	Colleagues, the time taken for a break, is complete, and we can move on to the next issue of the agenda. This is a draft Act amending article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine (renameing the Dnipropetrov region) (Nos. 9310 and 9310-1). Colleagues, I believe and believe that it is our duty to have one of the largest and most iconic areas of Ukraine not to have the name Dnipropetrovska, and I believe that today's changes to the Constitution should continue with a positive vote on the renaming of the Dnipropetrovsk region. So now I want to invite you to the interview room Lucenko Irina Stepanovna and Denisenko Andrija Sergiyovich. And please invite them to the hall so that we can start a discussion of the subject. Colleagues, drafters of the bill, are invited to attend. So, honourable national MPs, your consideration is about the inclusion in the agenda of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation and referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of draft laws of registration numbers 9310 and 9310-1 on the amendment of article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for the renaming of the Dnipropetrov region). According to the requirements of part one of article 146 of the Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. Therefore, the same order of conduct is proposed as we considered changes to the Constitution. The first is two reporters, based on a basic and alternative bill. And I'm the only one calling the reporters. Andrew, don't use it all the time, because we can't make it. I have a request because otherwise we just might not get to the vote all the time. Then the report is given to the committee. Then the word is given to all groups and factions. Then he spoke to the national MPs. And, colleagues, the final word, and the vote. This procedure will also take more than an hour, and so I ask everyone to be as concise as possible during consideration and discussion. And I invite you to the address, for the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council, Irina Stepanovna Lucenko. Please, Mrs. Irina. Get ready for Andrey Denisenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, free, democratic elections are the guarantee of permanent democracy in any country of the world. It is clear that in the context of military aggression and occupation of part of the territory of Ukraine, the presence of the aggressor State and the occupying State may pose risks to democratic and impartial elections in the state. Yes, according to the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service, the Russian Federation is preparing an unprecedented intervention in Ukraine’s elections, predicting about $350 million. Its goal is to stop the Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine at any cost. [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me, I'll take the materials now. Excuse me, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u77	We need to understand that everyone is in a state of high tension, making decisions. And Mrs. Irina has a number of laws to report. So, colleagues, Mrs. Irina. We'll support Mrs. Irina Lucenko. I'm inviting you to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, we will be holding the election of the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine and the local elections this year. But the main thing is that we are looking at other changes to the Constitution today. Your attention is drawn to the proposal made by the President of Ukraine and defined as an immediate draft of the Act amending Article 133 of the Constitution (renameing the Dnipropetrov region) (registration number 9310 of 21.11.2018). This legislative initiative is proposed from the following. Current legislation prohibits the public use of Communist totalitarian symbolism in Ukraine. The symbolism of such a regime includes, inter alia, the names of the areas where the names of the Communist Party’s chieftains, the higher authorities, and the administration of the Soviet Union and the USSR are used. The name of the Dnipropetrov region contains a reference to an actor of such a regime, one of the organizers of the Holodomor Grigory Petrovsky, and thus falls under the prohibition and needs to be renamed. In 16th, Parliament renamed the city of Dnipropetrovsk, which is the district center of the region, Dnipro. The area should be renamed after the name of its district center, Dnipro. In view of this, the head of state proposes to rename the Dnipropetrov region to Dniprovsk. Renaming is another important step in the way of getting rid of Soviet markers and archetypes that held Ukrainian citizens in common ideological space with Russia. The full completion of this phase will be the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the consolidation of the strategic course of Ukraine, which we have already voted on today. Such changes confirm our European identity, which means that the Ukrainian people fully share the civilizational values inherent in the European community, which in turn are inextricably linked to responsibility. In view of the above, I ask that the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine be supported and that Bill 9310 be incorporated into the agenda, sent to the Constitutional Court to reach a conclusion on its compliance with the requirements of the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u79	Thank you. The report is given by Andriy Sergiyovich Denisenko to the Ukrainian national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u80	Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen! I hope that today, at last in the Supreme Council, it will not take the strength to take an extremely important and symbolic step that will establish in the heart of Ukraine, in the territory of Sicheslav, in the territory where there were 5 out of 8 Cossacks, our Ukrainian pietomo symbols and designs. No one denies that decommunization is extremely important. But in view of the challenges that Ukraine has faced in recent years in connection with the conflict, the aggression of the Russian Federation and the occupation of our territory, it is not just decommunization that is important to erase the enemy’s symbols and ideas, it is vital to figuratively suppress the Ukrainian character of the land. It was Dnipro and the area in 14 that performed the same historical function that Sich, a defender of Ukraine had performed. This is the mission of our region, which has been in operation for 500 years and which has been restored, reactivated by recent events. There were volunteer battalions, there was a logistics base and a medical base of our army, where, 500 years ago, the famous name Sici was formed, a bone of a nation that gave way to a Russian aggressor. And today, when I call you to support you not just, you know, a good name, I'm the author of the renaming of the city to Dnipro, it's a beautiful name, it's Ukrainian, it's a pietome, it's local, and it's a historical compromise, so that, on the one hand, the modern concept of Dnipro exists with the historical concept that connects us to the era of the Ukrainian People's Republic and to the age of Cossack. For no one is the secret that Siceslav -- that's what our city was called -- is one of the historical names of the district center that is supported, by the way, it's always the second in the post-Dnipra rating, supported by the public, which is what the Governor's then-called center in the Ukrainian People's Republic era was called. This name was widely discussed. There is support for the public council in the district government. There's support for the public council at Dniper's city head. There's, in the end, turning 60 with a little bit of public organization to each of the national MPs, and I know that you've received these references in writing from our activists. You know. No one knows where we'll be tomorrow after the elections that will take place in the fall. But each of us today has a historic, epochal opportunity to support the Ukrainian character of an extremely important, geostrategically important region for Ukraine's fate, and thus to make a small contribution to our common Ukrainian history. I am. Mr. Head, can you tell me, please, can we show? Dear friends, I know you've been approached by representatives of the public. I don't know, I'm going to repeat where the People's Deputy Denisenko will be after this election. If, God forbid, this is how it will happen the last time that we lacked some misunderstandings and political weaknesses, literally 20 votes, you know, maybe Dennisenka won't be in the next room, in the next call, but it will. This idea will surely prevail, for it is the spirit of our Cossack, the retinal glorious land. Nothing will stop the idea that the time has come.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u81	Please turn on the video in the time for the interview. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u82	Thank you, colleagues. But now we have the necessary part -- the answer to the interviewees' questions. And so again, Mr. Andrew, I invite you to the rostrum. First, Mrs. Irina, three minutes to ask, and then, Mr. Andrew, three minutes to ask. Mrs. Irina! Let's start with Dennisenka. Mr. Andrew, please return to the rostrum. Denisenko, listen to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the rostrum, three minutes to ask. Please. So please record the question. Sergey Eutuszek, please. He's handing John Krulke over.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u83	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I actually have a question for the President of the Supreme Council regarding Bill 9310. Tell me, what was the need after the MPs had drafted the bill -- and I'm the co-author of this bill -- for the change to Siecheslavsk, for the initiative of MPs to add another name to bring division here and to show another position? I believe that in the question of decommunization, Parliament should be unanimous, we must put an end to this Soviet past that destroyed the Ukrainians. And you don't have to split the hall by making two proposals, because it looks like an initiative to make sure that neither one of them does, and then Petrovsky stays in the name of the Dnipropetrov region. We're against it. So let's call this the Siecheslav region, a uniting area. And look at this movie, how many Ukrainian patriots support this approach. Please, remove this bill and unify the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u84	Thank you. Mr. Ivan, but with your permission, I will answer. I personally am a consistent and firm supporter of the Sicheslav region. But the president passed the bill after the Sicheslav region collapsed here, in this room, without a vote. And in order not to allow the Dnipropetrovsk region to be left behind, the President brought Dniprovsk. And so let's not put up a fight here right now, Mr. John, it's not right and wrong. Today, the hall is to be united, and the President has given the opportunity and the way. I think Sicheslav region will be supported today. But let us give less emotion and more unity around us so that we can collectively rename the Dnipropetrov region, and that will be wise. So now I invite you to the question of Vladislav Dove, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u85	Thank you very much. Please pass the word to Victor Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u86	That's a question, I remind you, for Andrew Denisenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u87	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. I have a question for the representative of the President in the Parliament of Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u88	There will be a separate question to Lucenko, now the question to Dennisenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u89	I don't understand your logic, Mr. Head, but fine. The situation is simple. I'm asking Mr. Denisenko. In your opinion, when the "Mova, Faith, Army" boards hang for the patriots of our country (me too from Dniepra, from Kamyanski), is the fourth word for "Siceslav" or is it not? And when the faction does not vote when the deputy of this faction before that, in 2015, when we decommunized Dnipropetrovsk, proposed a bill to rename Dnipropetrovsk to Dnipropetrovsk, but now in honor of St. Peter as if, and the faction of the President does not vote for Sichslav region. So please, tell me what you think is the logic and who may be setting up the President, who may be the one to inform him.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u90	Thank you. Mr. Andrey, one minute. And there will be questions for Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u91	Dear friends, I think this should be a matter of national unity and a vote of national unity, that at some point we should put aside our differences as factional, as party. This issue of national integration, as well as the question of national integration, has been the subject of the introduction to the Constitution of provisions on Ukraine's membership in NATO and the EU. In fact, it's a shame that we've made some time with you and we've adjusted the pace on this very important issue. But at the same time, our predecessors have waited over 100 years for this moment. Personally, I believe that even a few months lost, from a historical point of view, from a geopolitical point of view, these events are justified if, in fact, the hall is now consolidated and united around the name Siecheslavska, which reflects the current, current, and historic mission of our region, its meaning and spirit.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u92	So, colleagues. Thank you, Mr. Andrew. I invite Irina Lucenko to the rostrum. And while she's going, colleagues, you know there's decommunization for me, and you know how I initiated it and conducted it. I've had long conversations with the President of Ukraine. I want to tell you, the President of Ukraine also supports the Sicheslav region. And only after he didn't get the votes in the room did he bring a way. So I'm stressing this is a way of not leaving the Dnipropetrov region. Today, we will have the opportunity to do so with our voices. Siceslavska will be fine. There'll be support in the hall, okay. But this should be done by means of unification, not disunity, even on such a question. So three minutes before Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, answering our questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u94	Ira, there'll be a question, then a recording. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u95	Would you pass the Illenka, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u96	Please, Mr. Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u97	Illenka, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In fact, it is very late for us to approach such obvious things, but it is never too late. Because, in fact, Petrovsky’s bloodthirsty plot, recognized by a Ukrainian criminal, one of the organizers of Holodomor, has no explanation at all as to how his name could be, a bloody name, called the beautiful Ukrainian region. It is the same as having a region in Israel called one of the organizers of the Holocaust, which is unthinkable. And in Ukraine, unfortunately, there are still, we have to change that. But, you know, I'm still in favor of historical justice and Freedom for historical justice. That's why we think the name Siceslav is the name that should be. And I don't think there should be an allergy in this room or anywhere else to the English word "Citch." I think this allergy is unnatural. We need to be Ukrainians, and we need to know our history, and this land that gave birth to Zaporezka Sietch is Ukraine today. That's why only Siceslavska.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u98	Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u99	Dear national deputies, we remember the previous vote: the hall did not take the appropriate number of votes. What does this talk about? What, with all due respect for the name Sicheslavska, my personal respect, the fact that the Hall did not find votes means that not all inhabitants of the Dnipropetrov region support such changes. Appropriately, in order to eradicate the names of those who abused the Ukrainian nard, including during the famine, the President proposed the name Dniprovsky region, which geographically bears the name of their district center. Now in this room, you're going to define which name is better for you. By this majority of today's votes, we will show that there is both opposition in Parliament and a dominant coalition that is going on in Parliament: there is a debate in Parliament, there is respect for each other in favour of a law, a proposal or a change to the Constitution. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u100	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u101	I remind our opposition, the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, is the same subject of the legislative initiative as any of our national deputies, both from opposition and from a perverse coalition. Therefore, it is up to you today to support one or another choice, or to support both options, and to submit it to the Constitutional Court, which will take the appropriate decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u102	Thank you. Please, Sporish Ivan Dmitrovich, a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u103	Ivan Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin, Peter Dusty Block. Of course, as soon as possible, and you just said the right thing, and that will also be a partial answer to my question. But the sooner we get rid of that communist past, the better it will be than those catas that tortured our people. But I would just like to ask the second question, first, is that you gave the answer, and second, the people of Dniper, the Mayor of Philate, were they even associated with us? How does he want it? It's very important for me to have the opinion of Mayor Filatov and the people himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u104	Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, there are representatives of the Dnipropetrov region, national deputies who are delegated to represent the Dnipropetrov region in this room. So by voting in this room, once again, I emphasize, for one project or another, we're going to show how much more support is going to be given to the Hall, and accordingly, and that part of the Dnipropetrov region, either for Sicheslavsk or for Dniprovsk. I propose to go to the vote. There are two clearly defined positions: one, compromise, to avoid allowing in the middle of one area to disrupt the situation by naming the geographical name of the district center; or Siceslavska, which will highlight our heroic and bold Cossack past. I think by voting without offense let's vote and define this position. The Peter Prashenko Block was really addressed by representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Question time is complete. And, colleagues, now come from factions and groups. Anyone who intends to take part in the discussion, please hold the record. And while the recording goes on, colleagues, and the main purpose is to make a decision today, so it's not the same as the last time we left the room without a decision. This is the main purpose. And not only do we have to beat each other and try to discredit each other right now, but we have to make a positive decision, colleagues. Well, that's the point. So from factions and groups. Colleagues, now speak from factions, then from deputies, the closing word, and then the voting. It'll be real in 20 minutes. From Peter Prashenko's Block, I invite you to Arthur Gerasimov, the head of the faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u107	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, respected journalists, respected Ukrainians! Today, the Ukrainian Parliament has already adopted one fine historical decision – it has supported President Peter Prashenko's proposal to secure our desire to be in the EU and be in NATO in the Constitution. Thank you very much to every national MP, thank you very much to every faction and group that supported this decision. But it is also today overwhelming to continue the way of decommunization that this pro-democracy, pro-Ukrainian, finally the Supreme Council has long gone. Four years ago. So, dear colleagues, we have to change the name of the Dnipropetrov region. But because today, indeed, there is a large part of the MPs who support Sicheslavsky, the large ones who support Dniprovsky, the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko will support both decisions and call for everyone to be referred to the Constitutional Court of Sichslav region as well. Dear colleagues, I ask you to unite so that these two decisions can be directed to the Constitutional Court, and you and I could continue our educational work in order to form a session hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u108	From the "Fatherland" faction, Ivan Krulko. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u109	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainians, the Ukrainian Parliament has indeed done a very big job in the matter of decommunization. And this must end with the renaming of two areas left over with the names of the Ukrainian people, such as Kirov and Petrovsky. We are now discussing the question of whether Petrovsky's name, which, according to the ruling of the Ukrainian Court of Appeal, the Kiev Court of Appeal, is one of the organizers of the Holodomor, the genocide of the Ukrainian people, is with Stalin, with all the difficulties that have resulted in the killing of more than 10 million Ukrainians, and that is why this Parliament and the memory of the millions of Ukrainians who have suffered, wiped out from our history, from the appointment of Ukrainian cities and the catatic areas of the Ukrainian people. We have to do this. I am a co-author with my colleagues in the "Fatherland" faction of the bill, which refers to the appointment of the Dnipropetrov region in the Sichslav region. We think it was a restoration of historical justice when today's city of Dnipro in the time of the Ukrainian People's Republic was called Siceslav, and we have been running our statehood since 1991, we have a century tradition of Ukrainian statehood. And you don't have to forget what our cities were called by those who created the Ukrainian state under the difficult conditions of the 20th century and called the Ukrainian cities. And I want to go to the BP faction and remind you how on November 20th this decision was broken down in this room because the Presidential faction did not vote for the name "Siceslav." And I want to remind you how hard it was for us in this room to rename Kirovograd to Kropivnicki. I remind you of that. And I want to remind you how they suggested we take down Kirovograd, but give the name Elisavettgrad to return the name to the queen of Moscow to the Ukrainian city. What was that, from our factions, that kind of supply? No, they were proposals from the Presidential faction. Let us stop playing with Ukrainian memory and Ukrainian history. Let us unite the session hall. You want two cities. Two names to go to the Constitutional Court? Let them go. But it shows once again the unwillingness to restore historical justice to Ukrainian cities, and you can see the desire to play with these things. That's why the "Fatherland" faction will vote in favour of both decisions, but our conviction is to name today's Dnipropetrovsk Region of Sichslavsk and thus to preserve the memory of the Ukrainian People's Republic and those who really fought to make Ukraine a Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u110	Thank you. Next performance. Please, from Rebirth Group Valery Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, you know, the "Rebirth Party" faction looks a little differently at the question that is being discussed today. And it's not about what to call the area, it's about what to do inside the country. We're talking about that the actual order of the day that is in the country today is something different. Look at the sociology that is now being printed almost every day. Are there at least in the first 20 questions the question of renaming cities, districts? Are there people today experiencing what will be called the area? This may be of concern to many politicians, but I think many people living in the country today are more concerned about peace. They are concerned about where they will work, and they are deeply concerned about where their children will be taught. If you look at it, millions of people have left the country in the last five years. It doesn't bother anyone. Why doesn't the economics matter, and we're not talking to you here, and how do we get the areas that we're talking about today to give them back the status of industrial cities? Why do not representatives of these cities today say that dozens of factories that worked and paid taxes made GDP, gave people a job, closed today? And there's no plan to do anything new. Why is it being discussed today and trying to sell us as a victory, changing us without changing what is going to be done inside? If you look closely at the sociology that is unfortunately being discussed today only because of how many votes will be won during the election campaign, I think it's better to look at what people want to change in this country. And I want to say that you'll be surprised: there's a question of peace, there's an economic question, there's a question of tariffs. I want to support my colleagues in this rostrum and talk about what we need to do first of all about gas and tariff prices. If this is a pre-election promise, and she is, everyone will forget about her when the election campaign is over, then there is no need to deceive people. And I think there are normal bills today. So we need you with us now, perhaps from this rostrum not so loudly, but to speak with meaning. And with a sense of meaning, we need to take 3-4 questions that really bother people and work with these questions. I am convinced that we have very many laws that are already in force that work very well. And no matter what the name of the area is, I think that the citizens of the city and the areas themselves could say it, but for us more importantly, for Parliament, to say whether people will live there or whether they will go live in other countries with other names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u112	Please, from the People's Front faction, Yuri Berez will be speaking. Please. Mrs. Jury to present her faction's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I am one of those descendants of those who were starved to death in 32-33. My father’s family of 11 children died nine years ago. Now that they're talking, the previous speaker said, "This is not the time for us to decide to change areas now, to clean up our streets of Communist idols of the past," I'll say, that's not true. That's not right. On time. We've all seen a beautiful video where moral authorities, for me, are moral authorities, speak of the Siecheslav region. I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, that in fact the victories of the country, my country, not this country, but my country, began on our lands. In 1648, the United Zaporizka Army, along with the Crimean Tatars under the leadership of Father Hmel, gave such a bloody Polish army that it is still remembered by Polish descendants. In the 14th year, the descendants of those famous Cossacks made it clear that the Moscals simply didn't take Siecheslavsk and Siecheslavsk region and didn't take Ukraine. I'm underlining that. I don't mind, of course, initiating the President, but I want to talk about historical truth. Historical truth tells of the fact that in the territory of these lands of my native region, still the Siecheslav spirit, the spirit of Cossackism, has been preserved to this day. In many villages so far, the name of the streets begins: The first hundred, the second hundred, the third hundred, the tenth hundred, the fifteenth hundred. All the villages and towns were organized by Cossacks in their time. Not Catherine, Elizabeth, another cholera from Moscow. And I emphasize that the Siecheslavs have the right to their historical name. Siecheslav, yes! I'm asking you, Your Honor, to support the Siecheslavs. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u114	Thank you. Please, from the opposition block faction, Alexander Wilkul is invited to the floor. And then, colleagues, three more factions failed to sign up for "self-help," by "the will of the people." After, after. And then from. After. And from the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u115	In the past four years, the people of Ukraine have named tens of thousands of cities, streets, districts, villages, and villages, with tens of thousands of monuments. I have a question for you: Did life get better or not? Tell me, your names will bring home more than 10 million Ukrainians who are now forced to work abroad to feed their families because in Ukraine, the economy is failing because you are doing nothing to support people, to support industry, to support jobs? Please tell me, will this renaming reduce the utility tariffs? Will people continue to freeze in their homes? Please tell me, will this renaissance end the war – the most important issue today in our country? Of course not. Are you continuing to distract people from problems, from real problems? Yes. Protecting people and distracting them. Please tell the distinguished leaders why our bills on lowering municipal tariffs, industrial support, new jobs, banning collectors and many others are not coming into the hall, why? Because you don't care. Because you want to distract yourself. Please tell me, do you really think that 98 percent in the state, 98 percent of Ukrainians don't support the Supreme Council, can you make these decisions? No, it's not. I demand that such a decision, as the title of the area, be made by the people themselves in the local referendum. Let's just print the papers -- it's hardly worth anything -- and together with the President's election or the parliamentary election, let's hold a referendum in the region. And let people say for themselves what they want to call their area, and not you will decide that without even using any trust in society. And then there will be democracy in Ukraine. You say in every sentence: Ukraine is Europe. But it's not Europe, it's more like Europe. Europe, but Germany in the 1930s. Modern Europe is a local referendum. Modern Europe — when people decide for themselves what monuments they will have, what festivals and what their street, city or region will be called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u116	Please, Irina Podowak is invited to the floor to present the position of her self-help faction. From the deputies, from the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, after such a performance, the truth is, they want to wipe out the rostrum. It's so Ukrainian. There's this Ukrainian saying, "With a pot of furniture, it'll smell." So let's not try to fool each other. If we vote in favour of two decisions, it will be another fraud against us and all the Ukrainians. Because the Constitutional Court no doubt recognizes that both decisions are constitutional. And then after a while, we'll be discussing the same thing again in this room for half an hour, an hour and a half. In order to adopt the only right decision today, to exercise political will, not to listen to all sorts of separatists who cannot say goodbye to Moscow and Kremlin symbols in Ukraine. Ukrainian space should be marked with Ukrainian characters. All of you, please be united. Please show political will, because that is what this Parliament is for. And to vote in favour of referring to the Constitutional Court the law on renaming to the Siceslav region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u118	Thank you. Please, let's have a word with the Eugen Ribczynski, who represents the position of "The will of the people." And the closing statement from the MPs and factions will be in Oleg Lacha after.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u119	That's right. Dear Mr. Oleg, we have it now. I would like to say that those groups and factions that have signed up for the performance now appear in order of order of order, and we are moving forward in order of those who have not signed up and turned to the presidency. Mr. Eugene, please give you your word and then Mr. Laishka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u120	The "will of the people" group is clearly against the name "Dnipropetrovska". John Petrovsky was a Catholic of the Ukrainian people, and this is already well - known, and all the work, volumes, has been written about it. Excuse me. [[B in m in s a l in]] Gregory, Gregory. Excuse me. The desire to vote for Sicheslav is, of course, much more, because it's not just a formality, it's also an ideological name that's based on a certain basis. You see what the Russian Federation does: they steal our history, they steal our history, and they put our princes on their lands as monuments, they made the film "Taras Bulba," where the Ukrainian Cossacks swear to the Russian King. And we can't call the Siceslav region one vote to make everyone understand that Sich is Ukraine. How could you say that, please? It's not just consciousness, it's war, it's war, and it's going in this room in particular. And we could vote for the Dniprovsk region, and I think if there's no choice left, so there's no Dnipropetrovsk, we'll vote for Dniprovsk. But I urge the entire hall to focus and vote for Sicheslavski, because it will be a historic and ideological victory. Thank you very much, and please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u121	Thank you. And please welcome from the Radical Party Oleg Lazko, from this faction. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u122	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. In 1945, when Adolf Hitler Strasse was renamed in Berlin, no one asked permission but was restored to justice and renamed. That's why our team is voting for these changes to the Constitution. But once again, what I want to say is that the key thing that Ukraine and Ukrainians need today is to rebuild the country so that there is a strong economy, so that every Ukrainian family has a well-being, a decent salary and a full refrigerator. Today’s policy of power has, unfortunately, led to the fact that in most people, empty refrigerators, their incomes, pensions, wages are forced to spend on a space utility. Last week, I was in Bloody Rose -- a beautiful city of metallurgy, sculptors, a beautiful city. Unfortunately, there is no road to the city. There's no road from Bloody Horn to Dnipro. There's no way out of the Horn of Curve on Santa's road. There's no way out of the Bloody Horn on the Croop Road. There's no way from the Horn of Curve to Nicopol. In fact, they turned the city into an enclave that could not be reached. As I drove to the Horn of Curve from Zaporozhye, I broke two wheels. That's how they go. So I went to the Jeep, and what do you want to say for an ambulance? What's to say for VAZ, you little rascal? What about a school bus? So the key thing is for both Dnipropetrovska and Curve Rig and our Ukraine to develop is to repair roads. That's why I'm calling on the government to budget work plans for this year to repair the road to the Curve Horn from Dniper, from Mikolayev, from Kropivnicki to Nikopol to restore the transit potential of the Horn of Curve, so that the economy will work, so that a great one, particularly the Ingulatic HOC, where I met with the teams, so that they can export their products, develop, get more wages to fill local budgets and solve environmental issues. In order for the inhabitants of the Horn of Creatures to live in dignity, they also make money for young people not to seek earnings abroad. The only way to get young people back to Ukraine and not allow them to leave is to have a decent life, a decent salary, a strong Ukrainian economy and a chance to earn money in their own country. To a resident of the village of Lozovatka in the district of Crivoruzia Petrovna, where the pension of 1770 is to be paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u123	Oleg Valeriyovich, I ask you to speak on the subject of the bill. It's the same position for everyone. Please speak on the subject of the bill. It's very important, it's really important. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u124	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I think there is no more important topic than the decent life of Ukrainians, worthy of pensions, worthy of wages, jobs for young people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u125	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u126	30 seconds. Let's do justice. Do not limit the right of the opposition faction. There is no more important topic than Ukraine's development, strong economy, available tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u127	Oleg Valeriyovich, thank you. You're welcome. Who's next? My colleagues, I'm underlining again. All I'm asking is to talk about the bill. As I warned you, I'll turn off the microphones. And that's why I'm asking everyone. I'm warning you there won't be an insult in the hall. I'm just going to turn off the microphone, no matter who's running for presidents, no matter who's not running for presidents. It's the same for everyone, colleagues. So we finished the factions. It's 6 minutes for the people's deputies. Please sign up for the performance. Eutusek Sergei gives the floor to John Krulk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u128	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I would like to continue my statement from this high rostrum and remind all Ukrainian citizens that the welfare of the Ukrainian people, the rise in social standards and the dignity of every Ukrainian is inextricably linked to how we will restore historical justice. "They don't let slaves into heaven." So if we want Ukraine to be a country in which every Ukrainian is comfortable and decent to live, we have to get rid of the terrible past and the catas that, unfortunately, are in the names of our areas to date: those who organized the Holocaust, the genocide of the Ukrainian people, those who, by faithfully serving the Kremlin and Moscow, and the desires of Stalin personally, were organizers in Ukraine of the Holocaust genocide that took the lives of more than 10 million Ukrainians. Clearly, then, the name Petrovsky cannot be in the name of the Ukrainian region. That's why the "Fatherland" faction consistently supports the idea of drawing from the historical name given to the Ukrainian People's Republic when Ukraine was independent between the two world wars, namely Siecheslavska, so that this name could be established. At the same time, we see a game today, we see a desire that this decision does not go away, neither does it. Because unfortunately, in this Parliament, including the largest faction called the President's name, there is a large part of those who do not wish to decommunize Ukraine, who believe that communist names and communist slogans should remain in the names of our areas. And that's why different projects are being made to break this room apart and not allow any decisions to be made. Therefore, as a political power, we feel that this decision must be made immediately, we need to restore historical memory, and we really need to work to change the lives of every person in Ukraine. And we, as the Fatherland faction, require consideration of the issues that relate to the moratorium on tariffs and which relate to deligarchization and deoffshorization. Together, we vote the questions that concern people today and restore historical memory. Then we will be respected, and confidence in Parliament will be increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u129	Thank you. And the final performance is Stashuk Vitaly. Gives the floor to Andrew Teteruk. Colleagues, one minute. Then there will be the final word of the committee and the vote, that is, the vote will take place in about five minutes. So I ask the factions to invite all the deputies into the hall. I ask the secretariat to report that in five minutes we are moving on to the decision-making process. I'd like to introduce you to Andrew Teteruk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! In this session hall, we have made many important state decisions that have dramatically changed the course of history, of Ukrainian history. Why is it important to us who live today? Because based on the powerful foundation of our history, we can look boldly to the future. And protecting our history is as much our duty as protecting our future. Here the fifth column manipulates whether we will end the war by voting for the renaming. I'll give you an honest and honest answer: no, the war with the aggressor you brought here on your shoulders, we're not going to end it. But we're going to end the Communist Party era, we're going to kill a nail in the coffin of the Communist Party that was tortured here, killing Ukrainians, hundreds, millions of Ukrainians were tortured by commies. We're going to kill that last nail of renaming Communist areas, cities and all that process that we started with you and we're going to finish here. And what's important is that we don't allow this process to be passed on to another organization. This issue must be taken up by the Ukrainian Parliament. I call upon all the national MPs to return to the session room, to give their conscious voice for this area to be renamed from a Communist name to an important historical name. I urge everyone to rename this area to Siceslavsk. This is a tribute to our glorious ancestors, a tribute to the historic past that we are proud of with you, especially that this will be important progress towards the future -- an independent, Ukrainian, free future that we have with you, including our military at the front, we are protecting within the country, here, in our Ukrainian Parliament. Today we have to rename this area. Please come to the hall and vote. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u131	Thank you. Colleagues, there's not enough people in the room. Heads of factions, I'm addressing you in three minutes, two or three minutes. Please delegate someone to invite everyone into the hall so that everyone can be in the hall. Now to both the co-report and the final report, I invite the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice of Janicky Vasil Petrovich. And after that vote. Please invite everyone into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council at its meeting, considered the draft Law on Amendments to Article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine, submitted by the President of Ukraine on 21 November 18 and submitted by 165 members of the Supreme Council, the draft Act on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, regarding the renaming of the Dnipropetrov region under registration number 9310-1, and established the following. The Committee considers that both bills meet the requirements of article 157, 158 of the Ukrainian Constitution. Taking into account the situation of article 146 of the Rules of Procedure of Ukraine. The Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the day-to-day vote of the two bills submitted by the President of Ukraine be determined by registration number 9310 and the bill submitted by the People's Deputies under registration number 9310-1 and that both bills be sent to the Constitutional Court to reach a conclusion on the establishment of the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u134	So, colleagues, the discussion is over, we're moving on to making a decision. I heard a position and a committee. The committee proposes that we support both projects. Indeed, legislation allows this, allowing legislation to support both bills. And now I'm going to ask the hall to identify itself. First I'm going to put 9310 and second I'm going to put (this is Dniprovska) 9310-1 is the Siceslav region. Colleagues, there's one thing I want to say, I'm sure we can't leave without a decision. The decision must be made today. We didn't fail any law on decommunization. Everyone, please be seated, colleagues. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. And I'll put it in sequence: first Dniprovska (this is basic), then Sicheslavska. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please be seated. So let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with article 146 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, I am voting for the adoption of the entire draft Decree (9310) on the inclusion in the agenda of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth draft amendment to article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine and its referral to the Constitutional Court. The first vote is Dniprovska. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[13:36:17]] For-144 Colleagues, and now in accordance with Rule 146 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, put to the vote for adoption in the entire draft Order (9310-1) on the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth call for a bill amending article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Siceslav Region. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, support. We vote for Sicheslav, we vote for Sichslav region. [[13:37:01]] For 240 Decision taken. [[Applause]] So, colleagues, I'd like to report that we've included a day-to-day session for decision 9310-1. Stay put, colleagues. I'm asking you to stay put. I'm asking everyone to be seated. I was asked by two factions, colleagues, to transpose the draft Law on Lawyers and Legal Activities (9055 and 9055-1). Each will be determined by a vote, I'll bet on a transfer. Attention! I'm putting forward a proposal, it's in order of the day, to postpone the bill of the Law on Lawyers (9055 and 9055-1) for consideration. I beg you, colleagues, places to be, places to be. So, who is in favour of transferring for now, for now, the draft Law on Lawyers and Legal Activities (9055 and 9055-1), please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues, please support the transfer. Please vote, please support. Vote! Vote! [[13:38:24]] For-125 So once again, I'm putting back 9055, 9055-1. Please vote in favour. Please support me. We're voting for the transfer now. [[13:38:49]] For 124 It's not a decision, colleagues. And I want to remind you, colleagues, to remind you that I will spell it out correctly for the Constitution. Attention! I want to read it correctly, according to the Constitution, that we voted for the inclusion in the agenda of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call of a bill amending article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the renaming of the Dnipropetrov region and its referral to the Constitutional Court (9310-1), with which I would like to welcome everyone, colleagues! [[Applause]] For Irina Heratchenko's message.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, we have a very good report: the amendment of the Constitution to the Basic Law was not the vote of 334 national MPs but the vote of 335 national MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Our colleague came to the fore, Taras Jurik, that his card didn't work. His voice is "yes." So 335 national deputies supported this important one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u136	Colleagues, pay attention! Stay where you are. Colleagues, we have a high concentration in the hall. I'm asking you, colleagues! Colleagues, pay attention! Now. Attention! Stay where you are! Now we have the next order of the day on issues related to radio frequency resources. I'll run a rating vote in front of him. Danchenko! Danchenko! I'll run the ratings now. So, colleagues, if we don't, we're going to go to the observers from Russia. I am voting on the draft Ukrainian Radio Frequency Act (5051), which is next. Rating vote, please support, please vote, ratings, please vote. Ratings, please vote, colleagues, please support, this is a matter of information. [[13:40:52]] For-164 I want to remind you that we have included in the agenda of the day's session for decision-making now, before lunch, a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws on monitoring the electoral process in Ukraine (No. 9524), and I am now putting it under review. We have 20 minutes, we'll be able to look at it, colleagues. This is a bill that provides for the inadmissibility of observers from the aggressor country to the territory of Ukraine during the elections. First vote: Please support its consideration under the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the cut. [[13:41:41]] For 190 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, we continue to consider the issue that I started a little earlier in Bill 9524. According to the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service, the Russian Federation is preparing an unprecedented intervention in Ukraine’s election, predicting $350 million. Its goal is to stop Ukraine's European integration at any cost. This is also confirmed by a large-scale report submitted by US National Intelligence Director Dan Coates, stating that Russia is taking steps to influence Ukrainian presidential and parliamentary elections that would lead to less anti-Russian parliament. Examples of such influence are cyber attacks on the Central Election Commission. In particular, the result of such an attack in 2014 was the announcement by the Russian media of Dmitri Jaroz as the leader of the presidential race. The International Observers of the Russian Federation, which organized illegal elections in the occupied Crimea and in Donbas, as well as the same cyber attacks, can be another tool for Russia to achieve its objectives. The Supreme Council has already taken care of the strengthening of the cyber-protector of the Central Electoral Commission by adopting in November last year a law providing for additional funding for appropriate measures; the creation of appropriate units protecting our cyberspace. Today, Parliament's task is to secure elections in Ukraine from Russia's possible intervention through its official observers. In view of this, draft Law 9524 has been introduced to Parliament. It proposes to establish that the official observers in the elections in Ukraine cannot be persons who are citizens of a state governed by the Supreme Council of Aggressor State or the occupying State or person.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u138	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u139	as well as persons for whom proposals have been made or initiated by such a State. In view of the above, I ask you to support this legislative initiative, to adopt it as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u140	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to stay put. We'll have a vote on the bill in 10 minutes. So I'm asking at 13:55 everyone to be in the workplace. The co-report now invites the head of the Hopko Committee, Anna Mikolayevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u141	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! I think there's a common position here and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the administration of the President and the President himself. After we have established in the Constitution our course for full membership in the EU and NATO, I think we still have to take care of our security, and we have to do everything we can to minimize the risks and threats of the Russian Federation's involvement in the elections in Ukraine. I would like to remind everyone that it was the Parliament of Ukraine that passed the law by which we recognized Russia as an aggressor state. And so today, when we say that we will limit the presence of Russian observers -- citizens of Russia in the presidential, parliamentary elections -- we not only defend ourselves, we continue to respond to our legislation. And that's why I wanted to say that our position is unchanged: the representatives of the occupying country, which has been fighting Ukraine for the past five years, have no right to come to us from a legal point of view or from a moral point of view. We can't even imagine who these observers might be. They could be diversans, they could be provokers, they could come for the purpose of destabilizing Ukraine. Therefore, in the interests of security, according to our national legislation and our Ministry of Foreign Affairs has already communicated with the OSCE Bureau of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (BDIPL), which has explained the situation. We made it clear to the international community that refusal to register holders of Russian passports, who are representatives of a state recognised at the legislative level in Ukraine by an aggressor State or a state-occupied State, as official observers from foreign states is in line with the provisions of paragraph 8 of the OSCE Copenhagen Document on the need to comply with national laws on international election monitoring, as well as the principle of the sovereignty of the country. Let Russia learn to respect our sovereignty. We're going to restore territorial integrity, and then we're going to have a different conversation. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u142	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Rybchin, please pass it on to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u143	As representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we are very pleased that the Russian Federation has understood that in such an important institution as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, they should do nothing because it is a temple of democracy. And thank God that we today have the opportunity to present clearly from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe as observers of countries that recognize the principles and norms of democracy. And we didn't see any representatives of the Russian Federation there. Therefore, no doubt, the same position of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe should be followed by all other organizations that monitor democracy, transparency and integrity of elections. And so for us this is a principle that must be one that cannot be broken. So our "Fatherland" faction will support that proposal, and we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u144	Thank you. Please, Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich. He's handing it over to Olenia Stonik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u145	Thank you, colleagues. The Self-Help faction also supports the initiative. I don't think it's strange for anyone to ban the representatives of the Russian Federation of the Russian Federation from coming to the territory of Ukraine for the purpose of possible destabilisation or provocation, or manipulation in general by the electoral process. Obviously, today, and it's not just Ukraine that's what our international partners are talking about, that Russia is a key threat to intervention, to external intervention in the electoral process, and not just abroad: in European countries, in the United States -- but we have a direct problem with our electoral process. So, of course, we support that decision. The only thing I'm noting is that the Supreme Council's Legal Department, he stressed that there is a certain need to make further changes to the President's Election Act so that, if such observers do appear, and we, including in the Council of Europe, see the situation where they are deliberately provoked, they are included in the list of observers who may, let's say, have a negative impact on the running of elections in countries, in order to deliberately provoke rejection by the country that is running the elections. Yeah, so that this doesn't happen, so that countries have all the necessary grounds, I suggest you listen to our legal advisers and still take all the necessary changes into account. As far as the international observation institute is concerned, I call on all international organizations to participate as much as possible in monitoring the electoral process in Ukraine. In my own experience, including the head of the European Council's observation mission, I know that it is very often that international observers themselves can help and hinder the electoral process directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u146	30 seconds, please. Ah, you're done, aren't you? Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich gives the floor to Sergey Visocki. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u147	Thank you, sir. Colleagues, the topic of banning the participation of international observers in Ukraine's elections has already become quite controversial, we hear some comments from our international partners, partners with the EU, from other countries on the non-applicability of this bill. I want to say that this bill does not in any way violate the norms and principles of the OSCE as a delegate to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Moreover, we have already had some communication with the representatives of the OSCE, which stated that, according to the rules, each EU country has the right to submit its observers, but these observers and the process of looking after the norms and standards in the elections should be in line with national legislation. What are we doing now? We bring national legislation to reality, banning the provocations that the Russian Federation can make through its observers. Can you imagine a Russian diplomatic machine with Russian observers somewhere in Donbas during the Ukrainian elections? Can we predict the reaction of the Ukrainian people when they see Russians communicating with them in their areas? Can we protect to the end these people from Russia who may be the victims of the provocations of the toll regime that could blow up their car, make an attack to win the Belli's cause in the war against Ukraine in the course of its aggression? No, we have no right to do that. So let's vote yes. Let's understand what reality is, both in our communications, in PARE, in the OSCE, and in other organizations, that we need to prove that standards have to be met. But there are realities: Russia is an aggressor, Russia is fighting Ukraine. And let's face it. It violates the principles of the individual, an international society. Ukraine is not violating anything, Ukraine is a victim of aggression, we must protect ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u148	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko’s Block, Vladimir Ariev is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u149	Ukraine has always welcomed international observers, and this is Ukraine’s obligation to be open and to make sure that the world is convinced of the transparency and democracy of elections in Ukraine. But we cannot allow Ukraine to see those who attacked us to observe the aggressors who annexed Crimea and occupied part of Donbas. There are no precedents in the world for an aggressor country to observe democratic processes in the country against which it has committed aggression. And there is a very specific example in the territory of the former Soviet Union. Never do Armenian observers go to Azerbaijan and Azerbaijanis go to Armenia because there is a conflict between countries. And that's why, in this case, it's absolutely logical and legitimate, and under international law, the position of the Ukrainian Parliament is now going to be. And I hope that the absolute majority, as well as in voting for changes to the Constitution, will now confirm their desire to protect Ukraine from Russian aggression, including through hybrid manifestations, because of what is called observations against them. Because, as they're watching us, we've had the opportunity over the last five years to see for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u150	Thank you, colleagues. It's a closing act. In two minutes, we're going to vote. I ask everyone to come to the hall in two minutes and ask the factions to invite all the national deputies to the hall. Two minutes to vote. Now is the word to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u151	Thank you, Your Honor. In principle, all the previous speakers here expressed a reasonable position. There is no doubt that the Hall will support this vote. But, indeed, in recent times, including representatives of EU member countries and representatives of the OSCE, the OSCE BDIPLE has already expressed its deep concern about the bill that we are currently discussing. That is why we, colleagues, need to unite not only around the vote but also in order to convey the position of the Ukrainian Parliament, why it is the right decision. First. This is what we are expressing deep concern at the OSCE's BDIPPL, which has not contributed a single line to its monitoring of the election in the Russian Federation regarding the falsified vote in the Crimea. Excuse me, there was no observation in the OSCE's BDIPL, and there's no fact in their monitoring that the President's election and the State Department were falsified because they also took place in Crimea. We need to talk about this together. The other one. Let us turn to the world: Would Britain have allowed Russian observers to run for mayor Solsbury? Probably not. So if you'll excuse me, we're going to the world: let's do it without double standards. Third. Almost the entire session hall, all Ukrainian deputies from different factions are included in black lists in the Russian Federation. That's what adorns us, that's a plus for all of us. But excuse me, why Ukrainian deputies cannot go to the Ukrainian navy court in Russian prisons, and we are told that we are obliged to release the deputies of the State. That won't happen! And the fourth and the key. Who should be included in these delegations? Those who voted in the State for bringing troops to Crimea and Donbas? We demand that the State vote immediately in favour of revoking these decisions. I'll see you later. I support all previous speakers that Ukraine awaits large delegations: Parliamentary Assembly, NATO, OSCE, Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly. We're waiting for international observers, but the Russians can't be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m0.u152	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs, get back out of bed, colleagues. It's a very important question, security. Because Russian aggression is not just Russian tanks and fighters, it's also an information war, and it's an intervention in the electoral process. This will no doubt be a key threat this year in the election of both the presidential and parliamentary elections. We have to say no to Russian aggression, we have to support this bill. Please take up jobs. Get out of bed so we can vote. Please take your seats, colleagues. So I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on monitoring the electoral process in Ukraine (number 9524) to propose a committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote. Let's defend the Ukrainian elections. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:58:14]] For 232 Law accepted, colleagues. And I also want to, for the protocol, read out the question, the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in the draft Act amending article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine in respect of the renaming of the Kirovograd region (8380). In accordance with article 147 of the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure, I report that the Supreme Council has reached the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine that the draft Law 8380 is compatible with article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And I welcome everyone with the positive conclusion of the Constitutional Court on the renaming of the Kirovograd region. I ask the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice to consider the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and prepare this matter for consideration at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Under the law, we have no right to consider it sooner than seven days after giving the National Deputies the appropriate conclusion of the Main Committee. I hope that we will be able to take all the steps quickly to take the second, important, step towards renaming the Kirovograd region into the Kropivnitsky region and another step towards the approval of Ukrainian names and decommunization. Once again, colleagues, I welcome today's historic decisions: and making changes to the Constitution to the EU, NATO, and to renaming. The first step is to rename the Dnipropetrov region into the Siecheslav region. Hello, colleagues. Glory to Ukraine! At this morning's plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. At 4: 00 p.m., I invite everyone to the conference room to continue our work. And I'd like everyone to be in the workplace. Thank you.
