ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u1	Good morning! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. So, you guys ready? I'd like you to sign up, please. [[10:04:36]] 341 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague Leonid Petrovich Kozachenko. Welcome to your birthday! You've won and you've won! [[Applause]] Today we have a full day’s schedule. Let me remind you, we have the first block of fuel and energy issues, two of which are Euro-integration. Also after this block, it is suggested that we consider the DBR Law, which was emphasized by both the committee and many factions. And then it's a block of local government laws. And I want to emphasize that today we have a chance to adopt these very important laws that will help us develop both local communities and local self-government. But beyond that, I am convinced that the most important decision today is the rejection of all the regulations that block the signing of the Language Law. I want to remind you, colleagues, that in the last few days there has been an attempt, a raid, because of judicial decisions to block the signing of the law, but the public resonance and position of the people's deputies have led us to reject this scenario. But we have no right to delay an hour. So I'm giving the commission to the committee to review all the regulations immediately so that we can consider them today, and as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I could sign the Law on Language, the Historical Law. I appeal to all members of the committee to meet immediately and consider all the decisions. And I'm sure the Language Act will be signed today. Now, I remind you, we have 30 minutes of factions from MPs and factions. That's why I'm asking you to record the performance. Please enable the writing system. From the "Fatherland" faction, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I think that Parliament is now going through very significant days in its life because the country in the presidential elections has been identified and has given 73 percent for radical changes in Ukraine. It's the key. 73 percent of the people in our country, no more days, want to endure what they have done with the country and with the people for the last five years. I have very short numbers in my hands right now about what happened in five years. This is a 36.5 percent drop in gross domestic product in currency. The decline of all social indicators, from pensions to wages. This is a 12-fold increase in tariffs for heat and gas. This is the destruction of the economy of the country and the middle class. People don't want to put up with this for another minute. And now the big question before Parliament is not just when the date of the inauguration will be. The sooner the better. And our team will vote for all the dates: 19, 20, 21, 28, 1, in order to make the inauguration as soon as possible. But the question is whether the Parliament will be playing a role in the possible changes that people are looking for and will continue to implement lobbyist laws, as prescribed this week; or will become next to the President, who has been elected only to: (a) change the government on the basis of a new coalition and create a change plan that needs to be implemented immediately in the country. If everything stays the same way, you don't have to be offended that the same 73 percent of people want to see parliament disbanded for the first time. Either Parliament becomes part of the change and part of the movement forward, or this Parliament has no right to life. And that's why we're going to draw a conclusion to Parliament. We call for consultations on all factions to create a completely new coalition, a new government and a national commission to investigate corruption at the highest level, starting with Dustyenko and his environment and ending with everyone else. I believe that this Parliament is capable of something else and we will be able to do much for Ukraine and for the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u3	From the Radical Party to the word, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u4	Christ Voscres!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u5	I call on the Ukrainian Parliament and Ukrainian society to common sense. Ukraine is a secular democratic state, where freedom of conscience is and must be of unbreakable value. At the same time, the creation of the Canonic Orthodox Church of Ukraine, headed by the Blessed Metropolitan Epiphanius, and giving it to Tomos about autocephaly is the restoration of historical justice and the undeniable triumph of our nation and our state. By the will of the Lord of Ukraine, millions of her children fought for hundreds of years, suffered, shed blood, but believed, prayed, and did not give up, for "there is truth and power and will in their house," wrote Taras Shevchenko. It is our right to address the Most High in our own language. An independent church is one of the fundamental foundations of the identity of an independent state. Today, though, special challenges have arisen before our church. Pain and anxiety break your heart as you read the news. Ambitions, intrigues, misunderstandings, internal strife pose threats to disunity, the loss of Tomos, and the international discredit of the Ukrainians ’ long - standing dream of their own church. One of the main fighters for this dream of our people – the Metropolitan of Kiev, St. Peter Muggila wrote: "Without consent and mutual love, a constant fire of sorrow and sorrow is born in the house, and no comfort is brought." And the enemy who is at war with us at this time is getting angry and cutting off champagne. Therefore, I urge all faithful Ukrainian affairs and the Ukrainian Church to express their support for the head of the Metropolitan Epiphany, chosen according to the canons of church law and in the presence of the Holy Spirit at the local council. The state in the face of the President, the government, the parliament, the local authorities must recognize the historic importance of the preservation of the Ukrainian Church for the preservation of the Ukrainian state. Conscious and helpful to our Orthodox Church without discriminating against the citizens of another religion. We live in a unique time when the Canon Church of Ukraine came into existence for the first time in our history. But whether we take advantage of historical conditions for the benefit of our people depends on God’s mercy and on each one of us. I also call on socially responsible businesses to find opportunities to help our Church of Christ and to restore our shrines. And may the Lord help us! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u6	Thank you. From the Peter Prashenko Block to the word, the head of the Arthur Gerasimov faction is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u7	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko has a clear and unequivocal position: we are in favour of the inauguration of the newly elected President in a clearly legal term. I would like to point out that Peter Prashenko is ready to hand over power at any time and does not deny any date of inauguration. I would like to remind you that today this is the full responsibility of the Ukrainian Parliament, not of the President of Ukraine. In times of war, Peter Poroshenko did not limit but, rather, strengthened democracy in our country. Today, Ukraine has an unprecedented level of freedom of speech and the free will of citizens, which has been confirmed by fully transparent and honest presidential elections. The president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, continues to do his best to pass on the strength of the country to his successor. In particular, yesterday he held very important meetings with EU and NATO leaders in Brussels to strengthen Ukraine's position on the diplomatic front. It was through his efforts that the civilized world began to see Ukraine as an equal partner and to unite to protect the territorial integrity and independence of our country. In general, Peter Alexiyovich is handing over to the successor an incomparably more developed and powerful state than he himself led in 2014. The leading Western politicians and experts have repeatedly pointed out that more than all previous years of independence have been done in the 5 years of the presidency of Dustenka and, above all, the unique way of development and reinforcement in as short a time as possible has passed the Ukrainian army. Today, armed with domestic defenders are Javelins, assault drones, secure communication equipment, night vision devices, Ukrainian missiles, modern equipment and technology, and high-wage military personnel. Even Western military experts did not believe that an army could be revived from scratch within such a short period of time, but under Peter Prashenko’s command the Ukrainian army became one of the most formidable forces on the continent and the nation’s main pride. About the order of the day. First of all, Parliament must now unblock the Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language, in order to reject the existing decrees on the lifting of the results of this historic vote. Peter Poroshenko made it clear that he was ready to sign the law without delay. I'm going to remind you that it was his presidency that made the Ukrainian language popular in culture, in movies, in books, in music, and in society as a whole. Also, please support the bill initiated by Peter Dustenk on the tax on the capital outlay, and its approval will significantly simplify business conditions and reduce the costs of taxpayers. Of course, our faction will also support all initiatives aimed at strengthening national security and defence that are in order this week. And in the end, the faction of the Party of Peter Poroshenko insists that the Presidential Bill on the settlement of chaplain activity in the Armed Forces of Ukraine be considered. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u8	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u9	The adoption of a bill on the resolution of chaplainism in the Ukrainian Armed Forces will be an important step towards ensuring the implementation of the right to freedom of sight and worship of our soldiers, as enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u10	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction to the word, the head of the Oleg Beresuk faction is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the people in Ukraine have created an incredible phenomenon of change over the past six months: a revolution of choice, an electoral revolution. And in these conditions of incredible change, tectonic shifts there's a lot of chance, there's a lot of chance for healthy forces to build a stronger Ukrainian state for people's well-being. But in these circumstances there are many risks, risks of rematch. And an unpunished evil that wasn't punished in 2014-2015 has a chance today, and we see it in Kharkiv. When the citizens of Kharkiv freed their ODA from separatists, protected the state, established a tent that is a symbol of respect for a soldier and an army that is a symbol of freedom and devotion to Ukrainian statehood, today the authorities of Kharkiv, under cover, undoubtedly the central authority of today, want to destroy this symbol, the unpunished evil returns. What's more, Mayor Kharkiv, who was the VIP agitator of the current president a few weeks ago. Unpunished wickedness is coming back, and we must do so with soundness of mind. One more. Tectonic changes also call us to common sense. The newly elected president received tremendous support from the people, promised to work, to keep his promises. Therefore, the Supreme Council must use common sense. He assigned his inauguration to the 19th -- let's support him, let him keep his promises, because that's a sign of sanity. Should You Fear the Breakup of Parliament? You don't have to fear the dissolution of parliament, you have to keep your promises. And today we do not see in the order of day the fulfillment of promises. If Parliament had fulfilled today's promise to remove the inviolability, if Parliament had fulfilled today's promise of elections to the Supreme Council on a proportionate basis with open lists that allow justice and honesty, I don't think there would have been a discussion about the dissolution of parliament. And one more thing. The economy is building prosperity. There's a boom in the economy, but there's no day-to-day law that liberates our entrepreneurs and the economy from the oligarchy influence. It's at least the Tax Act on the outstretched capital. Why isn't he there? Because power and call protect the interests of the oligarchs, not the interests of common sense. For this there is a nation that today has created an electoral revolution of choice in order to protect its rights and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u12	Thank you. From the Opposition Block to the word Vadim Novinski is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u13	Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues! On April 30, the CTC announced the winner of the presidential election. On May 3, information about the winner of the presidential election was published in the Supreme Council magazine, the Voice of Ukraine, and the government newspaper Government Courier. The presidential election was over, and the parliamentary elections, by the way, had not yet begun. This must finally be understood and acted accordingly. That is, the Supreme Council, based on the will of the electorate, must immediately agree on the date of the inauguration of the newly elected President. There is nothing to delay, considerate colleagues, to set a date and move on, and not to make the situation absurd. We have a parliamentary-presidential republic, and only the interaction of all branches of power and the mutual respect between the newly elected President and Parliament will get us out of the gap that we were led to in previous years. Other important questions. The Opposition Block Group is calling on Parliament to support our decision to abolish the results of the vote in favour of the so-called language law. The language law breaks the country apart, it is unconstitutional, and the Supreme Council Rules were violated when it was adopted. I am confident that the end of the vote will be welcomed by society. Next. Yesterday, on the Conciliation Council, I heard the demand of our faction for immediate entry into the agenda and a law on opposition was passed. It was presented to members of our faction, registered back in 2015. And we don't need to talk about the fact that the observations of the opposition are included in a packet of so-called "parliamentary reform." We have to adopt a separate law that will fully protect any opposition and give it a significant influence on power, and not make superficial changes, as they say, fit. And finally. No challenges facing the country can be eliminated without a major one – without overcoming political corruption. We have a good constitution, we have a lot of smart and useful laws for society, but it's all multiplying by zero political corruption. And the key link to this corruption is the election of a mixed system that allows the authorities to form parliament in a transparent manner and in an absolute and simple way, to collect majority votes during any vote. We need to put an end to this! You can't go to an election under an old electoral law. We still have time to vote on the Electoral Codex in our second reading. Let's do it! And at the end of the day, I want to welcome all the women with the peaceful women's festival. Peace and love for all! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u14	From the People's Front to the word, the leader of the Maksim Burbak faction is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u15	Congratulations, fellows! The inauguration of the new President will take place within the time limit set by the Ukrainian law 30 days from the date of the official announcement of the results of the elections. The Parliamentary Assembly to take an oath by President Zelenski will be held by June 3rd. As for the inauguration on May 19th, our position is as follows: the law determines the holding of a solemn session, the ceremony cannot take place on the day of the national mourning. This day, the inauguration of the new President is unacceptable. Ukraine will honor the memory of victims of political repression. It's a terrible day when we mention millions innocently murdered by the Bolshevik Moscow regime. And what I'm saying is that it's not possible to do anything else that's going on in the cities of Ukraine. And I would also like to address the city head of Kiev, Mr. Klitschka, on the question of the inadmissibility of holding a holiday concert at Mikhail Square on the day of mourning. It's a violation of morals and the law. Ukraine’s new pages of history should start with bright dates. The President has an oath to make. Parliament, coalition and government are working and will continue to enact laws and impose state-wide decisions. There is no doubt that today's convening of the Supreme Council is the most productive in all of Ukraine's history. These are a host of decisions aimed at supporting the defence sector and the EU's lack of transportation and the creation of anti-corruption institutions, and the consolidation of the Constitution's EU and NATO course, and energy reform, and education reform, and a system of measures to protect Ukrainian language and restore national identity, and many more. The People's Front faction directly initiated all these historic decisions, and we are proud of the results. Parliament and government will work to elect a new Supreme Council in the October 27th term elections. The parliamentary term elections will be as democratic as the presidential elections. The Supreme Council expects the newly elected President, Vladimir Greene, to make human resources decisions. The people are looking forward to the new President of the draft legislation to increase the resilience, restore the country's integrity, extend the course to NATO and the EU, develop the economy and anti-corruption initiatives. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u16	Thank you. It's from Rebirth Group. If I'm not mistaken, there was only one group that didn't act. Yes, Pisarenko, who will announce the number of signatures collected for the release of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Mr. Valérie.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to announce our position on the inauguration. It seems to me that Parliament today shows its unwillingness to cooperate with the new President, and those who, thanks to the majority of five years ago, have later become leaders in the state, today make the same mistakes that many officials have made during various authorities in Ukraine. They hold onto their chairs and refuse to allow for an inauguration for the President-elect. We don't think there's any discussion here. Our group is ready to support the date proposed by President-elect Volodymyr Zelenski on May 19th. What I'm saying is that what's going on around this just shows the problems that have arisen today and in the country, namely, the refusal of officials to leave their posts. What arguments do we have? Well, first of all, these are the days of mourning, and, of course, on the day of mourning, you don't have to do the inaugural. I want to show you that in these days of mourning -- there's a poster -- there are festivals in Kiev downtown, concerts with crazy dances, songs, laughter, and that's why nobody cares. I want to remind you that Kiev is run by the head of the BP party, and that's not what they're worried about, but it's the inaugural issue. The other one. For some reason, the committee is going to consider the regulations of the law on language, the laws on electricity, and the inaugural issue is postponed until Wednesday to be held on Thursday. You know, manipulations will lead to bad, you'll see that 73 percent -- that might not be enough. And it seems to me that Parliament must endure the tension that is coming upon it today, and we must vote today on the date of the inauguration. And the last. You don't have to hold on to authority. It seems to me that if you let her go, you'll have a chance to get people's support in the parliamentary elections. If people allow, you will come again; if not, so be it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u18	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like to inform you that there are two motions calling for a recess, but they're willing to replace it with a speech. One of them is from the Opposition Block and the Rebirth Group. And I would like to invite Vladimir Litvin, three minutes. And the next thing you know, from Fatherland and Self-Help, Irina Sisoyenko will be speaking after Mr. Vladimir. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u19	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Personally, I have such an impression, looking at the schedule of our work for this plenary week, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is looking for a job instead of talking about the principles of things, particularly with regard to what Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko said in her speech. We need to find out what remains in the country and determine what the plan of action, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will be and what the executive authority will be. Why do I focus on this? Because on May 10th, in the city of Novogradi Volinski in the Žitomir region, there was a huge public hearing about the indignation of people and the demands of people for the pollution of the rivers of Gomorrah and Svet. I've already shouted this problem here, but I have to tell you, your esteemed colleagues, who continue to throw everything that is alive, is mass-diminished. Even cancers have come to shore -- you can imagine what's going on! The answer that's been coming up lately is, "It's okay, it's within the health standard." If within the health standard, there is a need to accommodate those officials who make the right answers. The people gathered 25,000 signatures requiring the adoption of a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that would oblige the government and the President of Ukraine to declare the area an ecological emergency. A month and a half later, the committee, sadly, did not consider the document under different circumstances. I'm looking at what is now being proposed for inclusion in the agenda. Even the daily routine is suggested that it is not actually registered yet, and this problem that burns people is not going to be considered. There are decisions in this regard regarding city, district, village, and rural councils. I have a question: is anyone going to hear 300,000 people screaming about this? Some 15,000 square miles [5,000 sq km] should be declared an ecological emergency. The simulation of the investigation continues. In fact, nothing has been done for three years. In recent times, even the response notes from the Cabinet of Ministers have not been received. There's a draft decision, it's registered. I am grateful to all the leaders of the factions and the MPs who supported it by signing it. This is the will of the entire Supreme Council. I ask and demand, I address the Head of the Supreme Council: let's put it into the agenda and look at this issue. The motivation that the committee hasn't considered is not going through. According to the Rules, within a month if you have not considered it, the Supreme Council has the right to make its own decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u20	And from the Fatherland and Self-Help faction, Irina Sisoyenko is invited to the floor. And then we move on to the issues of order of the day. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u21	Good morning! I address all parliamentary factions. I understand that the very main topic for discussion in the Ukrainian Parliament today is whether there will be parliamentary elections for the term or not, but, at the same time, I want the people's deputies to hear me on my appeal as well. For a time, we are working to make health changes in Ukraine. And I want to remind you all how the Ukrainian Parliament adopted a very important law in 2017, which was the first step towards the introduction of insurance in Ukraine, is the Law on the Autonomization of Medical Institutions. I would also like to draw your attention to those who may have forgotten that this law has been prepared by the people's deputies -- representatives of all political forces. And then Sandro Kwiatashvili, the minister of health at the time. And Ulyana Suprun, which you so often like to mention at this parliamentary rostrum, had nothing to do with this law. Today, then, there will be a bill of 9075 that will continue the act of the Autonomy Act that we have adopted. Bill 9075 is to continue the benefits for the district, for the city, and for the district hospitals. The bill will allow hospitals to make their own decisions on the issue of wage raising for nurses, doctors. Hospitals themselves will be able to make decisions at their own expense, purchase medical equipment, costs of repairing hospitals, and so on and so forth. So I'm talking to all the political forces. I want to remind you that in 2017, the Parliament voted in favour of this Act on the Autonomization of Medical Institutions, composed of 280 national deputies. Peter Poshenko's Block – 111 votes, People's Front – 49 votes, Opposition Block – 18, Self-Help – 20, Father's Day – 14, Radical Party – 18, Rebirth – 10, People's Will – 14, non-fractional – 26. So I'm asking you, let's continue our very own parliamentary law with you. And I'd like you to put the 9075 bill in order today. We are now being watched by nurses, doctors from district, city, district hospitals, and they are waiting for us to extend the laws that we have successfully begun to do in the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u22	Thank you. There's another statement from Peter Dustenk's Block and the People's Will Group. And they're ready to replace it. And I invite Maria Ionov to the floor. This is really going to be a closing statement, and then we're going to get to the adoption of laws. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u23	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I wanted to start by saying that, in early May, our partners in the European Union are celebrating Europe Day. On May 9, 1950, Robert Schumann, Minister of Foreign Affairs of France, gave a speech that actually started the integration of European countries and later formed the European Union. And for our faction, as for many of you, indeed, and for President Poshenko, European values are the nucleus of both worldview and political. And we should really be proud of the way these values have been established for five years. First, let's say that Ukraine's latest presidential election has demonstrated its commitment to the principles of democracy around the world, and the record number of international observers, almost 3,000 people, have unanimously praised the electoral process. And we have to acknowledge the progress of our democracy. Secondly, both elections and other processes that belong to a democratic country have become the result of a renewed army. And strengthening the security of our country is a principle that the Supreme Commander, along with us, with Parliament, has been able to bring about a balanced life and all five years of his cadence. This has not led us to lose the country, despite the long-standing military aggression of the Russian Federation and despite the brutal hybrid war, and not only against Ukraine, but also against the entire democratic civilised world. And yet it is only the hypocrites who can not see the success of modernizing our army. Thirdly, a number of unprecedented reforms have been launched in Ukraine to establish the rule of law and ensure equality. New anticorruption bodies, including the anticorruption court, were created from scratch. With all due respect for constructive criticism, we should not forget that these are some of the most complex reforms. And in all the countries of the world where they have been implemented and are still being implemented, it still takes quite a lot of time and effort. I would like to point out that, indeed, judicial reform has begun, it needs special attention and continuation. And Ukrainians do not yet feel this equal access to justice and independence and the non-involvement of all judges. And some of the latest court decisions of some judges, they testify and cause surprise, and unfortunately, they're playing straight into the rematch scenario. I wanted to point out in my statement that, over the past five years, Ukraine has become closer to the European Union than ever before, beginning with the visalessness, the Association Agreement and also externally. also an all-inclusive area of free trade. That is why we must recognise this economic progress and move closer to EU trade standards. Because, in cooperation with our international partners, we've achieved macro-financial stability and we've restored economic growth. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u24	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the achievements that I have mentioned: freedom, the protection of human dignity, democracy, the rule of law -- these are indeed the fundamental values that Europe holds. And we also very much hope that our road map, our Euro-integration changes, they should also be irreversible. And they, too, are waiting for our partners to continue implementing the Association Agreement. So I strongly encourage the constructive work of the Supreme Council. Because it's not about the interests of any particular political force, it's about our country. And I realize that the question of inauguration is now very important, but let's also remember that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u26	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're continuing our review of the fuel-energy complex. I would like to remind you that last plenary week we stopped at the consideration of draft Law 8527. And in fact, all we have left is a block of speeches by national MPs and voting. The two other laws proposed by the committee are 5550-d and 7471-d. The first is Euro-integration. He is on the map of our cooperation with the European Union. The next is also important for fulfilling our international obligations. So I hope that we will work effectively, effectively. And I invite him to the rostrum of Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievich to remind him of the substance and content of the law for one minute. And then I'm going to give nine minutes for the national MPs and we're going to go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u27	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to remind you that at the last meeting we had enough time to take a very detailed look at Bill 8527-d, which supports the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It's about creating a central authority of executive power -- energy inspection. The only thing I'd like to add to this is that the date that we have in law is March 31st. But given that this term has passed, I'm proposing September 30th to give the Cabinet the time to implement this bill. Please support the committee's decision in the first reading and in general adopt this proposed bill 8527-d. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u28	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. So 9 minutes is a statement from the national MPs. Please hold a record of who intends to participate in the discussion. Please. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u29	Sobolje, Fatherland. So if you take a statement from our faction when you consider this basic bill, you're going to see the key warnings that we've been making, which we've now, following an actual new expert evaluation, are confirmed by all the correct conclusions of the Fatherland faction. We then explained that the elimination of appropriate control organs in such an oversensitive field as electricity would end tragically. Unfortunately, they didn't. And now they have to make changes to the law on the move, delaying the entry into force of key regulations. But the key isn't even that. What's bothering us? And who will be responsible for this funding? Is it not at the expense of ordinary citizens who will be again charged with electricity? Please tell me, isn't this imposed on the electricity tariffs themselves, the payment of wages to the relevant energy services that will monitor the compliance of Ukraine's legislation? If this bill is adopted for one purpose -- it's another to raise tariffs at the expense of tariffs and the wage of energy efficiency, it's clear that we're not going to vote for it. Clearly, this is one goal: to hit the pockets of ordinary citizens again, taking into account the situation with Rotterdam Plus, Düsseldorf Plus and the other tariffs that are taking place. That's why, unless there's a clear statement from the profile committee that all these innovations are possible on just one condition, namely, failure to raise electricity tariffs, our faction will not vote in favour of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u30	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u31	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Dear colleagues, the 8527th law has already taken into account all the proposals made by the national MPs, all the observations, including the scientific and scientific institute of observation. So I urge all factions to vote in favour of this 8527-d. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u32	Thank you. Wojciecki Victoria Mikhailna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u33	Vojcitsky Victoria, Self-Help Unit. The amended bill 8527-d eliminates the legal gap in functioning and financing. I would like to stress that it is the funding of the electricity regulators, which is very sensitive, especially to Ukrainian consumers. It is worth recalling that the Energy Market Act, adopted in 2017, provided for the creation of a state-run power plant and network inspection and a state energy inspection of the electricity and heat consumption regimes of the new central authority. This is quite the right approach, because these inspections, which perform purely administrative functions today, are still part of the state-owned Ukrenergo enterprise, which is totally unacceptable. The problem is that in two years, unfortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers did not ensure the creation of the law that we adopted, the body. First of all, this testifies to the government's incomplete competence in this area, in energy, and second of all, to the legitimacy of the state energy system. A temporary second question may be removed by the adoption of draft Law 8527-d, provided that the date is adjusted accordingly in the text of the document that Mr. Dombrovski spoke about. At the same time, no one guarantees it, and I stress that the government will follow new terms. Perhaps the next time we continue to enforce the Cabinet of Ministers, we should immediately anticipate a penalty for breaking the deadlines. Thank you. I support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u34	Thank you. And the final performance is the Terres Dmitrovich Cremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u35	Taras Kremen, People's Front. We fully support all that's been laid down in Bill 8527-d. We think it's responding to those challenges that are set before individual organs are eliminated. But we believe that it is essential that such documents be approved as quickly as possible and accepted for the sake of maintaining peace in society, so that tariffs can be transparently formed, and that Ukrainian citizens feel comfortable in today’s conditions. Thank you. We're backing it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u36	Thank you for being so concise. And so there's still two minutes left for Lozov's speech, which passes on the word "Halasjuk." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u37	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. We are absolutely convinced that Parliament must now address the most painful energy issues that concern every Ukrainian. This is primarily the artificial, unwarranted, draconian increase in gas prices and municipal tariffs for the population. It is totally unfair and economically unreasonable to compare the price of Ukrainian gas with the State-owned Crushing Company to the so-called International Monetary Fund import parity. We insist on looking at this position. The second principle is position. We need to provide a strong economic foundation for our sovereign sovereignty today, and energy needs to be a service for industry. So Oleg Láška's team, our co-conspirators, we propose to adopt in Parliament the Free Networking Act is Bill 6671-d. By the way, its authors were national deputies from all factions and groups of parliament, without exception. It contains revolutionary standards that allow for the removal of completely artificial investment barriers and defeats that are created by monopolists today and that block industrial development. If any entrepreneur, if any industrialist, wants to build a factory today, agro-processing, any construction, three skins take it off, make it four times pay for the same thing: for joining the gas, for electricity, for sewerage, for water, and so on. For the first time, bribes are taken for non-exhaustion of technical conditions, and they are still subject to excessive conditions. Then an investor builds a substation, gives a monopoly, and pays a tax to the state. And then he pays off the investment component in the tariff. Who on such terms will invest in the Ukrainian economy and industry in their minds? So the Radical Party team is proposing a way to fix this. Take an American model, take a model that works in Israel when the investment component of the tariff completely compensates for the investments made by the industrialists that builders and entrepreneurs make. The adoption of this law will accelerate Ukraine’s economic growth by at least 1 percent per year of GDP. And that means a solid foundation for economic development, which means involving real investments in the Ukrainian economy, not loans from the International Monetary Fund. This is necessary today in order to ensure the welfare of society not only today but also for the future. Let's take free networking, industrial parks, development banks, the whole industrial reform package. This will be a better economic reality for every Ukrainian citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u38	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. In two minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. I ask all the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform you that there will be a vote in two minutes. Now two minutes is the closing statement of Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievich, and after that vote. Please turn on the microphone, Mr. Alexander. Dombrowski, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to emphasize that by adopting this bill, this is about the energy security of the state, about the stable, reliable work of the electric machine of our nation. And the key criterion is that it's a continuous supply of electricity to every consumer. More than 600 people today are working in a de facto way without pay in a suspended state. And my answer to the very serious question that was raised in this room: we are obliged by the government to create a central executive body by September 30, which provides for funding from the state budget, not at the expense of consumers. Because in today's provisional version, it's at the expense of Ukrenergo's consumers that finance this structure, and we want it to be the central executive body that will be funded by the state budget. I'm asking you to support everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u40	Thank you. It seems to me that the head of the committee gave a very reasonable explanation of the substance of the law and removed all warnings, and we can move on to the decision-making process. Colleagues, take your seats, I'm asking the government to return to the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, we're mobilizing. So I'm putting it to a vote, and I'm putting the committee's first proposal: the draft Law amending Chapter XVII, "The Final and Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Power Market Act (8527-d) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. We vote carefully, we support, colleagues. We vote it's a technical thing, there's an amendment. Vote, support, colleagues. [[10:55:54]] For a hundred and We didn't make it. Show the factions, because they were all supportive. Ah, Block of Petra Dustenka, 59. People's Front - 44, Self-Help - 15, Radical Party - 1. Colleagues, I'll put it back, but there's too few voices. I'm asking you, colleagues, to prepare for the vote, I'm going to make one proposal. If the same situation occurs, the law will be rejected. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for bill 8527-d. Please vote, please support. We're voting for the return. [[10:56:52]] For-154 153. Law 8527 and 8527-d have been rejected. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The next question of the agenda is the draft decision on. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine in the field of nuclear energy use, 5550-d. Let me remind you that this law is on the map of Ukraine’s compliance with our obligations under the Association Agreement with the European Union. So I ask everyone to take a responsible approach to the voting and discussion of this law. So the first vote. Please support the review of the reduced procedure of 5550-d. Please vote in short, we vote, colleagues. Support me. [[10:58:05]] For 139 My colleagues, I'll turn around again. You see the agenda to make it through: and the self-governance block, and the D.B.I., we need to work dynamically. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Voting colleagues, please support. [[10:58:37]] For 135 Let's see the factions. Peter Poshenko Block 58, People's Front 43, Opposition Block 0, Self-help 9, Radical Party 16, Parenthood 0, Will of the People 0. Well, that's a simple logic, my friends. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support a larger number of votes. I'm going to make that offer again. If not, we will consider the full procedure. So, colleagues, please support the review of the reduced procedure of 5550-d. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please support everyone. [[10:59:37]] For 134 All right, you have a wish for the full, we'll go after the full. So we're going to look at Bill 5550-d. And what I want to point out is, whether it's the D.B.I. or the block of local self-government -- at this moment, and at least an hour later, at this moment. I invite you to the words of Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u41	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! I would like to remind you that we have considered this bill actively enough in the House of the Ukrainian Parliament, and we have not supported it in the first reading, and we have sent it back to the first reading. I would like to remind you that the bill provides for amendments to several laws of Ukraine: "On the use of nuclear energy and radiation safety", "On the free use of nuclear energy", "On the protection of human beings from the effects of ionizing radiation", "On the extraction and processing of uranium ores" -- for the purpose of harmonising Ukrainian legislation to the requirements of European standards and establishing, I stress, the only safety standards, such as the protection of the health of persons under professional medical radiation, and the populations against the dangers posed by ionizing radiation, taking into account the requirements of government regulation relating to the treatment of uranium ores. During the drafting of the bill, no proposals were made to the committee for the re-reading of the draft. Under these circumstances, the committee decided at its meeting to refer it to the Supreme Council for its first reading. The main scientific and expert office has agreed on these proposals, including the Ministry of Health, which also supports the bill and recommends it. The committee decided to recommend that it be accepted on the first reading as a basis. I would like to point out that the adoption of the bill will prohibit the introduction into Ukraine of ineligible X-ray diagnostic equipment to which patients are converted, i.e. a kind of radiological second-hand. And I want to assure you that we have had a detailed discussion with all the active participants and interested state institutions that assure us that the implementation of this bill does not provide for the ban on the use of active X-ray devices and the closure of the X-ray offices that work in our hospitals today. In view of the above, please support the committee's recommendation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u42	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. I'm asking you to sign up for a question. Please, Mrs. Jonah, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u43	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that our Association Agreement really provides for commitments in the field of energy and energy security. And as the head of the committee pointed out, I would also like to say that we are just taking into account that directive that has already changed in the European Union. And this directive, it's a comprehensive document that takes into account the latest scientific developments in technological development and the accumulated experience in providing radiation safety. So these are all norms. expands the scope of regulation and details of protection requirements in radiation situations. So we're talking about integration of both workers and patients and the environment. So I would also like to ask that we continue to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u44	Please respond. Mr. Dombrowski, answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u45	Well, I support Mrs. Jonah's position. And thank you for such a position to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u46	Thank you. Please have a question from Mrs. Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u47	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. We've already stressed that we think that two different subjects of regulation are unjustifiably combined in this project, and we talk about this every time this bill is passed again. This is licensing, mining and processing of uranium ore, and it inserts "use of ionizing radiation sources." We don't think it can be combined. And the next bill will once again draw a switch on the issue of licensing. But the law does not specify the norm with which. I have great respect for Mr. Dombrowski, who says that all the other hospitals, and we understand that this is 99 percent of the equipment that needs to be tested in radiation therapy, that they will be able to buy it. It, such a ban as this bill, will reduce access to medical protection for patients to whom it is shown.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u48	Please respond. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u49	I would like to point out that in every faction, every national MP had the opportunity to make his specific proposals for improving this bill on a re-first reading. Sadly, this was not done, so the committee made the decision that it had made. But, at the same time, I would like to say that this is about the health of ordinary Ukrainian citizens who are being forced to use inadequate, outdated, radiological equipment today, which does not allow them to diagnose the disease properly, and to treat, as appropriate, and to ensure a level of health. That's why we're proposing a bill that won't allow such a "second-hand," sorry, to come to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u50	30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u51	That is why we believe that the bill provides absolutely clear standards in line with European directives and will not allow Ukrainian citizens to be crippled by inadequacies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u52	One last question. Ivan Sporish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u53	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. Of course, anyone who does not want to vote in favour of the bill is looking for reasons. But we see that in this bill this is really, there are European values that we should also introduce in the field of energy. I think here, really, the basis of this bill is really to think for a person. Of course, we would like to ask one question to Alexander Grigorovich, because the bill is well prepared, and we should vote for it: Are there so many such violations after the introduction of X-ray devices and so forth to this day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u54	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u55	I can say that until the bill is passed, we have no restrictions on the outdated equipment that is being imported into Ukraine today. If we vote on this bill, then we will have standards and standards that will be much more severe with regard to the quality of medical equipment that directly affects the health of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u56	Thank you, Mr. Dombrowski. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for the faction bill. Please, John Rybak, give me your word. Please, from the spot, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u57	Bill 5550-d is a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws in the field of nuclear energy -- it is now re-reading the first reading in this room. We had a chance with our colleagues to qualityly re-read it, work out all the standards, and really today in the hall adopt a quality positive bill that will work qualitatively in the field of nuclear energy use. But what we really have to say is that this bill is only part of all the legal instruments that we have considered and have already adopted and will be adopted in the walls of this Parliament with a view to harmonising the legislation of Ukraine to European standards and establishing the only basic safety standards, including the protection of the health of those under professional medical treatment, the population against the dangers posed by ionizing radiation. It should also be noted that in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, a draft regulation on the creation of a personal composition of a commission on radiation protection for the population is awaiting adoption. Because it is the commission that shapes both standards and approaches, and principles, to ensure the rights of people to health. I'm asking you to support our colleagues in Bill 5550. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u58	Thank you for your position. Please, Mrs. Vojtsiecki, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u59	Victoria Vojticka, Self-Help Unit. The 5550-d completed project harmonises Ukraine's radiation safety legislation with the relevant EU directive, as my colleagues have previously pointed out. And this is, I also want to remind you, our obligations under the Association Agreement with the European Union. An important position of the project is to adjust the levels of irradiation of the specialized staff. So it's about people who deal with radioactive materials every day. This is a guarantee of the health and life of our professionals. So this is a very important standard, and I insist. The bill obliges the executive authority to engage in a systematic fight against the radiation of radon. This is one of the main causes, by the way, of severe lung disease. This risk must be taken into account by the government. In addition, according to the Ukrainian Bill, it will prohibit, as has already been pointed out, the import and acceptance of dangerous equipment that uses radioactive materials with dangerous levels of radiation. This is about X - ray machines, radiation therapy, intervention radiology, and more. We finally came to realize that medicine and science should be smart and not harm the health of patients, doctors, and scientists. So I urge you to finally come back face to face and support this bill, which will primarily protect their health. Thank you. We support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u60	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, from the faction, who couldn't register? Oleg Lazko, I'd like to invite you to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u61	Dear fellow MPs, I am absolutely sure that most of you have boilers in your house and you have no problem with the lack of hot water, unlike millions of Ukrainian citizens living in large cities who spend weeks without water and hot water. In the morning, children go to school, and parents think about how to buy their children. And they're going to make up a story for the Ukrainians that this is said to be a planned technological survey of the networks, and as a result of this hot water, there's no months, and there's not going to be: in Chernig, in Raven, in Lviv, in Kiev, in Priluki, and in many other cities in our country. And in fact, people who live in cities have become victims of power policies because hot water in Ukrainian cranes is not a mythical survey of networks, but because of a banal reason: from May 1, Naftogaz raised the cost of gas for companies with a 15 percent thermal utility, and today, companies with a thermal utility pay 11 000 300 dollars for a thousand cubes. In addition, the Cabinet of Ministers decreed that since May 1st the level of thermal utility companies with Naftogaza should not be less than 90 percent, and before that it was 78 percent. And then there's this situation: there's no way for citizens to pay for services, there's no way to account for gas with Naftogaz, and Naftogaz shuts off the gas, and as a result, there's no cold water in Ukrainian taps. That's the whole arithmetic of why people sit without hot water. How can we solve this problem? First. The Minister's office is scheduled to cancel its decision to increase to 90 percent the level of thermal power companies with Naftogaz. The other one. Naftogaz has to cancel its decision to increase gas prices for thermal utilities and for citizens. Because they hang their paws on their ears and tell them that the prices for gas for citizens have been reduced by 30 copies, and for companies of heatcommuneers have been raised, and again, just on the other hand, they go into the pockets of Ukrainians, because every Ukrainian has to pay these disproportionate tariffs. We also require anti-corruption agencies to take immediate action to recover 1.5 billion sums of premiums that Naftogazu heads, Naftogazu heads, Kobolev and the company, have paid themselves and taken them off to their relatives by going into the pockets of every Ukrainian. We demand that the government cancel the unjust decisions to increase the price of gas. The inauguration of the newly elected President should take place as soon as possible, not delay this inauguration. And yours first.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u62	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u63	And Greensky's first decree is to issue: according to the Constitution, cancel the government's decision to increase the price of gas. Stop robbing people! And you don't have to say it's not the President's mandate. And the review of the IMF Memorandum, and the annulment of the government's decision, is all the power of the President. Use it, give Greene a chance to control and show who is who.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, have all the factions taken the floor? Please sign up from the National Deputies for a discussion. Six minutes from the National Deputies, there'll be speeches. Please take this into account and give us a timer for this performance block. Please, People's Deputy Krivenko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u65	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Good afternoon, fellow believers, distinguished viewers! Regarding the bill, I think it's a shame that we didn't get the short notice right now, the bill is clear, it needs to be supported. Thank you, Mr. Dombrowski. And hopefully all the faction heads will call their factions and we'll see the appearance at work. And we're going to see what the attitude of the nadaps is about their work. On a subject that is very close to the subject of the bill. I had twice foreseen, on my initiative, 200 million dollars in Ukraine's budget for the acquisition of home hardware for mammography and OCD diagnostics. I will remind everyone that seven and a half thousand Ukrainians, of whom 100 are men, and the main mass is, of course, women, on average, die a year from breast cancer. This is primarily because there is no equipment, no system, and no mandatory screening. Because I'm sorry, mammoths are already catching cancer at stage III-IV, and what stage is almost incurable, the cure is less than 10%, and the cost is more than $15,000. If Ukraine had a screening system, there would have been equipment in every inhabited area in Ukraine, we would have a significant reduction in mortality. And twice because of the lobbyism of foreign manufacturers who import, including obsolete equipment, what you're talking about, and the X-rays in this bill, because of the lobbyism of these manufacturers and governments of those countries that stimulate their producers. Because governments are smart there, they're exporting their products. I don't know how the Groysman government can't run the Export Credit Agency in any way. For two consecutive years the program was destroyed, and for two consecutive years the program did not work, and it was still unforeseeable. And now we see once again that there is no actual system, nothing is done. I realize that the government of Ukraine, which is headed by Mr. Groissman, has no use in making this appeal, because I've done it repeatedly. Like we did on a bunch of other initiatives, I was talking about the Export Import Agency. Here's Mr. Andriy Wadatoursky, with whom we received twice from Mr. Prime Minister the promise that he would allocate 100 million dollars to the deepening of Dniper. So that the cars don't crash our roads in the south, overloaded so that we can run the river as the main source, the transport artery is ours. Nothing is done. So I support the initiative of those national MPs who say we need to change the government urgently. And to do that, we need Parliament to work so that we can resign the Attorney General so that we can change the government. And if we now see attempts to disband Parliament, we will actually see that the newly elected President supports an active government and an acting Attorney General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u66	Thank you. Please make the next statement. People's deputy Rybak will be out of town.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u67	Ivan Rybak, Cherniewec region. Dear colleagues, I am on the subject of the bill. In fact, this bill is the implementation of the Plan for an Association Agreement between Ukraine, both on the one hand, and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their member states on the other. The bill foresees: addressing nuclear and radiation safety issues in reducing the risks of prolonged radion radiation; addressing radiation protection in medical exposure; improving national regulation of mining and processing of uranium ore and licensing of uranium ore processing. Dear colleagues, this is a very simple and clear bill that regulates our legislation's differences with the European Union's directives. Let us not have a serious discussion about this. Because if we've just failed the bill on "The End, Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Power Market Act (8527-d), we're about to fail another 5550-d, there's really nothing to do with this Parliament. We don't have to wait until we're spoiled, we just have to break up, that's all. So let's get together and vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u68	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, performances and factions have been completed by the national deputies. Now we're going to give two minutes to sum up a draft that's already been proposed for the second time for the first reading that's been very carefully worked out on the committee. Please, Mr. Dombrowski's word. And all deputies, please return to the session room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u69	So in two minutes, we're going to make a decision. I ask everyone to come into the hall and ask the factions to invite all the deputies into the hall. Now the closing word of Dombrovsky, and we're going to go to the vote. Please, Alexander Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I would like to say that, of course, it is very important when the Ukrainian Parliament, in accordance with the Association Agreement, is working to harmonise Ukrainian legislation with European directives. This is very important in terms of the standards of life that we want to achieve. But at the same time, I'd like to look at the question that we're currently discussing, from the point of view of a simple citizen, who every day, Ukrainian citizens, come to a simple Ukrainian hospital. And you and I have a lot of debate here about medical reform. And I think it's not a big secret if we look at what medical equipment is today in the countries of the European Union that allows people to get high-quality medical services, and unfortunately, medical equipment is in our community health institutions. I'm not even saying that doctors and nurses who get low wages from the point of view of the use of obsolete radiological equipment work at constant risk. This bill allows us to import quality equipment into Ukraine that will enable us to use and provide high-quality services and, again, to make the diagnosis right for the patients and to treat them accordingly. Because the trends that we have here in terms of cancer in Ukraine, both for adults and for children, you see. So, my friends, let's go back to the ordinary citizen of Ukraine and vote, support this bill, regardless of political speculation, waiting for early elections or parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u71	Thank you. Colleagues, I beg you, there will be a vote now. Colleagues in bed, one minute. Colleagues, I say I'm going to call it public now. Please return to the hall. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. Please inform us that we are moving on to making a decision. So I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on the use of nuclear energy (No. 5550-d) on the basis of a committee proposal. Euro-integration law. I'm asking everyone to support me and I'm asking you to vote. So we vote, we vote on the basis. Please vote. Vote. [[11:25:37]] For-183 Let me show you through the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block - 66, People's Front - 51, Opposition Block - 13, Self-Help - 15, Radical Party - 17, Father's Party - 0, Will of the People - 2, Rebirth Party - 1, non-factional - 18. My colleagues, I have a simple question. Why do you not warn in advance if there are warnings? Why not warn the amendment? We're talking about European integration on air loud and loud, but when it comes to voting, unfortunately, we see these numbers. I'm going to make an offer to come back. I ask the members of the Committee on European Integration to carry out an explanatory work among the deputies of their factions. I'd like another minute, Dombrowski. Is it not necessary? There's no need. Hence, not all were able to vote. I came to the position of deputies that they had not been able to vote. Now I'm asking you to come back. And I'm asking everyone to take their jobs. So everyone's in the hall? The delegates are entering the hall, soon there will be no seats. We'll deliver the chair if there's no seat available. So, colleagues. We can vote, right? Please mobilize. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft law of 5550-d. And I'm asking you to support everyone. That's just the basis. If there are warnings, we can count them. Vote. We support the return. Vote. Vote. Eugene, can I have your back, please? Vote. [[11:28:21]] For 216 I'll do it again. Please. Colleagues, now. Don't leave, Mrs. Oksana. So, my colleagues, I see the national MPs are here. Please be ready now. I'll put it back, then I'll put it on the ground. So I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. Please come in. Valerius, back up. So, colleagues, do we vote? First vote. The proposal to return to the Bill 5550-d. Please vote. I'd like to support you for your return. Careful, every voice. Please vote. Members of the Committee on European Integration came, this is a victory. Vote, please. Please support European integration. [[11:29:39]] For 226 We're back. And now I'm putting the bill 5550-d as the basis. Every voice, every colleague, every voice. Please vote. Please be supportive. We're voting on the basis. We support you, colleagues. Let's back it up. Vote. Vote. Please include the voting system. [[11:30:15.]] For 240 Decision taken. Hello! Colleagues, I'll put the next bill on the ratings vote. So the next draft of Law 7471-d is a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on the safety of nuclear energy use. I'm betting on a rating vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote 7471-d. Vote, rating vote. [[11:30:59]] For a hundred and So a colleague, the chairman of the committee, asks that the bill be transposed. And the next, I ask all attention, is the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "The State, Problems and Prospects for Cultural Heritage in Ukraine." Yesterday the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality on the Conciliation Council raised the issue very sharply. On May 18, we have the Day of All Museums of Ukraine, and it is our obligation to support them and vote on this decree. And I'm announcing the move to draft regulation 8426, and I'm asking you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, for short, it is simple, so you can vote for everyone. [[11:32:05]] For-157. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to report. Please, Mr. Mikolo. It's going to be a very short review, so please don't leave. And then there's going to be a day-to-day session block, and it's going to be an important block after this decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think many of you have received letters from the leaders of the Ukrainian museums. The leaders of more than 200 museums signed these letters from all over Ukraine: from the west, from the east, from the center, to support the recommendations of parliamentary hearings, which this year, the cultural heritage announced by the European Parliament, the year that we all mentioned and thought about how to protect our cultural heritage and heritage, this year, these parliamentary hearings were held. Regrettably, this decree had not been voted on for a very long time. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality, at its meeting on 23 May 2018, reviewed the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The State, Problems and Prospects for the Protection of Cultural Heritage in Ukraine". The proposed parliamentary hearing recommendations take into account and systematized proposals made by Ukrainian national deputies, government authorities, local self - government bodies, scientific institutions, citizens’ associations, experts, representatives of the public during and after parliamentary hearings on April 18, 2018. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine review the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The State, Problems and Perspectives of Cultural Heritage Protection in Ukraine", to adopt it as a basis and as a whole. Dear colleagues, please support this project, support Ukrainian museums, Ukrainian cultural institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u73	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. And let's do more dynamically, in a concise way, we'll make more decisions, please. Teen Leo Theophilovich. You're better than
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! Irina Podujak, Self-Help faction. Indeed, it is very sad that we could not recommend parliamentary hearings about the protection and monument for a long time. Therefore, I very much ask you, your honorary colleagues, all the museums, all the monumental and security personnel, the restorators, the scientists -- all waiting for this ruling to be passed, the results of the parliamentary hearings. I very much ask everyone to unite and support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u75	Thank you very much. From "The Fatherland" Evtuszek Sergey, passed by Oleni Shkrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u76	Good afternoon, colleagues! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, you know, I think that all museums and Ukrainians are waiting not so long for the adoption of the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation, but for the implementation of these recommendations. You know, we're already in 2019, we're in the middle, we're in parliamentary hearings, and this decision was registered, and it was on April 18, 2018. In 2016, other parliamentary recommendations for the reintegration of Crimea were adopted in September, where there was also a huge block for the protection of our cultural heritage. Unfortunately, very little has been done today. I think it's a very painful question for all of us. So far, we don't have a full calculation of our cultural values, an electronic document on the website of the Ministry of Culture, very little done by both the government and the Ministry of Culture. I think it would be right not just to accept these recommendations, which have many important things, but to listen to the Minister of Culture about what has been done since 2016 with the recommendations of other parliamentary hearings, where the system of public-private partnerships, investment in the protection of our cultural heritage should have already been carried out; where the development of the electronic information resource of cultural heritage and cultural values should have been ensured; where the problems would have been solved, if you remember, from Russia's aggression and the annexation of Crimea, we didn't even have access to the information that our cultural values remained there, which was then passed on to the Museum of Ermatage, on behalf of Russia to other museums abroad, then returned to Crimea again, and again to the Museum of Ermatage. And we couldn't get those values back or evaluate them because we didn't have electronic documentation and information in the Ministry of Culture. All this stuff we've been talking about since 2016. Unfortunately, very little has been done. So consider this also a parliamentary request to the Minister of Culture and the Ministry of Culture for what was done with the parliamentary hearing recommendations back in 2016 on the reintegration of Crimea, where the same useful things mentioned here were noted. And for this decree, the Fatherland faction will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u77	Thank you. From "Peter Prashenko's Block," spores Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u78	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, as we can see, all factions will support this decision, and perhaps this determination awaits, well, the spirituality and culture of all Ukraine, which should come and really discuss this issue, which today should really be in the order of the day. So I ask all the factions to unite and vote for these necessary parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u79	Colleagues, two more factions insist on "Front," and the Radical Party, and "The will of the people." But if you could just take one minute, okay, colleagues? One at a time! In sequence, as given. The first is from the Radical Party. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, colleagues, well, what are you trading for? Then Bondar, then Sergey Melniczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u80	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. When the legendary British prime minister Winston Churchill offered to limit spending on education and culture during World War II, he asked, "What are we fighting for?" Today we live at a time when Ukrainian culture must be protected more than ever. Now it's not just about making proposals for parliamentary hearings -- it's about increasing funding for the cultural sector, including museums. And it is very important to give Ukrainian museums more economic freedom so that they can sell free advertising products for books, advertisements, souvenirs, open cafes, as in the Louvre, as in the Museum of D’Ors, as in a civilized world. Then the museum will earn money to complete its foundation, and it will make money to the state by paying taxes. And these are jobs, and at the same time, protecting the culture that our team of the Radical Party insists on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u81	Thank you very much. From the People's Front, one minute Bondar, then you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u82	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. The People's Front will vote in favour of this decree. And I'm like the representative of the 119th constituency, and I want to invite all of June 2nd to the retro festival at Badeny Castle, that's in the Bouquet District. It's a castle that, two years ago, was able to pass on from the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the community, and now there's going to be retro festivals. So I would like to invite you to invest in this retro-festivities for the preservation of not only this castle, but also other architectural monuments, and I invite you to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u83	Colleagues, this is the closing act. We'll have a vote in a minute. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall, and the Secretariat of the Supreme Council I ask you to inform us that in a minute we are moving to the vote. Sergei Melniczuk, one minute. And we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u84	I want to thank the People's Will for the moment. And "The will of the people" will support the parliamentary hearings. But I want to go to the law enforcement agencies and consider my speech as a parliamentary request. Because Ukraine would have been represented on the bienal this year by our project, spent on the government budget of 6 million dollars, and 2.5 million dollars spent more on mecenati. I'm supposed to be flying the "Mira" plane, but that's what's left of my dream. Ukraine is not represented on this bienal by its national heritage, its artists, and its sculptors. What are we talking about? I demand that the law enforcement authorities conduct appropriate investigations and remove the minister for spending state funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u85	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I forcefully ask the people in the beds, Mr. Leonid, to address you personally, to return to the hall, to take up jobs. Colleagues, don't call me names. Mr. Yemen, please. I ask you all to support, colleagues, this is a matter of factions and no politics. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. So you're ready, right? Colleagues, come into the hall. I'm asking you, colleagues, all to take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions. Please. I am voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "The State, Problems and Prospects for Cultural Heritage in Ukraine" (No. 8426) on the proposal of a committee as a basis and as a whole. Please, colleagues, vote. Please be supportive. Every voice is important. I ask everyone to take part carefully in the vote. Vote. We're backing it up. We support you, colleagues. Vote. [[11:43:25]] For 211 They didn't make it again. Please return to the hall. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall. Colleagues, that's not fair. This is about the fate of many museums in Ukraine, and you are simply out of jobs! This is unfair and wrong. Everyone, please return to the hall. Mrs. Ostrikova! So, colleagues, please prepare. Please take up your jobs. Attention! You're ready, aren't you? I propose to return to the vote for the draft Decree 8426. And I'm asking you to support me and I'm asking you to vote. Vote. I'll hold it! Please vote. Vote. We're backing it up. [[11:44:48]] For 223 Three votes. Please return to the hall. I will ask you again, Mrs. Ostrikak, to return to the hall and take part in the vote. Excuse me? [[B in m in s a l in]] It's stuck in the hall. Vote. Colleagues, three votes! Please prepare for the vote. Please, colleagues. I'm putting in draft regulation 8426, first vote in return. Please vote, please support the return. Voting, supporting. Voting, voting. [[11:45:46.]] For 225 We didn't make it. What are you doing? Come back! Mustafa, come back, please. Every voice we count, every voice. So the first vote is to go back to draft regulation 8426. Please vote, please support. We vote carefully, responsibly, and we support the museums. Please vote in favour, vote in favour. Careful, every vote, we vote! [[11:46:42]] For 235 We're back. Now I'm putting draft regulation 8426 on the ground and in general. Please support me, colleagues, we support you. All factions and groups, we support and vote. We vote yes. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:47:09]] For 232 Decisions accepted, colleagues. Now we go to the chapter: inclusion in the agenda of the day session. This is a very large chapter. In the daytime, everyone was able to see what drafts. I'm going to traditionally call their names and numbers, and I'm going to suggest that we put the day session in order. So please prepare for the vote. First: The draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations, Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, concerning the condemnation of violations of the rights of indigenous peoples in the Russian Federation (10125). Please vote in favour of the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:48:26]] For 215 I'll do it again. I'm betting on a motion for a draft Decree 10125 to be included in the agenda for the decision-making session. Everyone, please take part in the vote. Vote. We're backing it up. Please vote. [[11:48:59]] For 224 Ivanchuk, get back in the hall! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. The entire National Deputies Unit is returning to the Hall. So, colleagues, we lacked two votes, and many national deputies came. Please take up your jobs. And I'm voting a motion to draft Decree 10125 to include in the agenda a day session for decision-making. Please vote and please support. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:50:01]] For 224 I'll show you by factions. "Prashenka Block" – 79, "The People's Front" – 61, "The Opposition Block" – 0, "The Self-Help" – 19, "The Radical Party" – 19, "The Father's Party" – 13, "The People's Will" – 4, "The Rebirth Party" – 3. Colleagues, I'm putting it in closing. Final call. I want to remind you, under the Rules, I can put a few votes on the table. I'll bet you a final one. And I'd like everyone to be in the workplace. So I'm voting on draft regulation 10125: inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. [[11:51:03]] For 226 Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for military service and military service) (10181). Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:51:45]] For 215 I'll do it again. So 10181 is a day-to-day session for decision-making. Safe, important law. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Vote. [[11:52:12]] For 210 Next. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the implementation of transparency and publicity principles in the area of the formation and implementation of State military and industrial policy (10248). Please vote and support the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:52:56]] For-162 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the resolution of chaplain activities in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations, in accordance with Ukraine’s laws, (10279). Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Colleagues, we support the military chaplains. I'd like everyone to vote. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Vote. We're backing it up. Vote. This is the support of the military chaplains. Please be supportive. [[11:53:47]] For 210 I'll do it again. I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft law on the regulation of chaplain activity in the Armed Forces. Colleagues, please support and vote. We're going to support the Ukrainian chaplains in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, who are on top. Vote please! Please back up! Vote! We'll back you up, fellows! [[11:54:32]] For 211 Next. Draft Law on the Basic Principles of State Agrarian Policy and State Policy for Rural Development (9162) Inclusion in the Order of the Day Session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Integrating a day session for decision-making. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:55:10]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to extend the simplified procedure for the reorganization of public and municipal health institutions. This is the bill that Irina Sisoyenko spoke with in the morning and urged everyone to support it (9075). Please support the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:55:56]] For-170. The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of individual issues in the area of housing and utility services (10228). Please support the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Please vote. Can I have your back, please? [[11:56:34]] For 186 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Act amending the Housing Code and other legislation of Ukraine to support owners (users) of housing and to protect their rights (10237 and 10237-1). Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:57:12]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Broadcasting to improve the competition procedure (10268). Please support the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:57:50]] For-166 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the National Budget for Ukraine 2019 on Improving the Status of Roads of the Odessa Region (10226). Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. [[11:58:25]] For-162 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Act amending article 87 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on the financing of individual programs and health facilities (10231). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda for the decision-making session. Vote. [[11:59:01]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Electricity Market Act to provide electricity to protected consumers in Donetsk and Lugansk regions (10227, 10227-1). Please support the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Please vote, please support. [[11:59:36]] For-162 The decision is not taken. And a final one. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on demonopolization and the development of space activities (10096). Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[12:00:07]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Okay, I'll do it again. So the draft of Law 10096 is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. And then I'm going to ask again about the chaplains. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And I'm going to talk again about chaplain activity. Now 10096 is a day-to-day session for decision-making. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:00:56]] For-188. 188. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, and I don't think everyone has been able to vote on chaplain activities. Once again, I am proposing a 10279 - draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s laws regarding the regulation of chaplain activities in the Ukrainian Armed Forces to include in the agenda of the day’s session for decision-making. I'm sure we should support our chaplains on the front and support it. So I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision 10279. Please vote, please support, the inclusion in the agenda of the chaplain session. Please vote, please support. Vote. Vote. [[12:01:52]] For-191 Let's see the factions. The factions, please. Block of Peter Poshenko – 72, National Front – 54, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 17, Radical Party – 17, Fatherland – 10, Will of the People – 2, Rebirth Party – 1. So we're through. So, colleagues, now I'm calling a 30-minute recess. At 12:30, I ask everyone to return to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u86	So, colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work. Everyone, please come into the hall. So, colleagues, I'd like to inform you that in the break, at 12 o'clock, the regulatory committee has taken a decision on all the decisions that have been made regarding the rejection of the Language Act. This means that we can move on to the consideration of those decrees. They're technically coming to the apparatus now. In order for the apparatus to multiply and distribute, it will take a minute 10. And so I suggest we start consideration of all of the decisions that are made about deviation. And once the printed decrees have arrived that stop the decision to sign the Language Law today, we will immediately move on to these decisions. We have a draft ruling that I'm going to put to the vote. I want to remind you that these rulings are put to a vote without the inclusion of the agenda, and the Chief of the Supreme Council can propose at any stage. And that's why I'm now announcing that we're going to consider all of the regulations that apply to the rejection of the bill. While printing and drafting decisions that stop the language law, I propose to go to the draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes for the Establishment of Responsibility for Violations of Legislation in the Field of Conformity of Production, Production, Implementation, Production, Work and Services in the Military Area (No. 1793). And while we're looking at this decision, I hope the apparatus will prepare the following decisions. And I'll also remind them that they're looking at a reduced procedure, these regulations. We start with the first - 1793. And I invite you to report to the representative, the first deputy to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the Rules of the Pinzenic of Pavel Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u87	Colleagues, I would also like to give the floor to the first author of the initiative, the National Deputy Winniku, but I don't see him at the moment, maybe later. And the committee considered the draft decree on February 3, 2016. This is a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine on the establishment of responsibility for violations of legislation in the field of conformity, manufacture, manufacture, implementation, acquisition of goods, works and services in the military sphere (registration number 1793), taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. This draft decision was passed by national deputy Ivan Vinnik for registration number 1793-P on 27 January 2016, and on 27 January 2016 he registered a corresponding application with the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As a result of the consideration of this draft regulation, the Committee made a number of observations in the Committee's conclusions, including a stenogram of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of 26 January 2016, and noted that during the consideration of the proposals made by the President-returned law, comments by the national deputies and, in particular, by the national deputy author of the draft order, John Winnick, regarding the violation of the procedure provided for in the 134th and 135th Rules, had not been received. Moreover, according to information posted on the official website of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the People's MP Vinnik was present during the consideration of the bill. In accordance with part eight of article 48 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it decide whether to adopt or reject the draft decree by voting. Thank you for your attention. Please express your support or support for the draft decision and determine how to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u88	Thank you. Please record: two for, two for, please. Self-help, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u89	Thank you very much. First of all, I want to thank the Speaker of Parliament because you have fulfilled your promise. A few weeks ago, I was raising the question from this rostrum that a particular person, Mr. Winnick, was blocking the increase in criminal responsibility for the inadequacy of the supply of military goods, specifically military goods. And that, in fact, if this law existed, there were a lot of corruption scandals in Ucroborprom, and, in particular, the last corruption scandal that happened with the Sweezers, you're all very well, I'm sure, you remember him, the real responsibility of these people today would be three times higher than the Criminal Code. But I'm very curious, colleagues, I'm paying attention, Mr. Winnick is not in the room right now when he's considering his decision to block that responsibility for three years. Well, I'd like to ask him, it might be rhetorical right now, but hopefully he'll hear. Mr. Winnick, I wonder where the real thing is. When do you block the increase in criminal responsibility for the indeterminate supply of military products or when you are the head of a temporary investigation commission that is supposed to investigate all these crimes and the avoidance of military defence? Where are you real? When you're not allowing criminals to be held accountable in military actual times or when you're sitting on a temporary commission of inquiry, are you pretending to be looking for justice? So, colleagues, I very much ask you not to support this decision, at last, to unlock the issue of proper criminal responsibility, I think, as one of the most serious crimes, especially when the country is at war, and to show that this Parliament is really ready to bring crime to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u90	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block to the word is asked by Palamarczuk, who raised this question yesterday at the Conciliation Council, and I promised to put it to discussion today, after decree 1793. Please, Mr. Mikola Palamarczuk. You're not speaking, are you? Okay. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, you emphasized that I had this decision to put to the vote. I put her up. Is there a need to speak? None. Okay, okay. As promised, it's set. Colleagues — Are They Desirable of Other factions? None. We can move on to making a decision. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes on the establishment of responsibility for violations of legislation in the field of conformity, manufacture, production, implementation, acquisition of goods, jobs and services in the military sphere, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, 1793-P. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Vote. [[12:48:28]] For-12. The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected, allowing me to sign the law. And, dear colleagues, we can go over the 5670-d regulations, the four of them: the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 25 April 2019 on the adoption of the entire draft Ukrainian Law "On Ensuring the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language", by a colleague. Four decrees. And I will give the floor first to all the authors of the decree. Then I'll give the head of the regulatory committee. Then there will be a discussion: two in, two in, and two in, against. And then there will be a vote that will open the way for the signing of the Act on the Functioning of Ukrainian Language as a State Language. So I'm going to go over four draft regulations, 5670-d, P1, P2, P3, respectively. And I'm going to invite you to the speech in the order in which these decrees were registered. First, I give the floor to Novinski Vadim Vladislavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! Nearly half of the citizens speak two languages — Ukrainian and Russian, or mostly Russian. The language bill likens them to enemies. If this is not a division of society and not a division of class one and two, what is it? If it is Europe, it is the 13th century of the Inquisition. Andrew Parubius passed a language law to the vote by breaking the Rules. There are also numerous “buttoning” facts that the Constitutional Court repealed a previous language law a year ago. Many national deputies whose ballots voted in favour were not in the hall. For example, Deputy Davidenko from BPT and Deputy Tarasyuk from BUT. The Ukrainian people did not delegate the right to force the law into deception. If there were no votes in the coalition, it had to be removed. We will never return Donbas and Crimea by discriminating people by language. This will result in a further loss of confidence in the state. People's deputies are requested to exercise political balance and support the decision of the Opposition Block to abolish the results of the vote for the language bill. Mr. Parubai, I'm asking you to put on a video that confirms my words about the facts of "buttoning."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u92	Thank you. Please continue the performance. You can't technically turn on your video right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u93	Sadly, this is not possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u94	Thank you. I invite you to address the next author of the ruling of the Ukrainian national deputy Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't yell, there won't be any money. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u95	Thank you, Your Honor. Of course, my position is that this law cannot be signed and signed by the President, although I understand the realities. A formal last example: By the time we had considered the amendments, the final text of the law had already been distributed in the hall. Well, I think that's the question that's going to be dealt with in the Constitutional Court, including. But the 10th, 22nd, 48th, article of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is gravely violated, to our firm understanding of the norms that ensure the use of Russian and other languages, will also become the subject of the Constitutional Court if this law is signed and it enters into force. Today, Ukraine is in pain for one thing: that we sew the country. It is this law that, unfortunately, will not serve the unification of our society, but will serve as another reason for doubt and possible opposition to mentality. This is what puzzles us about the possibility of entering into force of this law. I want to believe that this law will be changed in the next or perhaps even abolished in the Constitutional Court. Regrettably, the recommendations of the strategic Europartners were not heard and asked: Step away from this law, put it aside and resolve it in the context of the possibility of using all languages that are present and used in Ukraine. That's why it was my decision and my colleagues to make that decision. I'm begging you for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u96	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u97	Today, of course, we are creating conditions that can cause tension with our neighbors. I want to believe that the Constitution will eventually dominate when decisions are made in this room. And this law is unfortunately unconstitutional and it violates the rights of our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u98	Thank you. The next order is 5670-d-P2 (by Dudenkov Alexander Valerijovich). Yes, yes, in the order of Dudenkov, and then Mr. Mikhailo. And I would like to invite you to the address of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dobrenkov Aleksandra Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u99	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 11 of the Constitution, the State provides for the consolidation and development of the Ukrainian nation, its culture and tradition, but instead it ensures the protection and development of ethnic, cultural, religious and linguistic identity of national minorities. In accordance with article 10 of the Constitution, the State provides free development, use, and protection of Russian and minority languages. The Ukrainian Act on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State, adopted and voted on 25 April of this year, is in direct contradiction with the provisions of the above-mentioned legal rules, and is contrary to the substance of articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution of Ukraine. As far as procedure is concerned. As a subject of the law of the legislative initiative, I registered a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision to adopt the law on second reading and in general because of gross violation of the Rules. What is this violation? On April 25th, I think I convened a meeting on behalf of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But instead, in accordance with article 122 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for the consideration and adoption of a second-reading bill, and in general the Supreme Council of Ukraine may authorize the Main Committee to hold meetings to eliminate contradictions and editorial irregularities. But the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are different things. Because in accordance with article 46 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the committee's decisions are not only draft regulations but also other organizational issues and other matters. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is in accordance. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u100	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u101	The Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 84 of the Constitution of Ukraine, is a collegiate body in accordance with article 91 of the Constitution of Ukraine. All decisions shall be drawn up by a vote. I would like to point out under the transcript that on April 25th of this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not make a decision, did not give a mandate to a committee of profile to prepare editorial details. And as for the video, we're going to demonstrate it in the Constitutional Court when we consider our application for unconstitutional recognition of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u102	Thank you. And the final report by decree 5670-d-P3 is the Ukrainian National MP Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u103	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! I went to the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and took with me the Constitution of Ukraine to remind the people of Ukraine that it was a basic document that we, when we made an oath to the Ukrainian national deputy, committed ourselves to uphold. This law was passed in violation of at least 12 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. I take, for example, article 10: "The application of languages in Ukraine is guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine and is governed by law." The Constitution is the law of direct action, and here in imperative form it is written: "the law," not "the law," but "the law." I mean, when this Act "On the Functioning of Ukrainian Language as a State Language" was passed, the authors of this bill and the so-called "coalition" they hid in this law the main essence of this law. It's not a law on the development of the Ukrainian language, and you're being lied to, you're being lied to, you're being told by the citizens of Ukraine. It is a law banning Russian, Romanian, Bulgarian, Hungarian, Crimean Tatar, and other languages of national minorities. Ukraine, today ratified by Ukraine, is a convention, a European convention of regional languages and languages of national minorities. This is already the body of our legislation that violates this law. The second question. Ladies and gentlemen, why are you so inconsequential? How can such a complex law be brought before the Supreme Council of Ukraine without the conclusion of the Venice Commission for Democracy because of law? And we ask the President of Ukraine not to sign this law until the Venice Commission has reached its conclusion. We have a simple requirement.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u104	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u105	We have a simple requirement. Let independent European institutions clearly and clearly signal the citizens of Ukraine that this law in a civilized country does not have the right to function, that this law is a language neo-Naziism, that this law should be repealed and we will get it through the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u106	The reports are complete. I now invite you to the floor of the First Vice-President of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, our committee on May 14th reviewed the statements made by the National Deputies and the draft decrees of the Supreme Council on the annulment of Parliament's decision of April 25, 19 on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft Ukrainian Act on the provision of the function of Ukrainian as a national language (registration number 5670-d). These drafts were issued by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Novinski Vadim Vladislavovich, Vilkul Alexander Yuriovich (this is registration number 5670-d-P), as well as the ruling made by Bojk Jurij Anatoliovich, Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Papiev Mikolajovich and other national deputies, only 6 signatures, 5670-d-P1, and 5670-d-P2 by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dunaev, Skorko and Papiev. Dear colleagues, the position of the authors of the decision you have just had a chance to hear. Basically, as you've heard, it draws attention to the content of the Act on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language. Attention is also paid to the personal voting procedure once again. All such questions have already been the subject of our committee’s conclusion on more than one occasion and have been presented in the conclusions of these draft regulations. Your conclusions can be seen in your materials. Please determine how to vote on the support or non-support of the above-mentioned draft regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u108	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. From the Opposition Block, Šurma Igor Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u109	Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block. All those who observe the sessions of the Supreme Council, by the work of the deputies, can clearly say that I belong to those Ukrainian-speaking deputies who believe that the language issue is resolved by the 10th article of the Constitution. It clearly states what the national language is and what rights are given to the Nazis and other languages. But I'm talking to someone else. I am addressing you, MPs, but you are all true lovers. I'm going to the Presidium. We are today under the vault of the Supreme Council building, this is the temple, and the Constitution that is there is the Bible. I'm addressing you, Andry Volodymyrovich, well, you're not a patriarch, but a man who works here. How are you going to get your hand up to sign this bill if you're not going to be able to show video-tagged buttoning? You had 280 votes. Look, it's such a complicated question and it's so important that it should be taken cleanly, without abuse, without falsifications, so that when you go to European institutions, you can say, "We have every MP knowingly done it." What will the Ukrainian Parliament look like when they present videos of one, two, and three buttons? Then you're surprised if the Constitutional Court makes a decision and you make animosity that someone is against the Ukrainian language. You yourself make it possible for such an important subject to be legally discussed by the Constitutional Court. Shame on the Europeans! Well, it's not the European Choice coalition's work, it's just, you know, it's not an honor for you to fake it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u110	I want to assure you, my hand will not shake. Moreover, I will have the honour of signing the Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language. From Self-Help, Roman Semenich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u111	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, it's a shame that the trials are stalling. On the other hand, you and I are witnessing the spread of various fairy tales on the subject of this law. I'd like to dispel these, most common myths. Myth number one. Language inspectors will catch passersby on the streets, force them to speak Ukrainian, fine them for failure, and so forth. I want to say again to the whole country that there are no language inspectors in the form of a second-reading law. It's a clean fake that spreads through the pro-Russian wasteland. The other one. We're going to have to pass a language exam or they won't take the job. Indeed, if there is a management position in the plans, there, the president, the director of the BSS, the director of the school or the civil servant, will be required to pass an examination and obtain a certificate of state language. But if you are already in office, there is no need for additional examinations. Moreover, neither the certificate nor the certificate will be required of workers in the workplace. Myth number three. Children will not be able to learn other languages in schools. It's nothing but another fake that we often hear. You can study at school, as you do today, any language offered by the teaching institution, for the benefit of your parents. Neither will the language of national minorities be affected. Notice, the educational article in the law is completely copied from the Education Act, and there are no problems here. Myth four. Only the English language can be used for emergency services. In fact, a person who does not speak Ukrainian may be approached by an emergency police force, which is acceptable and understood by both sides, I emphasize, for both sides. Therefore, dear fellow believers, let us consider these decisions immediately. Let's scroll this page. We allow today's consideration of the Supreme Council and the President of the country to adopt this law, and we move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u112	Thank you. From the People's Front, Princely Nikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, two memorable and sad dates this week. May 18 is the day of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people and May 19 is the day of the victims of political repression. On that day, I, like many of my colleagues in this room, will mention the victims of Crimean Tatars together. The victims of the genocide of the Ukrainians, the genocide against the Ukrainian language, the linguocide, will be mentioned in Bullock and elsewhere in memory. Because the destruction of the Ukrainians was primarily because they were carriers of their culture and language. So it is symbolic to reject these rulings now, which are totally false, such that they misrepresent the voting procedure. In particular, a decree stated that the decision of the Supreme Council was necessary to hold a committee. Instead, the committee sat on a break announced by the Chief of the Supreme Council. We put to the vote the amendments proposed by the committee, after which the room supported this. As far as breaking the Rules is concerned, the Rules do not provide for the registration of exactly the alternative regulations that our opponents have registered here. They were violating the Rules. Therefore, by rejecting any allegations, we ask, and we request the Head of the Supreme Council not to support these rulings today to sign this bill, to submit it to the President for signature. And once again, to prove that we live in a strong, democratic Ukraine and no political change or aggression will divert us from the course of support for Ukrainian language, Ukrainian culture and Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u114	Thank you. And thank you, Mr. Mikolo, for all the work you've done to make this law a law, a bill. Thank you. From the "Peter Dust Block" spores Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u115	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Please pass the word to Oleg Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u116	Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u117	Christ Voscres! The blessed Ukrainian land, rich in tradition, history, and Christian faith, has experienced more than one ruin and war, thanks to Russia, so a neighbor who called himself a brother. So, apparently, 80 million Ukrainians who were and lived in Ukraine, Cuba, were persecuted. This gift came from our Russian brother, our neighbor. So obviously, as never before, we need to unite now for the formation of Ukrainian statehood, its development and its strength, and language and faith is the pillar that cements us as a nation with an army that protects it. That's why I'm talking to fellow MPs who allegedly advocate the priority of the Russian language: Ukraine, which has its own language, its native language, must also have a national Ukrainian language. And you, learn the language of the country where you are now, the people to whom you serve and who have chosen you. Learn, because otherwise, you know, you want to drag us to Siberia, not you, because you have property in England, just like the Kremlin elite in England, and we have saltwater and Siberia. The more a person knows language, the more he is human. And so, honourable Members, you need to determine whether you are the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, whether you are servants of the Russian Duma. If you don't like the status of the Ukrainian state language in Ukraine, on our land, it's very simple: the suitcase station-Russia! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u118	And, colleagues, now from two factions: The Radical Party and the Motherland, one minute at a time. Andrey Lozov, and then Sergey Eutusek, and we move on to making a decision. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u119	Andrew Lozový, Oleg Lazka Radical Party. Our faction alone voted 100 percent for the State Language Protection Act. This law is the most tolerant in the language of national minorities. See what laws are appropriate in Poland, Germany, in the Russian Federation that you are listening to, in Italy, in France. There is no state where such huge rights and so great respect for the languages of national minorities are legally available. But only Moscow banned English 64 times. The Wallowian Circular, Patriarch Yoakim, Peter I, Alexander II, Catherine II, Nicholas II, then Lenin, Stalin, Pushev -- all of these bloodbaths who destroyed Ukraine, who hated everything Ukrainian, how today their successors in the Kremlin hate Ukraine, and they want us to take the right to their language, to their church, to their national identity. So we vote against it, and we urge all conscious deputies to do the same. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u120	Thank you. And a closing statement from the Fatherland faction. Sergey Eutuszek, one minute, turn on the microphone. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u121	Sergey Evtushok, Plainness of the Fatherland. I want to say right away that both in the first reading and in the second reading, "Paternal Motherhood" was fully supported by the bill. I would like to say right away, despite the fierce criticism, because there was a process when Parliament was considering amendments, we were all in the right way, according to the Ukrainian Rules Act, we followed procedures. And that makes it possible today to sign the law by the Head of the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine. I want to tell everyone right now that we can go to the Nazi Language Regulation Act so that there is no criticism of Russian or other language. It is the laws on the languages of the Nazis that will regulate their ability to communicate in Russian or other languages. I also want to say that this is our weapon, because Putin thinks that where Russian sounds, he needs to protect Russia's interests right now, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u122	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u123	By doing the same thing with the expansion of our country. Therefore, we now call for an immediate vote to be put to the vote, to fail these rulings and to proceed to the signature and transmission of the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u124	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm going to put every step of the way that comes into the apparatus. I want to remind you who, in order for the Language Law to be signed, should vote against (the red button), and I will call each decree separately. I'm voting on the first decree of 5670-d-P of the authorship of Novinski. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. [[13:15:29]] For-34 The decree is rejected. The next was 5670-d-P1 by Nestor Schuffric. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. [[13:16:01]] For-34 The decree is rejected. Next is the project Decision 5670-d-P2 by Dobrenkova Alexandra Valeriyovich. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[13:16:29]] For-33 135 – against. The decree is rejected. And the final verdict is 5670-d-P3 by Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich. Whoever supports this decision, please vote [[13:16:59]] For-33 131 – against. The decree is rejected. Hence, colleagues who have been rejected are all decrees that pave the way for the signing of the Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u125	Thank you, fellows of honor! Please allow me to give the floor to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andry Volodymyrovich Paruba, who will now sum up our great joint work on the bill on the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I want to say that from the very beginning of the registration of this bill, it seemed that all the forces of hell had gathered to prevent its acceptance. But they faced the great will of the Ukrainian people. And they saw the professional, organized work of the entire team that worked on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I want to thank now from this rostrum all those who have been involved in the drafting of this law, all the co-authors of this law, all those who have raised this issue on the advisory boards. Surely, the head of the committee and all members of the committee, Mr. Mikolo, thank you for your Titanic work. It was a system of the Ukrainian team's work that showed a high quality and professional performance. I want to thank all the public activists who are looking at us now and who have been calling on us to put this law to a vote on Facebook at night. They can hear us now, they can hear me. And thank you for your support for being near the Supreme Council of Ukraine when we passed this law. Thank them! [[Applause]] I mean, colleagues, and to warn all those who think today that the political situation has changed, that they are already planning a rematch, threatening us with the courts, threatening to break this law. Listen to me carefully to all those who think it will be possible. As soon as you touch and try to do a revision of either the Language Act or the Decommunation Act or the Church issue, you will feel all the anger of the Ukrainian people and the mighty will of the Ukrainian people. And I'm telling you this, not as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but as a citizen of Ukraine, Parubia Andrew. We will not allow any revision of all the acquisitions made by the Ukrainian Parliament on the eighth call. And today's historic day, today and now I'm going to sign the Act on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language, and the next hour will sign it, or the days, President of Ukraine, will be published in the Voice of Ukraine and become the law. So I immediately sign the Ukrainian Act on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language. [[Applause]] Glory to Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine! Hello, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u127	Thank you, Mr. Head. And we will continue our work now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u128	I'm transferring the apparatus immediately to the President of Ukraine for signature, please. So, colleagues, now we're going to the final stage of the decisions that need to be considered. These are decisions 8449-d, 8449-d-P1 and 8449-d-P2 on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 25 April 2019 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Law on amending certain Ukrainian laws on the provision of competitive conditions for the production of electricity from alternative sources of energy." And in the same sequence, first I invite the authors of the decree, their three authors. The first is Vojcitsky Victoria Mikhailovna, the second is Kornac Arkady Alexiyovich. And Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich. Then the committee report, then the discussion and then the vote. In short, we're moving on to a draft ruling. And I invite you to the address of Ukrainian National Deputy Vojcitsky Victoria Mikhaylovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, why I urge you to call off the vote for Bill 8449-d. In fact, there are several reasons, the first, and the main, is that unfortunately, in the adopted text of the bill, the standard is fixed, just in direction 24, which deprives small solar power plants, namely households, small and medium - size businesses, of installing solar power stations in their own backyards, on their own land. This is because large objects that build our oligarchs, including, for example, DTEK, can use thousands of hectares and install solar panels, and there will be no problems for them. Is that right, is that fair? Of course not. So I insist that we should not support the bill, return to its consideration, and allow people to build solar power stations in their backyard. This is why the Ukrainian consumer will be able to provide electricity, including the use of his own land. This is number one. Number two questions. When you and I were looking at this bill, one of the rights I submitted was for the introduction of auctions first since January 1, 2019, then April 1. But what this Supreme Council did: it moved on to the following year. Who would benefit from that? Once again, large players, oligarchs, like Ahmetov and DTEK, who will actually use all the power that we have today to build such stations. And that's totally unacceptable, and then we can't build anything with you. So once again, I urge you to vote very carefully right now and to send this bill for further work, we have to go back face to face and give them a chance to implement.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u130	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u131	And allowing the Ukrainian master to build solar power stations on his own land, not to create mega-comfort -- 25 percent of the euro's annual solar power plants -- as it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we continue to consider alternative decisions to this decision. And I now invite you to my word. I now invite you to the words of Arcady Kornatsky, author of Decree 8449-d-P1. Please, Mr. Kornatsky. Yes, Mr. Kornatsky. Let's move on then. I invite the author of the alternative ruling (registration number 8449-d-P2) of the national deputy Yuri Lewchenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u133	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, by regulations, as this bill was passed, it is terrible, and why it is absolutely illegal, why it violates the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First of all, there was a return to the amendments that were broken by conscious people's deputies. Very wrong amendments, they had a return, which is illegal, and they were put back in the bill. Secondly, there was a single vote in favour of several amendments, which is a direct violation of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thirdly, and most importantly, this bill was adopted by total buttoning, before its application. I added to my ruling a list of MPs who were proved by journalists who were not in the session hall: someone was on leave, someone was sick, someone else had questions. It's all fixed in the video. These people weren't there, they were dozens of people's deputies. I call on all journalists to publish this list as much as possible so that these deputies will answer to whom they have handed their cards. So this is about the Rules. Now the question is, why did this bill get pushed into such an anti-regulatory, illegal way? Why? And because this bill allows Mr. Rinato Leonidovich Ahmetov, one of the oligarchs who privatized this session hall, to hold a totally corrupt, absurd green tariff, which is several times larger than in Germany, which is several times larger than in other Western European countries, to keep it until 2030, thereby washing billions out of Ukrainian consumers' pockets and, by the way, from the state budget, through subsidies, in fact, through such insane tariffs. So that's why this is how this completely criminal bill was pushed out, so criminally. So any normal MP should now vote in favour of renouncing that vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I invite you now, a word for the co-report, head. First deputy chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of Paul Pinzenic. Mr. Paul Pinzenik, distinguished Mr. Paul Pinzenik, please summarize the Committee's decision on the three draft decisions on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 25 April 2019 (registration number 8449-d-P, d-P1 and d-P2).
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u135	Thank you. I'll sum it up. We have considered all three statements made by the national MPs and accordingly all three draft decrees made by them. They were introduced by Ukrainian national deputies: Vojcitsky Victoria Mikhailna, Kornac Arkady Alexiyovich, Levchenk Yuri Volodymyrovich. These are, respectively, draft regulations for registration numbers: 8449-d-P, 8449-d-P1 and 8449-d-P2. As a result of these statements and rulings, we made our observations, put them to the conclusion of the committee, adopted them at the meeting, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it decide whether to adopt or reject these draft decisions by voting. The authors' arguments were available to you. The arguments of the Vojcitsky People's Deputy are mainly based on the content of the law adopted by the Supreme Council, the arguments of the People's Deputy Levchenk, to violate the individual requirements of the Rules. All of these arguments were reflected in the conclusion. I'd like to make a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please allow me to sum up the discussion on these rulings to the head of the profiling committee. Two minutes, please, Mr. Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind myself once again that the question of developing clean renewable energy is a matter of the country's energy security. I want to remind you that today we have 35 percent of an electric coal generation that has a huge amount of problems, and above all with old, worn-out funds and infrastructure that was built many, many, many decades ago. Green Energy is the only energy subsector that allows today huge investments in renewal, core funds, innovation and the development of Ukraine's energy sector. You know, we've been working on this bill a lot, and I mean, you can't support these decisions. We need to adopt this bill, which allows us to cut the price by 25 percent for the green energy of the sun from 01.01 the following year, to reduce the price of wind energy by 10 percent. To conclude, I would like to emphasize that the great evil, if anyone is talking about it in this room, is to leave the highest tariffs that we have today. This is the great evil that cannot be done. The bill must therefore be supported, and I propose not to vote in favour of the decrees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u138	Thank you. Colleagues, we've heard the position of the authors of the rulings and the heads of the committee, the heads of the regulatory committee. Is this a discussion?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u139	Colleagues, may we vote? So let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, we vote separately. Fellows, look closely. Attention! I'm asking everyone to listen to me right now. We have enough concentration in the room right now. We have a law under the D.B.I. and an anti-smoking law. We just won't be able to see them if we don't work dynamically. [[Noise Nodes]] Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? The discussion will not add or take away votes, but we will not be able to consider the anti-smoking one. And so I have a request: let's vote now, let's move on to the anti-smoking 15 minutes, and then the D.B.I. 15 minutes. That's the right thing to do, colleagues. I'm just asking you to stand. I'm asking and asking. We can then, after lunch, not find votes under the D.B.I., under the anti-smoking. We can't find it, it won't change us, it won't change the number of votes in the room. So I have a big request to vote anti-smoking right now, D.B.I., we can make it. Indeed, a request. Colleagues, all right, we got a deal. So I put each decision separately. I'm the first to vote on Order 8449-d-P. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. [[13:32:51]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Next. 8449-d-P1. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:33:13]] For-76 The decision is not taken. And closing 8449-d-P2. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:33:34]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Decisions are rejected. Colleagues, the following day, we have a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine (on the protection of public health against the harmful effects of tobacco smoke) (4030a and 4030a-1) I have a big request. [[B in m in s a l in]] I have a great request for you, colleagues, to support the consideration of the reduced procedure so that we can also make it to the D.B.I. I'm asking everyone to hear me and support me. For the summary procedure, please vote. Please be supportive. For short. We vote in favour. For short. Keep it up, fellows. [[13:34:20]] For 112 Colleagues, why not? It's very simple for us: 30 minutes of time, 30 minutes of time, we can consider the anti-tumpet order and the D.B.I. I ask everyone to vote. I'm asking for Peter Poshenko's Block. I'm asking the People's Front to back up. Fatherhood. Self-help. So the proposal for Law 4030a and Law 4030a-1 is a reduced procedure. Please vote and support. And help me, members of the committee, help me. Please vote short, colleagues, for short. Hold on, we're voting. Back up, fellows! [[13:35:11]] For-127 I'll do it again, but I ask you to understand, if it's not 150 now, we won't have a chance to review the D.B.I. law by noon. I'll do it again, colleagues. We've wasted too much time in the morning. I'm asking you now, take your jobs and support. Come in and support, colleagues. So the simplified procedure, 4030a and 4030a-1. Please support everyone carefully and responsibly. Voting, supporting. Vote! Support me, colleagues, every voice matters so we can get to the D.B.I. [[13:35:58]] For-141 I'll do it again, colleagues. On the Conciliation Council, I heard from members of all factions that both the D.B.I. and the anti-smoking. Why don't you vote, colleagues? Why don't you vote? We can't have any more chances. Why? In the daytime, it's anti-smoking. You tell Igor Lucenk who demanded the Conciliation Anti-Smoker. One and the other, colleagues, one and the other, we can make it if we vote. So vote, the reduced procedure, 4030a. All right, let's vote. Please support your colleagues, support, vote. We're backing up! We can both make it. [[13:36:56]] For a hundred and Decision taken. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee of Charity Olga Vadimovna. And I'm asking you very carefully. I'm begging you in a very concise manner. And I have one more request while Mrs. Ola goes, do I have the right-wing authors to the D.B.I. who are going to insist on the rights? Why don't you come over and let me know how long it'll take? Are there any D.B.I. right-wing authors who will insist on them? Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u140	Respectful colleagues, Ukrainians, who will be happy to speak the English language, still need to be healthy. That is why a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation (on protection of public health against the harmful effects of tobacco smoke) was put forward for consideration by the Ukrainian Parliament today. — No. 4030a. According to a study by the University of Oxford, 85,000 Ukrainians die of tobacco - related diseases each year. Smoking is a key factor in the risk of developing ischaemic heart disease, stroke, and peripheral vessel disease. Out of half a million annual deaths from cardiovascular diseases, 12 percent (more than 50,000) is the direct result of tobacco use. It is known that 80 percent of premature cardiovascular deaths can be avoided by controlling four key risk factors: tobacco use, alcohol use, unhealthy nutrition, and physical inactivity. It is symbolic that we are considering this bill on the eve of World Tobacco Day, which is celebrated on May 31. According to the Global Tobacco Survey of the 17th year, almost 23 percent of the adult population and 14 percent of children are currently smoking in Ukraine, with 60 percent of adult smokers smoking before the age of 18. Under such conditions, we cannot be strangers and watch tobacco kill our citizens. We have to act. Law 4030a has been designed to strengthen measures to combat the negative impact of tobacco on the health of the population, primarily by restricting advertising and expanding the number of public places where smoking is prohibited. We propose to ban the visible.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u141	Please finish 30 seconds. 30 seconds to complete. 30 seconds to complete, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u142	As a result of the consideration of the bill, 4030 and 4030a (alternative), the Health Committee requests the Supreme Council to support the Law 4030a and reject an alternative bill 4030a-1, which does not meet European standards, does not meet the convention. And we really want to see a European Ukraine without tobacco. Thank you. Please support the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u143	Thank you. So Mrs. Ola spoke both from the committee and as the author. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Sobolen Yegor. Irina Sisoyenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, the self-help faction will support this bill. Indeed, it is vital that we create conditions for the health of the Ukrainian nation, primarily for young people. And it must be the reduction and limitation of information on tobacco that will motivate young people to reduce their use of tobacco products, and this will have a proportional impact on their health. The bill also fully reflects the essence and content of European directives. And I think that the issue of the restriction of tobacco is a direct protection against further diseases related to lung cancer. And in general, the issue of oncology in our country is, unfortunately, at a high level. So any step that relates to the possibility of reducing cancers, the possibility of reducing those diseases that lead to severe consequences, every action aimed at prevention, at warning, is extremely important. So today's bill was submitted by the people's deputies of all political powers, and for two years he waited for his vote. And the "Unification Self-Help" faction will support it and insist that it be accepted as soon as possible and become the law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u145	Lucenko Igor Viktorovich, from the Fatherskin faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, this bill is primarily designed to protect our children with you from harmful tobacco advertising. In the 12th year, formal tobacco advertising in Ukraine was banned. But in these years, especially before the 17th year, tobacco companies have found ways to circumvent those restrictions that are now imposed by our legislation on tobacco advertising. First of all, it's such an absolutely sinister thing, like laying cigarettes in public places. So today, you, your fellow dignitaries, you can go to Krestletick, and there's the first of our Supreme Council kiosks, with tens of thousands of people passing by every day, including a large percentage of the children who go there. And they see these cigarettes, they see it and they see it as an ad, and it actually works. When I say it works, I don't just say it out loud, I say it in numbers. From the 12th to the 17th year, there was a drop in the number of smokers in Ukraine, the percentage of smokers. Since the 17th year (this is with you and me already) smoking has begun to regain its position. Once again, the number of smokers began to grow. Why? Because we've learned to go around all these limits. So let's remove this poison from the kids. Let's vote in favour of this bill just in the first reading. If any of the smokers, I'm sure, there's a lot of them here who want to protect their rights, make sure there's no problem for themselves, read this bill. There are standards that are absolutely only to support those who struggle with smoking, who restrict it, but do not limit the rights of smokers in any way. Please support your first reading. Let us consider who is doubtful. And we're going to vote it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u147	From the People's Front, Grand Chief Mikola Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, as we have just adopted the Act on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language, worrying about our future, I urge everyone to vote on this bill against tobacco. People's Front will vote in favour. We vote for our future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u149	Thank you. From the "Peter Prashenko Block" by Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to the content of these bills. First of all, they're out of date, because they were given in the 17th year. And how unpopular to talk now, but what I'm saying is that because we've taken too hard measures to raise the excise tax rates, the amount of tobacco produced in Ukraine has dropped by 10 percent! This is when in the world the average sales drop is only 2 percent. This is the first time. Now I would like to take a look at the text that is proposed for adoption. Definitions are not clear and unusable at all. Powers to the central executive authority that implements public policy in the field of State control over the enforcement of consumer rights legislation that cannot be implemented. There are no tools to track down any violations that are possible after the adoption of changes to legislation. This is the first time. And in fact, we're just killing those legal sales that are still suffering from a significant increase in the sale of counterfeit, smuggled goods. Because, of course, that product doesn't need a lecture. It is sold through such persons to themselves, out of bags, and no one sees or buys. And by the way, today the sale of tobacco products to children under the age of 18. Why, then, do not control authorities now perform their functions and stop abuses that may be observed? In general, the fight against tobacco is not caused by the adoption of such prohibitions but by the introduction of a healthy lifestyle, including for children. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u151	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u152	So everyone will make a decision in our faction. And I urge all honourable colleagues to read, first of all, the text of the draft law, and I suggest that we go back to those draft laws that really solve issues and abuse, including tobacco.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u153	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. As much as I had information that everyone supported this law. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And, colleagues, invite everyone to the hall, this is not a matter of coalition or opposition, this is a matter of health and protection for our children, the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to make a point. It's a ban on advertising. About restrictions, not bans, but restrictions on advertising. Of course, but. And one more thing I want to point out is that the law is the basis. We can work on it for second reading, we can work on it, colleagues. I'm asking you to back everyone up, come into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues, please return to the hall. I'm asking the people in the beds, the people's deputies. Victoria! Colleagues in beds, please return to the hall. We're moving on to a decision-making process. Please take your jobs. Please, let's go. I would like to point out that I will first draft Law 4030a and then alternatively by individual vote. The committee proposes to support the main law - 4030a. So invite your colleagues into a room that is not available. So take your seats. I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation (on protection of public health against the harmful effects of tobacco smoke) (4030a) Just on the ground, colleagues, just on the ground. Please vote, please support. Vote. We support you, colleagues. Take up jobs. We're backing it up. Vote. [[13:50:04]] For-157. 157. What about it, colleagues? That's just the basis. I'm going to put the next 4030a-1, the alternate one, as well. Please vote 4030 a-1 as the basis. Please be supportive. [[13:50:41]] For-153 Fellows, let's go back to the committee for work. Is that how it works? Colleagues, the working committee, that's how it works? No, the discussion is over. I'm on the committee again. We will be united to return to the committee for further work. I'm going to make the following suggestion: to return the 4030a bill to the committee for further work. Let's support this, colleagues, this is a compromise position. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support. Vote. On the committee, it's a compromise not to lose the bill. Please vote. [[13:51:44]] For-170. And the last position is to get the subject back on the right of legislative initiative to work. So I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. I'm asking you to back me up. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:52:21]] For-179 The decision is not taken. Unfortunately, colleagues. You should have warned me if anyone was against it, you should have warned me in advance that you were against it so that I could put it on or not put it on. He was required at all the agreeing councils. It was emphasized by a number of deputies. And when there are no votes, all of a sudden. You should have said it in advance. We had to say in advance that we were not voting. So draft law 4030a and 4030a-1 are rejected, colleagues. And I want to say, colleagues, that in view of the situation, I now want to place on the rating vote a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on improving the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation. It's a fine law. Colleagues, pay attention! It's a two-pronged law, there's 51 laws. In fact, Helen Sotnik, who has 8 rights, insists on the authors. And if we see that the hall is mobilized, I can continue for 15 minutes, and maybe we can look at it. But so that we don't overturn it as the previous one, I'm asking you to conduct a rating vote. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation (5395-d). Please vote, please support. It's a rating vote. Please be supportive. Vote. It's a rating vote, I think. [[13:54:08]] For 181 By factions, please let us understand. The factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 70, National Front – 49, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 14, Radical Party – 9, Fatherland – 13, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 3, non-fractional – 22. This is, at least, an orientation for you to understand who you need to work with. We'll see, colleagues, if the committee asks to postpone now, I'll postpone. And you and I will see when you can complete the consultation. Whether you work with factions by Thursday after lunch today or perhaps by Thursday. It's too important that we don't break it so we don't put it at risk. Colleagues, and I want to say that there is a great request that we once again put the question of inclusion in the daily order of the chaplains. Attention! One minute from the committee. Pantyhose, please, one minute, please. But, colleagues, pay attention! Now I'm going to give you one minute of Palamarczuk, but now I'm going to make another attempt at voting. So, colleagues! I'll give you a minute. Wait. There is a great request for us to re-inclusion of the 10279 daily session on the settlement of chaplain activities in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Everyone may not have read it, but it's the chaplain's support. I'm going to put it again, a proposal to be included in the agenda for the decision-making session. Let's vote. Let's support it, colleagues. Please support the Ukrainian chaplains on the front. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:56:36]] For 176 And now for one minute, Palamarchuk from the committee. Please, Palamarczuk, one minute away from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u154	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, Bill 5395, a very important bill, will allow our legal system to work fully. And it's very important that today the committee has agreed on all the amendments, that the committee has actually agreed and has taken into account what there is. So I ask you very much to move it to Thursday and Thursday to put this bill to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m0.u155	Okay. But I have a request for you: work with the right-wing authors, you'll have a committee on Wednesday, maybe you can find an understanding. If there are any legal disputes, work on them, and on Thursday we carry them, at the request of the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we'll define that. So, colleagues, then I announce that, at the request of the committee, the draft law 5395-d amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation (second reading) is being transposed to Thursday and proposed to be approved on Thursday. And I hope we can mobilize and be able to make a positive decision. I also want to remind you that after lunch, at 4:00, we're moving to the local self-governance cluster. And I very much ask everyone to be in the hall, at 16 o'clock, to arrive in the hall to continue our work, my colleague. And I'm asking for a high level of mobilization and fractional discipline. Now, according to the Rules, I'm forced to call a break until 4:00. The morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine I declare closed and ask everyone to arrive at the conference room at 16 hours to continue our work. Thank you.
