ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues, take up your jobs, please. So you're ready, right? So, colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the meeting. [[10:04:13]] 337 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today, colleagues, the birthday at Oksana Vasilovna Jurinec. Mrs. Oksana, congratulations on your birthday, we wish you success. [[Applause]] And I remind you that we have 30 minutes today for speeches by national MPs, not factions, but by national MPs. Anyone who intends and wishes to participate in the discussion, please record. Razwadovski Victor Sergio Melnichuku gives the floor to the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u2	Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine, journalists, colleagues, chairman. In recent days, the topic raised in the media has indeed stimulated the entire community, not just Ukraine. But why are we surprised? Did we just see that? Didn't we see from the screens here, how military equipment was cut in the 14th year, and then the person who was hiding it. The person who headed the GSP in the area of conducting the anti-terror operation then switched to Peter Mehed. I remind you that Peter Memed was exactly the representative of Maidan in one of the power structures. Where are all these quotas from Maidan in the power structures and other departments? Where is Maidan's supervision of all the structures so the Dignity Revolution will end? It's not finished, it's going to happen. I want to continue with the work of other sailors. They cut down forests, used fire trucks, stolen property, looted military property, bought helicopters, bought cars, and so on, and so on. Is that a good way to keep working here? No, it's not. Parliament has to resign, and all the current authorities together with the President. There's gotta be a full reload. The Ukrainian people have already received what is being done. And that gap that there is, it's just about to break. The Ukrainian people are patient, but this gap will break. Yes, I would like to remind you that these structures where they appear were a supervisory board that was part of the Supervisory Board. There's a Secretary of the RNBO. You think it was all done without them? I think it was their silent agreement, or perhaps they were involved. It's all to be investigated. If you're creating a TSC, create a TSC on all occasions, not on a case-by-case basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u3	Dobrenkov Alexander Valerijovich is invited to attend. He's handing it over to Vilukulu. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u4	Dear people of Ukraine! The government has completely lost its conscience: it is covered in slogans about a strong army, and in fact we see how it robs it. The government doesn't care about the lives of soldiers. The material on corruption of the First Secretary of the RNBO and one of President Dustenk's closest friends is no longer the first information on the actual blood trade. It's not the first time we've said that for this regime, war is not just power, it's a huge dirty business, over and over again, "loving friends." This power will end the war, please tell me, with billions of dollars in it? Never. On the contrary, when it comes to money, there will be no fighting on the front, as it were, because there are no relatives and houses. And here's their million-dollar profits -- they're there. I demand the immediate establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry for Parliament and have already confirmed my readiness to join it. I demand that the President come and answer the question of Parliament immediately. We're waiting for you in the Council, Peter Alexiovich. You apologized for not being able to stop the war. Why didn't you apologize for making billions of dollars in this war? Thieves, war, poverty are the real slogans of Dusty. I call on Peter Alexiovich to voluntarily withdraw from the election. Dear people of Ukraine, the president must be the one who will stop the war, not the one who makes billions of dollars in it. This power will never stop a war. So that's what we're gonna do. We rebuild the country, we bring people back to normal life. Enough of this new life. Ukrainians have to live in peace and human life. That's why we, the Opposition Block, immediately begin the journey to the people's impeachment. The National Assembly of Signatures v. President Dustenk's second term. Because the prescribed path to impeachment is now through Parliament -- it's unrealistic, and it's unlikely that Parliament will be able to pass through it. But the people's impeachment is the real will of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u5	Smuggling Grigory Mikhailovich gives Hotcharenko’s word for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u6	Alexei Hotcharenko, BPP, Clothing. Dear friends, I would like to ask you to consider tomorrow's Bill 9331, which applies to Crimean traitors. Those who betrayed their Fatherland, those who contributed to the occupation and annexation of the Crimea Peninsula. Unfortunately, yesterday, on the day of the Crimean resistance to Russian occupation, we were unable to consider the matter. But I very much hope that tomorrow we will find time and opportunity to do so. It was in these days, exactly five years ago, that all the pro-Ukrainian forces of the Russian annexation were resisted. It was in these days that Peter Poroshenko, the only one of the top Ukrainian politicians, came to Crimea and tried to stop the annexation and tried to change the situation. It was in these days that this work took place. That is why it is so important today, surely, for us to support our criminals, to support those who look to Ukraine from Crimea, waiting for us to make decisions that bring back Ukraine’s control over our Crimea. And the second. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine, according to the information we have, annulled the article on illicit enrichment. I want to say on behalf of the Peter Dust Block: we're very sorry about that decision. We think it should be changed immediately as follows. We invite all our colleagues to join us in writing a bill that will allow all of us to return the article on illicit wealth to the Criminal Code. So that those who show that they don't have anything, like a leader, a leader of one of our factions that has nothing: no housing, no car, nothing -- but they're winding up in dozens of people, guards, hairdressers, and so on, to be held accountable. So I ask all of you, dear friends, to join the B.P.P. faction, to prepare an appropriate bill immediately and to adopt this law together. And what's happening now is the hystericalness of the honourable representatives, it's not easy. That's because we said about Crimea, when one of the candidates said that no tank left the section so no soldier could take the machine, Prašenko was protecting Crimea. And that's why they're so full of it, and that's why they're so hysterical. Drink time with mint and melissa, and you will be ahead. Thank you, dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u7	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich is invited to attend. And, colleagues, please, calm down in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u8	Good afternoon! Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency, Brodovščina, Radehovščina, Kamyanka-Buzký and Bouské region I want to speak to the head of the State Department in the Radehiv region again. I was approached by the public education staff of the I-II level, the village of Pavlov Radehov district of Lviv district, because of problems related to the allocation of rations. The violations found during the dismantling and privatization of the land of the forest Ukrainian collective agricultural enterprise were recognized by the Radehiv District Court of the Lviv Region and resulted in violations of the rights of applicants. In view of the fact that the complainants have repeatedly addressed the Pavlovian Rural Council of the district of Radehiv and the district’s leadership, asking for help in restoring their rights and interests, they have not yet been able to solve their problems. And in order to protect their rights themselves, they cannot obtain the necessary information. Therefore, I repeat my request to the Head of the Department of State in the Radehiv region to provide detailed information on the presence of undistributed land of a ration fund in and outside the Pavlovska Rural Council. And I'm going to ask you to give this information to both the customers and the applicants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u9	Thank you. Sümar Victoria Petrovna gives the floor to Andrew Teteruk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! I have repeatedly called on this rostrum since 2016 to identify us with the day of honoring the memory of the dead defenders of Ukraine. At first it was the initiative of the Supreme Council as a decision, then it was determined what it should do, by its decree such a day to determine the president of Ukraine Peter Poroshenko. In fact, a great deal of work was done. After several meetings with the President, an expanded round table was held on which were the families of the dead, our brothers, the clergy of our country, including the Philaret, the heroes of Ukraine, the national heroes of Ukraine, the representatives of the General Staff, the Ministry of Defence, that is, all kinds of people who could represent, represent the opinion of the population. And it was unanimously voted that such a day should be established in Ukraine, that we should learn to respect those who allow our lives to dream and build the future. And even after our People's Front MP turned to the President not to delay signing the decree, we received a response from the President's Administration. I want to read literally what they're proposing to us: "Return to the issue that was raised after the war ended in the eastern part of the country, to restore its sovereignty and territorial integrity." I find that decision unacceptable, thoughtless, and that is contrary to common sense. Because Israel has chosen its future from the first days of its existence in fierce opposition to the countries with which it is bordering, and yet they have each year as they honor all those citizens of Israel who have perished, defending Israel’s sovereignty. The United States likewise has a day when they honor dead veterans. In Ukraine alone, we are wondering whether we need to do this or not, causing additional pain to the families of our warring brothers and, in fact, to our military personnel, to all those who defend our country, going out daily to carry out combat duties as an assignment. And so as a commander who lost his subjects in the struggle against the Russian occupation, I have a moral duty to do my utmost to make this day possible. President Dustenko, as High Commander, likewise has a moral obligation to set this day without binding it on a date that is not yet set in the future. We have to accept this day and learn to have civilized respect at the level of the State for every Ukrainian life that has been lost to protect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our state. We need to be civilized, we need to be human, and we need to learn to give.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u11	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u12	A deep respect for every Ukrainian, every daughter and son of Ukraine who died fighting for the future of our country. This day should be set yesterday is our moral duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u13	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Andrey. Paul Unguryan, a national MP, is now invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u14	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the shocking data that was published literally a few weeks ago while we were working with you in the districts: that in Ukraine in 2018, according to 2018, the city of Ivano-Frankivsk disappeared. I don't know if you've been to Ivano-Frankivsky, maybe someone represents us here in Ivano-Frankivsky or in the Ivano-Frankiv region, but it's said that as a result of 2018, Ukraine decreased by a population of about 250,000 people, the famous city of Ivano-Frankivska, which is more than 200,000, about 250,000 people. Honorable fellow national MPs, some 900 newborn babies are born daily in Ukraine, but more than 1,600 Ukrainians die daily. This means that daily, daily, Ukraine loses about 700 people. Today we will live, God will give the day, the Ukrainians will decrease by 700, tomorrow will be minus 700, tomorrow will be minus 700. And these are just birth rates and mortality rates. If you add labour migration to it, if you add student migration to it, Ukraine is shrinking at a terrible rate. And today we need to urgently, urgently use these measures, which, firstly, stimulate the birth of children, stimulate large multi-child families that would encourage young people to be in Ukraine, stay here, and be born right here. I call on all candidates to the Presidents, we have a lot of them, to add this block of national security and, in fact, demographics, to the future of Ukraine, to its pre-election programs and to the rhetoric that is today. We have a challenge to overcome this, my friends, because soon we have no one in Ukraine to rule as a parliament. We're shrinking and shrinking, and we're shrinking like a nation. If you add all the anti-Ukrainian, anti-family technologies that we're forced to do because of some incomprehensible movement, because of some gender ideologies, because of some anti-discrimination expertise in textbooks, where kids are taught that we don't need to teach that Dad and Mom -- that Dad and Dad might not be teaching girls that they're future mothers, that they should be the guardians of their family, that they're, excuse me, gender stereotypes. What's all this about? I urge the Minosvets not to go on these grant programs. I call on all of us to unite and invite us to the All - Ukrainian Family Forum, which will be held this Friday at the Ukrainian House together.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u15	Thank you. Please make the next statement. National Deputy Igor Shurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u16	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm addressing those people in the European Choice Coalition. So I'll show you what European choice you're proposing in Ukraine. It's a choice of voting: buttoning for laws, once, and then not doing them. Do you want an example? Please. In the absence of the concept of a national health system, you voted in favour of the Law on the Autonomization of Health Institutions. It was to be introduced by January 1, 2019. For that, there was the so - called transition regime. Done in Ukraine? Not done. Where is the Ministry of Health responsible for his decision? Forget Suprun, she's gone. The Prime Minister said he's taking responsibility. The Cabin collapsed the work, crushed the medicine -- the one that existed. Bill on your so-called reform of European choice 6327. When was it to work? Since January 1, 2018. Did it work when? So-so with fractures from the first half of the year. Why? Because there's no money. The End Positions say that 5 percent of the internal gross product should be allocated to health care. What did you sell in the budget? Almost three, there's no money. And this reform is going to be towing. I don't know who's going to follow the patients, but you're going to go from there exactly because it's the Kabmin who's responsible for its implementation. In May of last year you voted here (I don't really know what you were thinking) during a period of war where people go missing, the Transplant Act. Few people from all factions on the committee said, "Don't vote because you won't be able to start it since January 1, 2019, and the old law will stop." Everyone voted. Yesterday, Mom was quoted as saying to the committee: “Let us continue with the statute of limitations. ” On the committee was a man who was covered by Kabmin, who said, "It's cancer. They're all going to die." You're going to die politically, that's for sure. And this man promised to carry out this bill. They didn't do anything. What's going on yesterday? You'll be pressing the transplant law button tomorrow, you will. This law is a new law that must unite the two existing ones today? I won't. He's not even registered yet. You didn't read the text. You're going to vote for this tomorrow and you're going to be fully responsible for the fact that this law won't work again, because in six months, it's going to be very, very hard to come up with. Instead, they offered a new position -- a transplant coordinator with higher education, and we don't know what the requirements are. Our great state, the European choice: the transplant has to have higher education, and the minister will be without education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u17	Thank you. Please welcome Mikola Knieżicki. Mr. Mikolo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, tomorrow we should begin to consider the Law on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language. It is an extremely important law, it is our political responsibility in this calling, it is our civic duty to our families, our children, our future. When I watch on some television channels videos about how the oligarchs seem to want to divide society in language, I realize that it is the oligarchs who are the subscribers of these videos, because no oligarch supports this bill. All of them are doing their utmost to ensure that there are no people in this room, there are no meetings, so that this law is not accepted for election and is not adopted after the election. But we'll do everything we can to have this law passed. Why? Because 85 percent of Ukrainians consider Ukrainian to be their native language, according to a survey by the Centre of Razumkov. The law we want to adopt must protect the rights of all Ukrainians living in Ukraine. Today, we have no law that regulates the use of Ukrainian as a national language, because this law was annulled by the Constitutional Court's decision, together with the law called Koleschenka-Kivalova, even though such laws have all our neighbours: both Poland, and Slovakia, and the Baltic countries. If they did not have such laws, the Poles would now speak Russian, German, Czech, German, and the Baltic countries Russian. If we want to build a normal country, we have to adopt a democratic law. That's what the project is. He in no way deprives national minorities or indigenous peoples of the right to use their languages, he protects them, although this protection will be prescribed in an additional law that the Cabinet of Ministers will introduce in the next six months. A huge number of myths are spreading against this law. For example, there will be some kind of language inspection. There will be no language inspection. There are only two bodies: a commission that approves language standards (these are scientists) and has language authority that monitors how existing authorities implement this legislation. It is said that this law introduces a illustration of all the military. No, all military personnel would serve and serve, testifying to their knowledge of the language by studying Ukrainian in high school. The law protects our language, it protects our media. He's leaving our country from rising. It hurts me to look at the manipulations, the lies, the lies and the efforts that people who never want an independent power to rise up in Ukraine. And we're not going to build an independent power if we're not technically, culturally, economically separate from that country that colonized us for 300 years that banned Ukrainian language that did not allow democracy to be built. Because in a democratic country that speaks Ukrainian with respect to the languages of national minorities and indigenous peoples, there will never be a dictatorship. To avoid dictatorship, we must build such a country under European rules by adopting the President's first round of elections, the Act on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u19	Thank you, Your Honor. And immediately, Oleg Medunica is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u20	Oleg Medunica, town of Sumi. Honorable colleagues from the country of Ukraine have repeatedly raised the problem of granting subsidies to the population of Ukraine. At the time of Arsenius Yatzenuk's prime ministership, the procedure for calculating subsidies was actually declarant. And regardless of who was registered in one apartment or another, people received subsidies. People received subsidies even for the housing they were taking off. But unfortunately, in recent times, the category of people who have the right to housing subsidies has been shrinking steadily. Last year, even in a regulation that regulates this order, the government entered such a discriminatory rule that those who do not pay the EU are exempt from subsidies. And we, including from this rostrum, forced the government to rewrite this position. And now all those in debt on wages, including state enterprises, have the opportunity to receive subsidies. But there remains a huge category of people who are deprived of this right: these are the people, mostly older people, who have lost contact with those who are registered in the apartment and cannot physically write them out, who cannot write them out by a court decision; they are pensioners who have children abroad; they are single mothers who, for example, have divorced their husband and who are still registered, and they have no connection with him; but social protection agencies are forcing them to provide guidance on the income of a person who has long since lived with his family. I think it's discrimination. Therefore, the existing situation allows local social protection authorities to address these issues, but only with the recommendations set out in a letter from the Ministry of Social Policy. That's why I, and not only myself, an entire group of national deputies, demand that the decision be amended and that the right of such a category of Ukrainian citizens, their housing and utility subsidies, be clearly prescribed. Because it is unfair to grant one subsidy and to deprive others of the subsidy under even worse conditions. Because local self - government authorities are not everywhere, their grant authorities have good will and go to meet people. Sadly, in many cases they leave people with no subsidies. And I urge the government to put it in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u21	Thank you. And there is the invitation of the national MP John Sporish. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u22	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. Of course, when we meet with our constituents, we would love to, and we always apologize to them for the work of our Supreme Council. Of course she came yesterday. All day long, we've passed only one law -- it's the permission of other states' troops in our country for the 19th year. And we could take a lot more. Why? Because from this rostrum we hear the electoral pierre, and we always know that in March months before the election, we'll only hear about the pierre, unfortunately. But we would like to speak more of what concerns us Ukrainians, what concerns Crimea today. Why? Because it's exactly five years, and I think we should keep talking from this rostrum, not just today, about five years of Russian invasion of Crimea. I think that our leaders, who are now Crimean, who are now truly members of the Supreme Council, are giving their health to the Crimea for its freedom. But unfortunately, these are all the lying putin' green men five years ago when we invaded, and we have to do everything we can today to get the Crimean, Crimean Tatars to hear that we're from the Supreme Council stand today to do everything we can to make Crimea more quickly. Indeed, it is Ukrainian, but it has become free of Russia. Unfortunately, I wanted to say a few more words for these pensioners who are actually going to receive these payments today. Of course, we're only listening to populism, that even though these extra pensions are for these poor people and so much so that they really need, especially our voters, these are the rural population, they have to get these supplements. Because all this money that came for the Europlums, six months ago, we talked about Nina Jujanina personally saying that all the money that comes in, they're going to retire, they're going to retire to our underprivileged. And that's right. But I think that today we will hear a sea of compromises from this rostrum because everyone today will plough about the presidential election. But my voters are very concerned about something else, and my constituents are worried about today, especially the death of the Black people, where today I would very much like to draw attention to this from the Supreme Council. The fact that 90-95 percent of the pipelines have already been fully bonded, and unfortunately there's only 5 percent left, and Naftogaz can't get my Chernitzers on Winnitzkin, can't plug in and let people have gas. This is a very big disaster. And the second disaster that I also wanted to call attention to again, and I'm going to pay attention to it again and again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u23	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u24	It's that snow has come down, and today the roads have come down with the snow. Of course, we understand how much the government has done about road construction. But once again, the road on Winnitzkin is the limestone, the High, the Crusade -- it's not, it's not bad at all, it's a road that doesn't exist at all. And so today we should not repair roads that are bad, we have a lot of them, we should repair roads that are not at all available. And this is the exact route that is the national meaning, and they have to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u25	Thank you. So, colleagues, the time for speeches is over. Several statements came to the fore. The first is the announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Women's Initiative for Family Values in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bilozur Oksana Volodymyrna, was elected head of this association. Welcome! And, colleagues, two recess applications. One statement is ready to be replaced, and the other one is a real break for half an hour. So first I'm going to give the floor to the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front, and then I'm going to announce a real break. That's what I understand. Please, three minutes. After this performance, it's a real break.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! A week ago we were meeting in this room, there were military, activists, representatives of the Crimean Tatar people, our foreign guests, foreign representatives. We noted and summed up the five - year aggression that the Russian Federation carried out with regard to Ukraine to the Ukrainian people. We talked about shamefully annexed Crimea, we talked about occupied Donbas, we talked about the presence of Russian troops in Ukrainian territory. Our European friends have noted the great courage of the Ukrainian people. In particular, Donald Tusk, head of the European Council, clearly and strongly supported Ukraine by noting the reforms that have been implemented over the past five years, while Ukraine is at war, in fact, at war with the Russian Federation. So Ukrainian citizens, listening to me now from this rostrum, ask themselves questions about what these reforms have given to every Ukrainian. I'll give you an answer. The 2019 budget, which we voted for, is a fundamental principle for all national deputies, apart from individual opposition factions: the state will protect all those in need of state aid. Today, 63 billion dollars is plus 3 billion subsidies to local social assistance budgets. All citizens, all low - income families, will be helped to live. This includes a package of babies and a "municipal nanny" and help for many families. The budget provides for the monetaryization of subsidies. This year, these subsidies will be issued to every citizen, every household, who is unable to pay for public services to the end. This will allow, on the one hand, to support these families, on the other hand, to save gas, to save energy resources, which will contribute positively to the nation’s energy security. To date, pensions will be indexed. About 300 dollars for 8 million pensioners – assistance and indexation will help pensioners raise these pensions. A large amount of money -- 2 000 420 dollars -- in March and April will be paid to those pensioners whose pension is small enough. It's a state with the potential of an economy that's 12 blocks in a row showing growth, helping and socially turning its faces to people, and helping people. In education, teachers’ wages were raised three times. About a billion are allocated to affordable and free.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u27	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u28	About 3 billion are allocated to diagnostics and to the construction of cardio centers. 3,000 miles [3,000 km] of roads were built and repaired in Ukraine. These are the achievements that have been accomplished by the Ukrainian authorities today. It's school repairs, it's garden repairs, it's a reduction in lines in these gardens, it's creating a new educational space for our young, it's an additional lighting repair.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u29	Thank you. So, colleagues, initiators of the next statement require a real break. These are the factions of Fatherland and the Radical Party. So I'm calling it a 30-minute break, until 11:10. And I invite the heads of factions to the third floor of the conference room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u30	My colleagues, I'm sorry, the meeting was extended and it was a little longer. Now that I'm done with the initiators' meeting, I'm going to announce the opportunity to speak, and then we're going to look at the agenda. And, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall so that we have a chance today to consider at least one full law. Three minutes now, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u31	Now I want to go to the people of Ukraine, to everyone who can hear us now, because what's happening in Ukraine is practically extraordinary circumstances, it's a scandal on a global scale. During the war, at a time when our military at the border is being shot down, when the occupied Crimea and Donbass, at this time the Chief Commander of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, through his enterprise, "Leninska Kusina", was conducting corrupt equipment, providing corrupt spare parts for Ukrainian military equipment from the aggressor country, selling corrupt, unusable, spare parts to our defence complex factories, thereby undermining our country's defence capabilities, while at the same time selling recycled, laundering the cache. And this was done entirely on the basis of evidence, on the documentary basis of an investigation by a journalist in Ukraine. The scandal has reached its climax. And Parliament has no right to sit down, not to include those instruments that are provided for in the Constitution. The Constitution provides for an impeachment procedure for the President, no more strong structure can investigate the crimes of the President, only the Parliament under the Constitution. And now the question is, is Parliament a party to this mega-corruption? Because what journalists were investigating was just the tip of the iceberg. Because the President-in-chief of the country, as well as its corrupt environment, are running mega-corruption equipment to provide inadequate equipment for the army, as well as violence against the defence complex, because it's going to go down two or four times. All of this today gives us the opportunity to analyze all of the activities of the Ucroborprom, to analyze all the deliveries to the Ministry of Defense, so we need to create a temporary commission of inquiry. I want to thank the Radical Party of Ukraine of Oleg Lášk, who signed the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry; the Self-Help party, which signed in full; and the non-faction deputies who did it. And I can also say that there are people in every faction who have supported the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry, including the beginning of an impeachment procedure. But today, unfortunately, there are several factions that do not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u32	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u33	who don't give their members to this temporary commission of inquiry. And unfortunately, there was no decision today to put to the vote and to create this temporary commission of inquiry. Moreover, illegally signed letters were called off to collect signatures for the impeachment procedure. We demand that the interim commission of inquiry be immediately voted on tomorrow, and the investigation into the corruption of the Commander-in-Chief in the army has been suspended, and absolutely exactly everyone has been called to account.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, before I go to the next question of the agenda, I want to make one message, which. Just to remind you of the situations that arise in the room during the discussion of a bill. I would like to read article 52 of the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure, paragraph 5, which states: "If the speaker exceeds the time set aside for the speech, or if he does not speak on the question under discussion, or if he does not speak on the grounds on which he is given the floor, the chairman of the plenary will warn him of it and if he continues to violate the requirements of this Rules, he will be deprived of his word." This is a direct norm, colleagues who are used in European parliaments, which is used in South Africa, in assemblies. And I stress that this is not even the right, but the duty of either the Head of the Supreme Council or the chairman of the meeting. So we don't have to have any discussion about that. We are now moving to the draft Act amending article 44 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (5023). Who's in favour of considering it as a reduced procedure, please vote. [[11:46:08]] For-64 Let's move on to a full review procedure (no decision taken), to a project to amend article 44 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. And I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister of Social Policy. Alexander Igorovna Churkin, please come to the rostrum. Spiowakovsky is preparing for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u35	Good afternoon! Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine since 24 December 2015 amended part three of article 44 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. According to article 44, the right to participate in a competition for admission to higher education institutions as a result of the induction examinations from the relevant subjects are, inter alia, children of orphans. At the same time, the current norm is not distributed to children deprived of parental care and to those in number. So according to legislation, state social guarantees, standards and norms that are currently set up for orphans and children deprived of parental care are the same. In addition, the right to the vast majority of legislative aids, including full State detention until completion of education, are also granted to persons who are orphans and deprived of parental care. That is why the bill proposes to extend the operation of article 44 to children deprived of parental care and to persons deprived of parental care. The adoption of the said act will allow children deprived of parental care and individuals of their number to participate in competitions, under-privileged trials when entering higher educational institutions. With a view to preserving and protecting the rights of these children, we ask for the support of Bill 5023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u36	Thank you. You had 10 minutes to do the show. Stay in the rostrum, please stay in the rostrum. Dear colleagues. Ma'am, stay in the rostrum. Dear colleague, please remain in the rostrum. Don't worry, you're in the friendly circle of Ukrainian national deputies. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for a question to our distinguished colleague, please. Please, National Deputy Melniczuk, your question. Passes the word to John Sporish. Please, John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u37	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, we thank Mrs. Alexandre Churkini for actually introducing the bill today, because we have to think for orphans, we have to protect them. Of course, we should not only have them but also, as she was told, they are from the number of deprived parental care. So I think we all have to protect this category today. But I do have a question for the following. About how many of these children are there in a year? I would very much like you to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u38	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u39	Thank you. So far, we have analyzed the total number of such children who were in a position to start this year. The total number of children was seventy-one and a half thousand, of whom 21,000 are orphans who are already subject to this law, and 49,000 children deprived of parental care. But we understand that children are 23 plus and 35 plus, so most of them are already children. They're not kids, they're adults who have education.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u40	Thank you. Next question. It's Ivan Sporish again, isn't it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u41	I ask you to pass the word to Grigory Mikhailovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u42	Mr. Gregory, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u43	Thank you. Your Honor, I have a question for you. What additional protection is there for these children deprived of parental care and for those in their number, besides the benefits when such children enter higher educational institutions? Is there yet a specific protection?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u44	Thank you for asking. For the time being, these children are entitled to full State detention if they enter a higher education facility.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u45	Thank you. Thank you. And the final statement, please, is the national MP, Macola. Your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u46	Good afternoon. Roman Macola, 190 constituency, Hmelnicka district. You know, it's a very good initiative, of course, because if children deserve it, and they deserve it, well, and maybe it's not even children anymore, if indeed, said Mrs. Alexander, it's the right approach and the right initiative. My question is, Is there a comprehensive approach to supporting children deprived of parental care and those in active legislation?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u47	Thank you. So at the moment, well, we understand that there is now reform, transformation of internal institutions, and now the Ministry of Social Policy, together with the profile representatives of the professional committees and representatives of other central executives, is developing a separate DI bill, which contains separate positions specifically in support of orphans and children deprived of parental care, and individuals of their number.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u48	Thank you. Now you can go back to your place of work, Mrs. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u50	And I would like to invite our colleague to the floor of the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education, Alexander Spiowakovsky. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I want to say that, once again, we refer to what. Why can’t our politicians understand why things haven’t changed in 27 years? Because when we discuss the election of the President, the Supreme Council, we find crimes, anything; when we discuss education and science, we are gone. Dear colleagues, it will never be, because young people see the structure of what's going on here, we have. This is a question that we're discussing today, it's not just a question, it's not just a question of how to compare rights with access to higher education for orphans and children deprived of parental care. Let's take a look at this. So I made some special arrangements, and I would like to see our discussion unfold around this. First. The dominant raw material model forms the linear development of Ukraine's economy and, as a result, the lowest wages in Ukraine. And by the way, the presence of the national deputies here once again shows that the one representing the raw materials is missing today. The structure of business located in our country shows a lack of interest in the formation of human capital with high added value. Even a slight change in the value of raw materials leads to the release of workers, and this shows the very low value of human capital in the structure of the appropriate resources, the corresponding enterprises. Analyze the structure of the key resources of our companies: finance, material, human, intangible, resources, IT resources -- you'll see the real situation. Do Ukraine’s business need high - value human capital? No, I'm sure you don't. In the 21st century, where changes in knowledge and technology are already taking place, not in one career cycle, but in one fifth, where there is a very rapid change in technology and knowledge, we need to understand that the dominant model should be not socially oriented, but rather investment attractive. We don't spend money on education, we invest money. The desire not to spend, but the investment should be the basis for the interaction of power, business, society, education, at all levels: from preschool, primary, general secondary, vocational and technical, to higher education. Three things -- and people won't leave Ukraine: quality education, quality health care and welfare infrastructure -- is the way to build an exponential model of Ukraine's economy. The role of schools in this model is crucial. The school, along with the teacher, is the source of human capital formation. Mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, geography, astronomy are locomotives for successful child development. Without the formation of motivations, both at the level of the State and the local authorities, we will never solve this issue. The deterioration of the results of the COD, the decline in the number of children who give up the COD from fundamental disciplines, the catastrophic migration of graduates of the eastern, southern regions of Ukraine should force the authority to invest in education. There is no other way to build Ukraine. One of the key elements of this situation is to create a condition of equal access to quality education that is not available, both from a territorial point of view and from the point of view of access of children to a teacher, a high-letter teacher, regardless of the social status of parents or their absence; from whether the child is an orphan or is deprived of parental care. Look, dear colleagues, not now, not in a wallet, but look into the eyes of children who have lost the opportunity to cling to their mother or to the shoulder of their parents, with which they look with sadness and tears in their eyes, just as they look at them, only wrapped in the love of their parents. And isn't it our great sin, our national MPs, who for two years have not found the motivation to vote to give tens of thousands of such children the same access to higher education as orphans? The failure to solve the social problems of children gives rise to a youth’s attitude toward the country as a stepmother. Listen, stepmother country, is this about Ukraine? Your vote today, I'm sorry, will answer the question. And let the sad eyes of children who have not been happy with their parents see their fate from the decisions of those whom the people of Ukraine have chosen to defend the future of our nation. You can build a kindergarten in a year. Can you build a child’s fate without caring for it? Can a future generation be built without a teacher? And can a teacher be formed without motivation? These are the questions that we need to answer. We vote in favour of this bill and show our attitude toward our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u52	Thank you. I'm asking you to stay in the rostrum. I'm asking a colleague. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for Mr. Spiowakovsky's question. I'm literally going to continue this session for one minute so that we can exhaust this cluster of questions to the reporter. Please, National Deputy Sauka. Your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u53	Thank you, Madam Chairman. That's my question. Our children, on their own, should not be orphans. And the state has to take care of every child, because this is our future, our nation. So I have one question. Is there any benefit in this Bill 5023 for military personnel involved in the ATO, in their time participating in the ATO, and at present in the OOS? And the second question. Soldiers who are wounded, who are disabled, their children should also be in certain categories of assistance, aid from the State, and they also need some care that their parents have done their job in due course, and at present the State should take care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. Now I want to say that this question is already settled. So the children of the dead, there are categories written down that already have these benefits. In this case, it was just technical, in my opinion, it was a technical mistake: when we wrote about the status of the children of ATO heroes, the children whose parents died, we also recorded orphans. But unfortunately, there's a category written separately: "children deprived of parental care." And this category, it's sometimes in even worse situations than orphans. And these kids don't have the same benefits. So this Law 5203 has to settle matters and compare orphans to children who are deprived of parental care.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u55	Thank you. Next question, please. Mrs. Zrańko, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u56	Please turn on the microphone, Mr. Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u57	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. I have an immediate question to both the reporter and the first reporter, and to the leadership of the Supreme Council. Well, first of all, it's a very strange situation: the changes to the Higher Education Act are reported by the Ministry of Social Policy. Why not Naftogazu or Crushing, or is there any other structure? And we may also be suffering from the use of pesticides. In the country, there is a huge scandal about how the army is being robbed and how it cannot be protected, and the Supreme Council, the highest legislative body, is discussing secondary laws that can be taken into account and adopted in a peaceful environment. I have a question for all of you: what are we doing here?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u58	Thank you for asking. With all due respect, I've been working for four years on a committee called the Committee on Science and Education. And this committee, and my distinguished fellow national deputies from this committee: Taras Kremen, representing the People's Front, Alexei Alexiyovich Screepnik, representing Self-Help, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, who represents. It represents no faction, John Grigorovich Kirilenko, who represents "The Fatherland," – we represent various factions. But the center of our work and what we're responsible for is the children's education. It's that our children get quality education here so that the authorities, you say, don't think about how to teach their children in London or the United States and have children there, but how to make them here. And our committee will never depart from this position. Please let's decide who's going to be president of the election, who's going to be national deputies. As long as I'm a national MP and I'm working on this committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u59	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u60	Our children. And in any situation, whether the rostrum is blocked or few national deputies, let the people of Ukraine see who came, who voted. Any man has the opportunity to see who and how he voted. This is our job. And the work of the courts, the law enforcement agencies -- let them clarify if he did -- in prison. This is a very simple rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u61	Thank you. There was a question before the presidency. The Presidency is working conscientiously to serve as Ukrainian national deputies and presiding officers at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. With regard to other Ukrainian deputies, each should be responsible for himself. Someone's escorting their leaders, someone's currently competing with 95th Street, who's funnier. This is a question for every Ukrainian national MP that he does. Thank you for asking. And please ask you why your ministry is professional. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u62	The Ministry of Social Policy is the central body of executive power responsible for shaping social policies, including in the field of child rights. That's why children of childless children, children deprived of parental care, and those of them are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Social Policy. We need to guarantee these children their rights and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u63	Thank you. Thank you for your answer. I hope that, on the other hand, we will ask that in the course of the consideration of such drafts concerning several ministries be attended by representatives of the Ministry of Profiles. Thank you very much. And we continue our questions. The last one, please, is the People's Chamberlain. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u64	Thank you. Grigory Smoky, Peter Dust Block. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I am very impressed with your position, your attitude in general in the problems of education. And I thank you very much as a colleague and as a teacher of higher education. And I want to ask you and hear the answer to that question. As a teacher of higher education, I often have to see things like this when orphans, half-orphans come to the lecture very tired. Because they usually work at night either as waiters or as janitors or as car washes. How do you see that we can fix the budget around midterms and assign scholarships to these children at least at minimum wage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u65	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u66	Now what I'm saying is, according to EDEBO, today we have about 9,000 children who have the status of "orphans" and children deprived of parental care, 9,000, that's level III-IV. I'm telling the old man in particular to make it clear. And 3.5 thousand children are those kids who study in technologies and colleges, i.e. higher level-II education. It's older than that, so it's about 12 or 13,000 children, it's not that much. And absolutely calmly, if we count, we could, in fact, give these children with that status a minimum, that is, not to be attached to the minimum wage, but to be attached to the minimum wage, so that, in fact, these children would have the opportunity if God took away that opportunity from them. Even today, I am going to put in a post that we did at the University of Herson, as children in families celebrate.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u67	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u68	Children who do not have such opportunities are celebrated: orphans and children deprived of parental care. So I'm going to put on this video for 10 minutes, and without tears, you can't watch this video. We're working on it, and a lot of other universities, not only does the Herson State do these things. So I think we can quietly prepare a bill to solve this issue. We have to protect these children.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have now exhausted questions from the national MPs to the co-reporter. I'm calling a break for 30 minutes, up to 12 hours 40 minutes. And please all return to the session room at 12:40, we will continue to work. There was a question about what the Supreme Council of Ukraine was doing: we will continue to consider this bill to amend article 44 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. And I hope we can make an effective decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. And I want to remind the country's distinguished national deputies and all the Ukrainians who are following the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we are considering a bill amending article 44 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. And until the break, the co-authors of this bill (this is a government bill) were able to present. The co-reporters, more faithfully, he's reporting to the government and to the profile committee. So now we're going to talk about the bill. We're looking at it as a whole. And so I'm now asking you to sign up for representatives of MPs and factions to discuss the draft Act amending article 44 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. After the factions have spoken, we will have the opportunity to join the debate and the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please, Igor Shurma's position on the Opposition Block is presented.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u71	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, I will tell you at the beginning of my speech that the faction of the Opposition Block will clearly support this bill, which relates to the amendment to article 44 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. And we are no doubt in favor of including children deprived of parental care and their loved ones. and persons from their number to the list of persons who have the right to participate in the competitions as a result of the opening statements. But me. I'd like to focus on the next one. So for some reason, all of us today are looking at all legislative initiatives that are aimed at solving problems as a consequence. We are talking about what children should be given. deprived of parental care, that is, we are talking about orphans. And why don't we in the Supreme Council raise the issue of fighting orphans, fighting this phenomenon, freeing the parental care of people? Look, fatherhood can, but we all understand perfectly, it can be different. It can be purely physiological, right? – this is one problem, an orphan may be involved in the deaths of people in military operations in the east of the number and civilian population, and in the number of military personnel. These too must be eliminated. We're talking. We don't raise the issue of social orphans today, and social orphans are the worst of all. And I don't know how much this bill will help solve this problem with the benefits. Because, you know, people go abroad, one of the family members: either a mother or a father, there's a child left unattended, with nothing. Would she then need all the benefits, or would she not need, even who is growing out of that child? The same questions the Supreme Council doesn't raise. Unfortunately, this is not the first time. The Transplant Act will be passed tomorrow. Why will we make changes and complements? Because the Ministry of Health has overturned the implementation of this law. Just like Bill 6327, which came in from the first half of the year, and the money is no longer for medical reform. Just like the Law on the Autonomization of Institutions, which was not decided by January 1, 2019. Yesterday we lost a lot of time to a bill that referred to changing names in the military, so we wanted to introduce a sergeant master, a sergeant. Are these such important questions? And today in the hall, unfortunately, I don't know, I might be able to mobilize people, but there's no one, well, there's no one. Well, there's up to 100 people in the hall, no more. Well, how are we? We talk so well about orphans, and then we'll say that there are no people. We've exhausted ourselves. And here's what we're getting at: these dogfights in the presidential race, they're getting us there, and we're not fighting the main ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u72	Thank you. Thank you once again to all colleagues who are discussing purely bills, as provided for in article 52, part five, of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Work. Now Igor Mosiychuk presents the position of the Radical Party faction on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u73	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Dear Ukrainians, of course, our faction supports the Orphan Protection Bill. Our leader, Oleg Lazko, is a symbol of a man who has been able to reach the Ukrainian Parliament and has many and many heights ahead. Oleg Laska's path -- because of working as a tractorist, then being a student, then working as a journalist, now as a parliament -- he's supposed to be such a guide. And it's the policy of our party, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska, to bring into this room Ukrainians, orphans, those who deserve to sit in this Parliament. But when we talk about the protection of orphans, we can't help but say that, first of all, Ukrainian orphans and Ukrainian children need to be protected from irresponsibleness in this room where there are no national deputies now. We need to protect ourselves against the Suprun and non-vaccination and massive measles, Kobolev and his premiums, which he, the billions, writes to himself, from the corrupters who steal and rob every soldier. So let's protect Ukrainian orphans, Ukrainian children from corrupters. What the Constitutional Court did yesterday demonstrates is only one thing: the authorities, President Peter Poroshenko, clearly realizes that he is losing the presidential election, and the authorities cancel the article on illegal wealth, which on the second day could be the arrest of corruptionists from the nearest President's environment, cancel this article so as not to be held accountable. From these judges, we must protect Ukrainian children, Ukrainian orphans. And Oleg Lazko, and our party will do it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the closer the election is, the more difficult it is for the Presidium to protect the Supreme Council from the electoral agitators of the Supreme Council and from the violation of the Rules, but I will do it anyway. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm not intruding, I'm in session. In the national language, please make a note of the Presidium. Okay? I demand Ukrainian for you. Next, please, is the People's Deputy Kremen. I warn the national deputies that I will be forced to turn off the microphone when there are pre-election campaigns or breaches of the Rules. Thank you. Mr. Cream, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u75	Taras Kremen, People's Front. The People's Front political faction supports the amendment to Ukraine's Higher Education Act in part to provide benefits for children deprived of parental care as they enter higher education institutions in Ukraine. And in general, when we talk about modernizing Ukrainian education legislation, really the main issue in the agenda is whether or not to bring Ukraine's Higher Education Act as close as possible to the demands of time, to the labour market needs, in line with world standards and standards, including the standard of living and the quality of education. I would like to thank the Science and Education Committee of Alexander Spiowakovsky for his meaningful speech and for the protection of this bill. But I would like to remind you that the Higher Education Act requires us to introduce several other important parameters that we unanimously supported during our committee's retreat to Kharkiv, to the Harkow Police Department. This, of course, is to improve the funding model for higher education, which should not support our university community, but should provide quality education for the winners. The second important element is the measurement of the quality of education, and this should be a criterion that we should also ensure that higher education institutions are financed. And thirdly, the approach to European standards. I want to confirm that in this session room we have already expanded the category of benefits to our universities, and this in no way challenges the external independent evaluation system itself. But, at the same time, it needs to be improved, because the first ten years -- those were years when we were able to fight corruption when we went to higher education institutions, but, at the same time, the UNV did not solve the issue of migration of future students to other regions and, of course, to other countries. And it's only for all the graduates of Ukrainian universities to find their higher education in Ukrainian universities that will not give in to other European and world analogs. But at the same time, we need to maximize their level of knowledge and in general secondary education institutions, where, unfortunately, there are problems, including the quality of teaching Ukrainian language, literature, including in southern Ukraine. These are also questions related to the quality of the natural and mathematical cycle of discipline, and of course this is a question related to the low level of education, but we are working on this, including today on the committee, and with the quality of education in vocational and vocational education. That's why we support and encourage colleagues to be the only ones in support of changes to our law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u76	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you for following the Rules. And I would like to invite Mr. Schwerk, the representative of the Peter Dustenk faction, to present the position of this faction. John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u77	Please pass the word to Sporis Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u78	Thank you. And please welcome John Sporish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u79	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, this bill must be adopted today. And I think no one likes Alexander Volodymyrovich cares about fate, for the fate of our children, for the fate of all colleges, for the fate of secondary schools. So I want to give you an example. In my district there's this Chernobyl area and there's a school -- it's really a big school where the head of Anatoly Ivanovich is in his place, where the kids are learning, where the kids are working, where the kids are getting their education. I'll tell you, if we don't save high school or high school today, we won't have specialists, we won't have mechanics, we won't have brewers, we won't have cooks, we won't have all the middle-level specialists. So I think that, too, we need to keep high schools, because it's very, very important. But we're talking about orphans today, how to protect them. These orphans, where we give them benefits each year, are 21,000, as already told by the Deputy Minister of Social Policy, Alexander Churkin. And, indeed, it is also, and it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Social Policy to protect children's rights. On my committee, as the head of a subcommittee of the family, youth policy, and child, we deal with these issues all the time and make decisions unanimously because this is very, very important. I would also like to say for these 49,000 children today who are deprived of parental care. It is also vital that we give them some help. As a whole, on the scale of our country, it's probably a piece of paper. It's a small amount of money that's just going to sponsor these kids so they can learn to get an education so they can work. There are very few public places today, and we understand that very well. And so again, we have to give the opportunity to have these children who are both deprived of both parental rights and care, and also orphans, we have to protect this bill. And I think we should vote for him today. So I want to thank the Ministry of Social Policy for thanking the head of the Education Committee that they really care about these children. And I'm happy as a head. As again, like the committee that protects children’s rights, it is our committee, where I am indeed the head of the subcommittee of the family, of social policy, and of the child. Thank you very much. And let's support this bill, not go out again and talk about anything, about the elections we just heard, and just about everything that's the presidential election. Let's adopt laws, not pharaohs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u80	Thank you. Thank you for following the rules of the Rules and demonstrating a high political culture. Dear colleagues, there have been four only factions: the Opposition Block, the Radical Party of Laska, the faction of this party, the People's Front, and the BPP. I want to go to other groups and factions: Are there people who haven't been able to register? None. Then I'm asking you to sign up for this bill. Colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room so that we can vote for the bill. Please, National Deputy Dekhtyarchuk, I invite you to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Sergio Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u82	Please, Mr. Melnik, we invite you to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u83	Sergey Melnik, 187th District, Hmelnicky. First. I'd like to say, you know, I'm sorry to hear things from someone whose kids are learning abroad. But I do believe that we must support, above all, those children who are learning in the country and who need it. What are we talking about? The point is that we give free education to children without parental care and to those in their numbers. So this right is children of orphans, they have atolls, they have participants in combat. We extend this standard, as the people say, to orphans with living parents. And that's what we have to do. What I would like to pay attention to. If we really want to help these kids, the first thing I think, and especially I would like to go to the profile committee, to the Singerman's Alexander Volodymyrovich, is that I think we should do that, that these kids have this right not within the quota, and the costs have to follow these kids. Because these children are more territorially bound, and then we will be able to obtain this right in the territory. Next question. Today, for example, the Hmelnick district council has extended these standards to utilities. I know that the department of profile is always there against the utilities. But I think that these norms need to be extended to utilities, which will also allow for the expansion of this standard. And I want to remind you that maybe some people forgot when they said they were against utilities, but remember how they wanted to extend the rule to private institutions, and only because of the support of this private hall. So I think we can expand to community institutions, like we did in the field of vocational education, when we've identified the particular specialties that need it. So I'd like to ask the profile committee to take these two positions into account when I'm working on the second reading. I think it's going to be real support for those categories that are defined in the 44 articles: orphans, children deprived of parental care, persons in number of them, participants in combat, families of the dead, and people like them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u84	Thank you. And a distinguished colleague of the Radical Party's, Oleg Kuprienko, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u85	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. With great respect, me and all of our teams refer to Mr. Sieowakovsky. A wise, enlightened man, head of the committee. But I have a question. Who put the bill into the agenda today? Perhaps the leadership of the Supreme Council, which also applies to this political power. You didn't know there wouldn't be any people in the room on Wednesday? Will you run and button all over the room again? So it doesn't have to be 5 and 10 fingers on each hand. It's such an important bill to submit on Wednesday when there are no votes. That's why I'm talking to everyone who's involved in or should be involved in this bill. He's going down today. Who's going to crash? The coalition going to the rostrum, Mr. Sporish, tells, urges: let's vote. Respectfully. Thank you for calling. Let's vote. Empty chairs. Where's your faction? Where's your coalition? He goes to the rostrum as deputy minister of social policy and tells us that he's making changes to the Education Act. Yes, I understand, we're all experts in these fields. But where are the profile ministers, or at least the profile ministries, who would say, "Yes, we support that?" So what are we doing now? And at a time when, in fact, mentioning once again the Spiovakovsky, the representative of the Hersonian region. I remember very well in the 14th year, when 26 arthrigues from Chernigov, I took out the goal, the boss and the voice, and they put on a train in Chernigov to go to Herson to protect our Ukraine. I saw the equipment they were driving in. We collected everything in Chernigov to give the boys to go to the front. And today, instead of looking at how those same guys are being robbed today, when millions and millions are stealing from the cause, I would say yes, our current president, so now we have the Supreme Council on the fifth year of work read 25 articles of the Rules, where it is written that if not on the subject, the microphone will be turned off. So it's not a pre-election campaign on the part of another candidate who won't let you say what's boiling now, what's screaming in the country right now? A huge scandal, preying on our heroes, stealing. What children, what kind of education can we talk about in a country where fights are robbed, blood spilled on the front, protecting us from working here?Oh, my God! And look who was working. So again, by addressing those to whom this law applies. You named 90,000 people, look who's in the hall, who passed this bill, a very nice bill, a hall, and how it's going to collapse.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Rudik. In particular, I draw my attention to the 5th article, paragraph 5 of this article, which requires all our national deputies to comply with the rules of the Rules. And then from the BPP faction, of course, also the replica, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! Does it mean that today, Wednesday, in the 70th eyeroom, the Parliament until the end of April, or perhaps May, is not going to gather or discuss, not to try to adopt very important bills? The question is rhetorical. I think that everything needs to be done equally, and I think I have to come to the session, regardless of whether it's Wednesday, Friday, or maybe Tuesday. Some may remember that yesterday we discussed the draft amendment to the military statutes for the second half of our working day. And we didn't even have a vote to send these bills to the author. The maximum number of votes was 171. So the problem is not in the days but in the people who have made a commitment to work for the benefit of the Ukrainians and do not. And now essentially what's going on. The point is that we work in this room for five years, orphans have more rights than children deprived of parental care. Do you know when this bill was registered? You see, I think everyone has it. It was registered on 12.08.2016. If we listen to the logic of our colleagues that we should not consider on Wednesdays, we might not be considering it today. Of course, we need to support this bill because it is definitely good. But I would ask the presiding officer to put this question to discussion, but not to vote today, but to hope that they will be elected tomorrow. Because it's really embarrassing and embarrassing when good initiatives don't find support because of the personal irresponsibility of our colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u88	Thank you. Next performance. Please, National Deputy Sverk, please. And I can only support all the previous speeches that, colleagues, let's go back to the session room. It's wrong for us to have a working day and so few deputies in the session room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u89	In fact, I would like to pay attention to how many people are in the hall today. And from my point of view, this is the biggest flaw in this convening of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because from my point of view, the very small number of job visits by the people's deputies is the main problem with this convening of the Supreme Council. And all the other problems are derivative. Because when there are no people to vote on that bill, which everyone or almost everyone agrees to vote for, that is what happens. So, honourable colleagues, who are in the hall, I respectfully appeal to you and ask you all to vote in favour of this bill, which is currently under consideration. And I'm addressing, perhaps, those national MPs who aren't in the hall, but who are watching the broadcast today. Colleagues, let's be at work and let's work on Tuesdays and Wednesdays and Thursdays and Fridays, because these are our jobs. Thank you. I urge you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u90	I thank you so much for your performance. I'm also joining the petitions of all colleagues from different factions, but with one point: colleagues, let's go back to the session room. Please, Mikhail Golovko, you are welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u91	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte, 164 constituency. Of course, we will vote in favour of this bill, because the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union supports it, realizing that it is relevant, important and really protects the interests of our children, orphans, children deprived of parental care. But I'd like to face the problem that it's really our duty to protect such children, but the greatest responsibility of the state is to create conditions for as few orphans and children as possible to be deprived of parental care in our society. What about the state, and what does Parliament do to make sure that our families are raised in the family, so that our children learn about parental love? After all, when children are raised, they experience psychological trauma, and there will be a state victory when there are no orphans in the country, and children will really be raised in these families. And even if that happens, the child loses his parents, according to the customs we once had in Ukrainian traditions, such children were taken by their closest relatives, taken by their brothers, sisters, aunts, uncles, and, accordingly, that the family cared for them, and they were strong family ties. Today, unfortunately, we see the destruction of the Ukrainian family, and we see how aggressively today, through the media, the propaganda of violence, the propaganda of drug abuse, and the propaganda of alcoholism. And today, the sad thing is that in most children who are deprived of parental care, they suffer loss from living parents because their parents were asleep, their parents had deteriorated. What about the state? And that's exactly what the state's going to do, and that's exactly what it's going to promote. And so today, as parliamentarians, in Parliament, we would have to create conditions at the legislative level to protect the Ukrainian family so that they, our children, can be brought up in our traditions to be brought up in parental education. And then there will be respect for our parents, then, indeed, our parents today will know what it is. So is love and respect from children. Sadly, though, we have found that propaganda is quite different. So I urge you to also draw attention to creating conditions. It's not to fight the consequences, it's to fight the reasons. And the reasons are that we have to have a really strong Ukrainian family. And one more thing. As for the protection of professions and the conditions that are now really destroying vocational and technical education. I mean, my friends, it's a big threat to the existence of the Ukrainian state. Today, jobs are completely eliminated, and Ukrainians are moving out of the country in a mass way. In fact, it is also a nation’s policy to destroy the Ukrainian family because their parents are going abroad and their children are left without education, alone with problems. And of course, this puts them at risk of going the wrong way in life. So I still urge the State to focus on the key problems and not on the consequences, but on the reasons. Thank you. We will uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u92	Thank you. Colleagues, this is the closing act. I very much ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies into the hall. Please inform the Supreme Council Secretariat that in three minutes we are moving on to the decision-making process, and ask everyone to take up their jobs. Please, Krivenko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u93	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Of course, we support this bill. And I support my colleagues' calls to move the vote to tomorrow. And it is vital that there is a clear understanding in society that today there is artificially imposed and a conflict between, for example, parents and teachers. We have, on the one hand, shown that they beat up a teacher who is a homage and is unacceptable, on the other hand, parents create groups where they discuss which teachers are bad, which teachers are defeated. And this is a situation that needs to be resolved. We need to hold a dialogue, perhaps on the basis of a profile committee, with Mr. Spivakowski, we need to collect associations. I've just seen the head of the Father's Association from Mr. Twin. And the problem is completely mature and oblivious. We're actually building barricades: on the one hand, those for teachers, on the other hand, those who criticize them. These are all -- both of them -- are Ukrainians, all of them need to be united. We need to raise clearly the issue of domestic violence. That nation, which does not beat children at home in the family, cultivates completely different citizens who respect the truth, not the power. These are the societies where domestic violence, for example Sweden, is largely eliminated. It is vital that we raise the prestige of the teacher’s work. And in this regard, I thank those colleagues who signed a bill yesterday on the extension of teachers, on all teachers: whether it's a technicum, whether it's a university, it's a scholarship for the prestige of teaching work, and I'm also going to ask the committee to look at it as quickly as possible. I know that at 2:30 today you're considering a bill that really will take care of vocational and technical education. I also ask that we take him out as soon as possible for approval. And I'll give you a call from the staff of vocational and technical education, from the profession of the Lviv, where I've been to the speech and their discussions, which call for all decisions to be taken as quickly as possible by the Supreme Council so that we can preserve vocational and technical education, because it's a huge chain. Dear colleagues, I urge you to address your colleagues by faction, by group, all two of you in Parliament are present and will vote that we do not fail this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u94	Thank you. Colleagues, the closing word is the First Deputy Head of the Spiowakovsky Committee. One minute will be enough, one minute? Please. One.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please see that we have hundreds of children from orphans who have lost their parental care. Look, do you see them? So we don't see it, and they don't see us in our future. Dear colleagues, look, on April 10th, there will be parliamentary hearings on issues just as well as balanced development of human capital. I invite all of you. We don't have to do exactly how we do it, and I agree with that, but we need to find a whole system of state policies that will ensure our future sustainable development not abroad: not in Poland, not in Slovakia, not in Germany, here, in Ukraine. It must be a state policy, and hundreds of these eyes are looking at us and our semicircular hall. But we have to find the strength and vote, because, frankly, it's a shame in front of these kids that we haven't found a solution in 2.5 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u96	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, 2.5 years old. It's a sentence for all of us. We're all going to the election, so please think about what you're going to go with. With that attitude. Dear colleagues, find the resources, call your friends, from the WFP, the People's Front, the Self-Help, the Fatherland, our colleagues from the Radical Party, the Opposition, please, 226 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to making a decision. At the invitation to move, I would like to stress that it is impossible to postpone consideration. They chose the law by which all the factions gave a plus, they all gave a plus. And at the same time, we see a situation. So, colleagues. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote now. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 44 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (5023). Please vote and please support. Vote. [[13:16:04]] For 121 Next. Return to the committee for re-read. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:16:28]] For 116 And the last. The subject of the legislative initiative should be returned to work. Please vote, please support. [[13:16:46]] For 111 Sadly, the bill of Law 5023 has been rejected. And, colleagues, the next question we have is ratification. I don't think we can put him at risk, I think everyone will agree. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Qatar on the avoidance of double taxation. I'm sure everyone will agree with me that we can't go into his consideration right now, as we don't have the right to put him at risk. And I want to remind you that today, according to our tradition, we have the opportunity to start consideration of the next law is the draft Mediation Act (3665). Go through the paperwork today to do everything possible tomorrow, mobilize the hall and adopt this law. And that's actually what we've got to do today: speak up, and tomorrow we'll move on to making a decision. And I hope that tomorrow, a little bit of everyone will put off their political emotions and everyone will be in their jobs, and I stress, in their jobs. Because unfortunately, there are only a few factions in their jobs right now, and there are no others in the hall, and there are others in the elections. Let me remind you, this is our workplace during the adoption of laws. And, colleagues, I urge everyone to be in the hall tomorrow. Tomorrow, I remind you, we are going to one of the most important laws in this session -- the State Language Act, the protection of Ukrainian. And that's why I'm asking everyone to be as mobilized as possible tomorrow. And now I'm announcing the move to the draft Mediation Act (No. 3665). This law is discussed in a second reading. It has a lot of rights, it's almost four hundred rights. We will be able to look at them today, leave a portion for tomorrow, and mobilize the hall tomorrow, and vote. And I think this is going to be our best service for Parliament. And I invite the head of the committee's committee on legal policy and justice, Alexeiev Igor Sergiyovich, to report. Please. Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u99	Thank you. The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, has prepared a table for your consideration for the second reading of the Mediation Bill (registration number 3665). It's given to everyone. We can start looking at the amendments. I will briefly generalize the committee’s work, which was carried out carefully, professionally on the subject. We met on a number of occasions after this bill was drafted, a working group was set up on a committee where all interested national MPs were involved, a large expert environment. And as a result of the work of the working group and after that subcommittee, we have generalized 396 amendments to the legislative initiative. Of these, Committee 73 counted 68, partly 68, 43 and 212 were rejected. Also before this bill is the conclusion of the General Legal Authority. I want to warn you right now that we're working with the legal department, and there will be some editorial clarifications tomorrow, taking into account the comments of the General Legal Administration, that I have read this bill to improve, taking into account a number of factors, in particular, that separate legislation has been adopted later than we've passed the second reading table, and we just couldn't physically work out this bill to take into account the latest legislative changes. The committee recommended the adoption of the bill as a whole in the second reading. Ready to report to the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u100	Thank you, Your Honor. And now we're moving on to the amendments. If I don't notice someone, you'll talk loud about it. Please change number 1 – The River of Alexus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u101	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. I thank the authors -- Skrum colleagues, other colleagues -- who signed under this very important committee bill that worked on it. He needs to be taken. I hope there's a vote for him tomorrow. For me, this bill is also important that this is a judicial solution to cases that help people without resorting to court is mediation. I've also introduced a bill -- and I hope it will also be considered in the conference room -- of an energy ombudsman as a plausible way of settling energy disputes for small consumers at the expense of the state. It's my turn. A more concise preamble is proposed, from which the concept of "service" has been removed, among other things, in order to avoid problems of positioning mediation as an exclusive service, the more paid. The double term "conflict (or dispute)" called attention to the fact that mediation extends not only to a dispute that has reached trial, but also to any conflict and relationship. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u102	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleague, I would like to point out that, indeed, your revision was correct if you compare the first reading. We've actually taken it into account with another correction. If you look at the right column, all the warnings are taken, all the arguments you're talking about are not "service," there's no double terms. And the proposed, indeed, concise preamble, which takes into account all the suggestions from colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u104	Thank you. Colleagues, please identify yourself after the first amendment. [[13:22:53]] For-51 Thank you. The correction is being rejected. Next up, 2nd Amendment. The author does not insist. Debtenko, 18th. Don't insist. 18, more faithfully, I'm sorry. Linc, 22nd. Don't insist. Sidorovich, 32nd. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u105	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. It's very important in the application of the new institution, and we're introducing a new institution in judicial, non-judicial trials, trial trials, yes, it's very proper to determine who will be involved in the training of the relevant persons who will have the right to engage. such persons who will be conducting the mediation. That is why, in my view, it is important to set out more precisely what institutions will be able to do so. And in my amendment, I pointed out that these should be "organizations that will provide mediation -- individuals and businesses, institutions, private property organizations, as well as vocational and technical higher education institutions and postgraduate education institutions of any form of property that are involved in organizational and technical preparation of the mediation process." The term "all legal persons of any form of property," in my view, is too broad an interpretation that can lead to some problems in the preparation of persons who will continue to engage in mediation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u106	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u107	In preparing this bill for our second reading, we consulted the expert environment very much. And one of the key philosophies of this bill is not overloading the text with unnecessary regulation or overloading the text with excessive normative positions. We've gone from being able to make the positions that relate to the definition of concepts and terms as much as possible a minimum. And in the context of the definition of who can prepare mediators and do professional training, we have this in another article that directly regulates the issue of access to a profession. We just decided not to duplicate those positions. This rule is found in another article of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u108	Thank you. I'm asking you to make 32 adjustments, dear colleagues. [[13:25:45.]] For-47 The correction is being rejected. Next, please, I missed the amendment, 25th People's Deputy Schrome. It was taken into account editorially. Mrs. Olena, are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u109	I insist. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u110	Please, 25 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u111	Good afternoon! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. I would like to use this amendment and insist on voting because it defines the very term "mediator." And I would also like to explain to the Ukrainians what this is. It's a foreign word, it's not always understood, but it's actually one of the non-judicial methods of resolving disputes, conflicts in a state that's very common in Britain, the United States, France, European countries, and it's unloading courts. It's not an arbitral court, it's not an arbitral judge, it's a special man-mediator who's trained in negotiating art, which is often known in legislation that can settle conflicts. And we have special requirements for this person. Therefore, it is vital that Ukraine does not reload its courts. To this day, courts are terribly overcrowded and petty disputes and disputes that can be settled judicially. It is our duty to the European Union, including to settle this issue in this law. And I thank all those who have joined in drafting this important bill and preparing it for the second reading. There was preparation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u112	Thank you. You don't insist, you just stressed what terminology is about mediation. Okay. Let's move on. 39 repairs, Sidorovich. Don't insist. 45th. It's not yours. Yeah, now, now, I'm looking at what we still have. Now, I'm moving just to her. If no one's there. 53rd. Please, Sidorovich, 53rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u113	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Indeed, courts are overburdened with judicial conduct, which certainly affects access to justice. But if we look at case statistics, criminal cases and administrative cases, they're the least of them. And when we're talking about the institution of the mediator, it seems to me that at the very beginning to expand the scope of this law, to allow mediation in criminal proceedings and in administrative offences is premature at this stage. It's very important that we don't comment on this institution's implementation because I want to compare it. A very good, correct idea was in its time with the arbitral courts. But because they were over-authorized, they started doing sometimes bad things, which they underestimated the right and the right institution. So at this point, I propose to exclude mediation from the scope of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u114	Thank you. Please comment now, Mr. Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u115	For your proposal to remove and define a more narrow circle of spheres where mediation can take place. In fact, in preparing this proposal, we were out of the rules of legislation in force. For example, the provisions of the 469 Criminal Procedure Code, you know very well where there are rules for a reconciliation agreement and certain cases where a reconciliation agreement is allowed. The reconciliation agreement is in clearly defined cases. These are not crimes that are serious, especially serious, they're crimes of small gravity, and it's working now. And in fact, the criminal process law, in fact, allows reconciliation, and in this case we're just saying that such a subject, such a peacemaker, can be a medium within the meaning of the Ukrainian Mediation Act. So I don't think we're creating any new mechanisms in this part than we are now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u116	I'd like to make my mark on this amendment, 53rd. [[13:30:19]] For-44 This amendment is not accepted as a hallowed session. We're moving on. What's that? 52. I'm sorry, I missed. Yes, it's an amendment to the people's deputies of Alexeyev. And I was just upset by your colleague in the rostrum that he didn't raise his hand. It will be presented by the Anointed One. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u117	Andrey Pomazanov, People's Front faction. To be honest, this amendment of mine refers to the previous reporter, Mr. Sidorovich. And I also think as the author of this amendment that I think it's impossible for an institution today, such as mediation, a new fully-fledged institution for our state, to create and empower it, right now, both in administrative and criminal matters. Because, as of today, we know, even some law enforcement agencies can't give the system criminal leadership, and we're giving today authority, the possibility of settlement, as if the judicial settlement of criminal disputes, including disputes, to some mediators who still do. To this day we don't understand how we're going to teach them, how they're going to be required, and how it's going to be done in general, and yes, east we just give them the authority to deal with criminal conduct. So I'm still asking you to vote, support the amendment -- and exclude criminal and administrative conduct from the scope of the law's mediation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u118	Thank you. Please vote on 52 amendments. Please make up your mind, colleagues. [[13:32:06]] For-45 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 57. Please, Mrs. Alona Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u119	Thank you. My amendment also refers to a similar issue – this is the subject of mediation. And I'm with other colleagues who signed this amendment, and we're proposing that in the criminal conduct that my colleague Amazanov and Mr. Ruslan Sidorovich spoke about, the mediation can only be carried out with regard to the restoration of the violated right or the way in which the damage was compensated. Although I actually know that those mediators who were in the working group who were very serious about doing this with the head of the subcommittee and with the committee themselves are saying that, in principle, it is necessary to regulate mediation as little as possible. And so far, the norm is that mediation can only be in criminal offenses and crimes of small and medium gravity, or in the criminal conduct of a form of private accusation. But, really, it's a discussion norm, and in different countries, the scope of application varies. I would really like to thank you for such fruitful work and for the Ukrainian Academy of Mediation, and for the Institute of Media, and for the committee, and for the head of the subcommittee, and for the head of the committee that studied this bill over the course of the year, tried to make it better. I wish we hadn't lost him.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u120	Are you finished, Mr. Helena? Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u121	About your amendment and your initiative. What are the risks and risks of some rejection of this proposal that you have proposed? In fact, compensation for damage, it may be the subject of mediation, but in such an editorial way absolutely -- in all cases, in absolutely all crimes. In fact, serious, especially serious crimes involving life, health, and damage management could be the subject of meditation. And that would kind of upset society that there's some kind of attempt to stall the process. We went in the context of philosophy 469 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which allows for a reconciliation agreement that will be approved by the court. And in this situation, the mediator is actually only contributing to the formation, and in the subsequent court, the approval of this agreement is still going to test the voluntary disclosure of the parties, and whether the legislative standards are respected when the agreement is concluded. So the position of the committee was the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u122	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote for the amendment that we are considering right now is 57 amendments. [[13:34:58]] For-38 Let's move on. This amendment is not accepted. Next up, 58th, Anointed. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Coopercone insists? 67th. Don't insist. Semenha, 68th. Excuse me, please. Let's move on. Sidorovich, 98th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u123	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self - Help Unit. Colleagues, we've actually voted a lot in this room on bills that are called upon to protect children's rights more effectively, the rights of minors, of minors. And in this case, this amendment, in my view, is very important. What do I propose in my amendment? I propose that in part three of article 6, after the words "efficiencies" add the words "and for the mandatory participation of a legitimate representative." I am convinced that the question of mediation, where, by the way, a mediator may not necessarily be a person with legal education, must necessarily be involved with a legal representative of a minor or a minor in order to guarantee, in fact, the observance of his rights under the conditions of agreement, because in the end, a minor or a minor will still not be able to sign any agreement. So I think it's important to add these words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u124	Thank you, Your Honor. And I'd like to make 98 adjustments. Please. [[13:37:25]] For-42 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 104, Anointed. Don't insist. Sidorovich, 118th. You will? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u125	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. The amendment is about what it is. I will continue to have the following amendments, which are called upon to prevent a possible conflict of interest. The amendment is as follows: to add to article 7 part four of this content: "If the parties have not agreed otherwise, the mediator may not speak to the arbitral judge in relation to a dispute which was either the subject of mediation or in relation to another dispute which arose from the same legal relationship." That is, to prevent, unless the parties have agreed on such an event. If not, so that the mediator would not be able to take part in the resolution of the dispute before the arbitral tribunal, where he once was a mediator and was unable to help resolve the dispute. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u126	Thank you. Please be determined by this amendment, Your Honor. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u127	The committee suggests that this amendment should be rejected, considering that in part three we are addressing the issue of avoiding conflicts of interest in the activities of mediators.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u128	I'd like to make a statement. I'm reminding you, this is the 118th amendment. Right? I'd like to make a statement. [[13:39:16]] For-37 Correction is not accepted by the session hall. 127 amendments, as well as the national MP Sidorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u129	The bill contains article 8, which says that the mediator should be neutral and impartial. At the same time, my point of view, based on how we regulate issues in procedural codes, in other legislative acts that raise issues of conflict of interest, it is necessary to add the article to the second part, where it is stated that "the mediator is obliged to inform the parties of all existing or potential conflicts of interest also known to him in this matter, which may provoke questions about the neutrality of the mediator." I continue to point out circumstances that make it impossible for the mediator to be neutral. The non-writing of this bill, in my view, may cause situations in which conflicts of interest will not be detected, it will not fall under the definitions defined in the bill, which in turn will make it impossible to implement the same agreement on the completion of the mediation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u130	Thank you. I'm also asking you, dear colleagues, to decide on this amendment, which we're discussing, I'm reminding you, 127th. [[13:40:47]] For-39 The amendment is not accepted. Please turn on the Anointing microphone. I already promised him. What kind of correction did we miss?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u131	Andrey Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Edit 104, you missed, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u132	No, no. I called her.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u133	104th? I'm sorry, maybe I didn't hear. If you can, look, it's a very simple correction. It's rejected. It is intended solely to record in this legislative act the rights and capabilities of all parties in the process, namely to write down, add a new paragraph, a new part of the fourth: "The parties to mediation have equal rights and obligations. It is forbidden to discriminate against the sides of mediation on any grounds, including race, skin color, political, religious and other beliefs, sex, ethnic." - and so on. And "the mediator in mediation is obliged to provide the parties with equal opportunities for conflict resolution." Why write this down? This is a declaratory rule so that we do not allow any violation of the rights of the parties in this law. If we are already saying that we grant the mediator almost judicial powers, we should also talk about ensuring that he has the full rights of the mediation parties. So I ask you to vote and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u134	Please identify 104 amendments. But I can see that there is a wish for both the author of the amendment and a representative of the committee to comment on it. Please, Mr. Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u135	Again, by fully dividing the position of our colleague, we decided not to overload the text with general rules in the drafting of the bill. We understand that all of these warnings and all of these prescriptions are in the Constitution, the rules of the Constitution of Direct Action, and they don't carry any more new regulation than what is already in the Constitution and are already fixed, and guarantees of equality and non-discrimination on various grounds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u136	Thank you for that explanation. And I ask you to vote, Your Honor, for amendment 104. [[13:43:02]] For-36 The correction is being rejected. And the next amendment is Mrs. Scrum. What's that? We'll get to her. I'll see if there's anything else. No, there isn't. Please, it has been edited, 133 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u137	Thank you. Scrooge, Alona. The Fatherland faction. It's really been taken into account editorially. If possible, I'd like to take it fully into account. It refers to what the mediator should be, indeed, an independent, completely neutral person, and to refrain from holding a mediation under circumstances that make his neutrality impossible. I understand that the notion of conflict of interest has already been settled in the working group with the participation of both the mediators and the head of the committee reporting the law and the committee, but I would like to explain. This is one of the last rights I'm lifting today, my own. I would like to explain, including the Ukrainians, who the mediator is. He is a special authorized person who is trained and should be truly neutral independent. It can't be a judge, it can't be a person who's been dismissed from the judge's office, for example for some warning or charge of a corruption offense, or for committing a corruption offense. It can't be a civil servant, it can't be a man who's got an unrequited or unrequited trial. It must be a really neutral professional mediator who's interested in settling a conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear Mrs.Alona, if now, here's what the reporter tells me, we're going to go back to voting on this amendment in your original version, it's just not going to get the required number of votes right now, and not put it on. You just explained that your position, it's slightly different from that of the committee, and you think that the editorial amendment was not considered sufficiently complex in your opinion of this terminology. Thank you for not breaking the terminology, because the committee thinks it would be worse. 142nd. Anointed, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u139	Andrey Pomazanov, People's Front faction. You know, colleagues, this is a very misunderstood position of committee because I propose changes to part two of article 9, which states that "intermediate participants, including the mediator, as well as persons involved in the organization of the mediation process." Doesn't it make any sense who these people are? Is that the driver's office? Who are those copycats? Who are they going to be, these people? I suggest you change that to "mediator and other participants in mediation" and stop. This list cannot be extended here, it will be quite difficult to understand what it is that those who can access the information that the mediator receives and who are then obliged or not to make public. So I would suggest that we don't make such wide spectrums for manipulations in the future, so we clearly say that it's just the mediator and the participants in the mediation. All of it. Stop. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u140	Guys, I'd like to make this right. I'm stressing that we have 142 amendments. [[13:46:29]] For-35 Thank you. 35-yes. Let's move on. The next amendment, this amendment is being rejected, although the committee worked very well on the table of amendments to the second reading, and wanted us to support this important bill. 146th is the same as the Anointed. Don't insist. Let's move on, fellows. I'm just looking for amendments that are rejected. 170 amendments are just like the Anointed Ones. 170, don't insist. Okay. And 172nd. Don't you insist? Sidorovich, 173rd. Are you insisting? 173rd. 173rd, please, Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u141	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. A very important point, which is regulated by article 16: is the order of the conduct and termination of the mediation that relates to the treaty. I propose in the third part of article 12, the first sentence is to put it in the following wording: "Before the beginning of the mediation, the parties and the mediator make an agreement on the holding of the mediation. The mediation begins on the day of the conclusion of the mediation contract." Why is that so, so important, in my view? Because it is important to bind two events: the beginning of the mediation process and the time of the treaty. Since, as the committee now suggests, the subject of regulation suggests, these things are not tied in at the time, and there may be problems, at which point the mediation actually began. Because, in fact, communication with the same mediator, it should begin before the contract is concluded. Because it's clear that before you make a deal, you need to talk to the mediator. So please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u142	Thank you. Will there be an explanation from the committee? No, it's not. Let's go. We're just voting. 173rd Amendment, colleagues. Please. [[13:49:08]] For-32 The correction is being rejected. We're moving on. Sidorovich, 198th Amendment. Ruslan! Mr. Ruslan, Your Honor. 198. Yes, Your Honor, don't distract our chief expert from your mediation faction. 198th, please amend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u143	In the second part of article 13, after the words, after the words "individual" and before the words "court or" delete the words "criminal conduct." I mean, I would insist, at least at this point, that we rule out mediation in the criminal process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u144	Yes, I'd like you to identify yourself for this amendment, 198th Colleagues. The next, by the way, is 199th, so that's Sidorovich's repair. We're sure you're not laughing from the media. [[13:50:23]] For-29 Yeah, 29 for it. The correction is being rejected. Are you insisting on 199? No, Mr. Ruslan insists. And 200 doesn't insist. And 201 doesn't insist either. Okay. Okay. Dear Mr. Ruslan, 210th. You don't insist either. And 11th, too. And Alona Shkrum insists on 208th. Please, Mrs. Aloni Shkrum's microphone. It's been taken into account editorially, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u145	Thank you. Schrome Allona, "The Fatherland" faction. I do not insist on voting, but I must explain my position and the position of those national deputies who submitted this amendment. This amendment applies to the so - called mediation agreement. Because the mediation, unlike, for example, the court settlement of disputes by a judge, can be conducted at any stage at the consent of the parties to a court hearing, not just before the trial begins in fact. And it can also be done over and over again if it's stipulated in the agreement. In fact, the covenant identifies the rights and obligations of the parties to whom they have come in contact with the mediator. And this amendment, it speaks of the legal significance of such an agreement, as a result of this mediation, and how it can be implemented, whether it is mandatory or not. And it's this amendment that we've been working on to make this agreement more than legally meaningful when it's done by the party and the parties to this agreement. But I don't insist on voting. And I agree with the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u146	Thank you for your clarification. Mrs. Alona doesn't insist on voting, so we move on. Mr. Sidorovich, 210th. 211th. What's that? 246. Now I'm going to see 246 if we have any more amendments. 240th. Please. I will see if we have any adjustments that colleagues may insist on. One minute, please. We're moving. We're on the 230th right now. 240 revisions. This is the amendment of the people’s amendment of Alexeieva and of the Anointed One. Please, Mr. Anointed's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u147	Andrey Pomazanov, People's Front faction. The 240 amendment refers to the fact that who, in fact, cannot be a mediator according to this legislative initiative. An editorial in the first reading stated that the mediator could not be a person who had been released from office as judge, prosecutor, investigator. I propose that the word "investigative" be replaced by the words "law enforcement officer" because there are many positions in law enforcement agencies and not just investigators. And if a person was released from the body for any disciplinary violations, no matter what position he was in, he can't do mediation. So I'm asking you to support 240 amendments so that we don't allow such violations and such blunders in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u148	Thank you. Please comment by the co-author and committee heads. Not the head, but the representative of the committee, I'm sorry, because I'm here to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u149	With regard to this amendment and the drafting of the bill in general. During my presentation, I once again said that the legal authorities had made their comments and their analysis of the bill. There are some reasonable suggestions. I said that tomorrow, if we went to the final vote, I would read some adjustments and take into account the conclusion of the judiciary. In this situation, we will also take this into account to remove any contradictions and to make a unanimous practice of who can and cannot be a mediator.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u150	Thank you. Please identify yourself on this amendment. [[13:54:43]] For-35 Thank you, colleagues. This correction is being rejected. And the next thing we know, our colleague, Mr. Sidorovich, insisted on correcting it. Excuse me, 241 at once. I missed it. Mr. Amazan's microphone, please. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u151	Andrey Pomazanov, People's Front faction. It's just the next 241 revision, and it's also my authorship. And you know, I think without that right, this law, in principle, has no right to life. It applies, again, to someone who cannot be a mediator according to this legislative initiative. I propose that we complete a new point that the mediator cannot be a person who has committed corruption or corruption-related offences within three years of the date of the commission. I think that the person who is a corrupter, according to whom is a document that recognizes her as corrupt, that she has committed a corruption offence, can't do it: neither is a lawyer nor an investigator, nor is a mediator, according to the new legislation. Therefore, I am very much asking, either editorially or now by voting, to include this amendment. And without this amendment, we cannot allow such a law to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u152	Thank you. Please explain to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u153	I'd just like to see a colleague. If we go back to the previous paragraph, part three, where it's stated that you can't be a mediator of a person who's been released from the office of a judge, a prosecutor, an investigator, we're going to correct "for violating an oath, for committing a corruption offence." This rule is in the law, simply united with another point, so there is no point.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u154	Thank you. Thank you. What are we doing? We don't vote. You just insisted. Colleagues, look, we're definitely going to have a summary of our discussion tomorrow. I think if there are any such principled things that need to be taken into account, the room will listen to the committee. Next is 244. I take it Alexei's and the Anointed don't insist. And the last amendment we're going to consider with you today is Mr. Sidorovich's amendment 246. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u155	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. In fact, my amendment refers to the amendment of Anointed One. And I want to focus on the fact that I don't agree in this context with the rapporteur for the bill. And I insist that not only the judges, but not only the correspondingly limited circle of those who are listed, who have committed corruption, cannot be mediators. In my view, any person who has committed an offence involving corruption has no right to be a mediator. And once again, the question is how clean we're going to make this profession at the entrance, how much social trust in this institution is going to work, how effective it's going to work. To undermine trust in this institution -- and if corruption gets there, it'll definitely undermine trust -- it'll just underestimate all the work that's been done for the last few years so that this bill can get into the session room. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u156	Thank you. I ask you to determine for Amendment 246. And, colleagues, we emphasize from the Presidium that this is the last amendment that we are considering today in the context of the discussion of the Mediation Act. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:58:33]] For-39
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-27-m0.u157	The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, we need to figure out what we're going to start with tomorrow, I'll count it out. 248. From 250. 250th. From what? Let's go from 251. So 251-a, Alona Shkrum. I'm just gonna have a request, Mrs. Helena, to be there at 10 o'clock, okay? - in the hall. Reporter, I also urge you to be in the hall tomorrow at 10 o'clock so we can get through quickly. And, colleagues, I'm very counting on tomorrow's political emotions to drop a little bit -- and we're going back to the legislative work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, actually, to what we've been elected by the Ukrainian people's deputies. I want to remind you, tomorrow we're starting to consider a large, impeccable Act on State Language, and I'm asking everyone to stop any election tours tomorrow and be in the sessional room for work. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, I'm expecting everyone in the hall. I wish everyone good work on the committees. And this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed.
