ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! Please take your seats. Prepare to register. Let's get started. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please prepare for registration. Let's get started. Ladies and gentlemen, we're registering. [[10:07:37]] 391 Ukrainian national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is our colleague's birthday, national deputy Sergio Anatoliyovich Minka, MP for the Future. Hello! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, according to part three of article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations on Friday, we have 30 minutes to announce the parliamentary requests. Yet, we came to the fore with a request from two factions for a break with a replacement for the performance. The word is given to Vakarcuk Svetoslav Ivanovich, the deputy faction of the Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u2	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Good morning, Your Honor! There was a meeting yesterday, a joint meeting of two committees -- in foreign affairs and Euro-integration, where the Foreign Minister stated that he had personally agreed to the so-called Steinmeier formula, which many of us are talking about in the last days. I would like to remind you that this formula is a free treatment of the Minsk Accords, which says that we are committed to holding elections in temporarily occupied areas after obtaining security. Nothing concrete about the fact that we're going to get this security is there. This disturbing statement was refuted in an interview by one of the chiefs of the "Serve of the People" faction, who said literally that the Foreign Minister had made a mistake, that was not the case. I and our entire faction are concerned by the diversity of views among people who today determine the position of authority on international issues. I also read today's blog by the distinguished head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where he calls future arrangements a new formula, the Green formula, which, again, has words about the withdrawal of troops, security, the obligation to hold elections throughout Ukraine, including the territory of the occupied Donbas, but there is no word of how this security will be achieved. And I have a simple and clear question, and I asked it on the committee, and I want to ask it now. Tell me, are you going to organize security without getting Ukraine's control over the border? If so, it is the interests of Ukraine and the way to the loss of sovereignty. If not, we demand that the Foreign Minister, the President's team, all those who are officially pursuing foreign policy today, be clear: we will hold elections only if we are given control over all of Ukraine's territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the announcement of parliamentary inquiries. The word is Condratiuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear fellows! A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Major, Shahova, Sukhova) to the President of Ukraine Colleagues, first we have to vote in favour of the request by at least one third of the national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council, and then by sending a request to the President of Ukraine by a majority of the constitutional composition, i.e. 226 votes in favour. Dear colleagues, there is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of the request of the National Deputies (Major, Shahova, Sukhova) for the President of Ukraine to prevent a break in the heating season of 2019-20 in the city of Zolota and the city of the Mountain Lugansk region. Please be supportive. [[10:12:12]] For 217 Colleagues, vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:12:35]] For 211 The decision did not reach 226 votes. So let's move on to the question-reading. Questions: From Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Health, Health and Health, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Odessa District Public Administration on the use of measures, effective measures to ensure the financing of medical facilities. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv District State Administration, temporarily acting as Director of the Department of Roads, Transport and Communications of the Lviv Regional Administration, Head of the Lviv Road Service in the Lviv Region, on the unsatisfying operational status of the road of the district value of Jablounka-Požany and the need for repairing the bridge and road in a 0.2 km area. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv District State Administration, temporarily acting as Director of the Department of Roads, Transport and Communications of the Lviv Regional Administration, Head of the Lviv Road Service in the Lviv Region for the repair of the T-18006 Rivet-Miletin-Brescečko-Busk-Peremisljani road. Alexia Zmerenecki to Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the underfunding of Shepetovka’s health care facilities. Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Community and Territory Development of Ukraine, the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Odessa District State Administration on the need for a comprehensive review of the collective appeal of residents of the village of Karnalyevak Bilgrod-Dnistrovsk district of Odessa to carry out construction work on the Alkaly River. Anastasia Lashenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for the Implementation of State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Utilities, Director General of the Public Association for Gas Supply and Gasification Lubnigaz, on the threat of the start of the heating season in educational establishments of the Orzic Region of Poltava. Dmitry Black to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of accommodation for residents of the city of Yellow Waters of the Dnipropetrov region and adjacent populated areas by central water supply and water supply, the reconstruction of the water supply network of the utility "Yellowwater Water Channel" of the Dnipropetrov District Council. Dmitry Black to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing in 2020 of the State Programme for Radiation and Social Protection of the population of the city of Yellow Water for 2013-2022. Igor Guza to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the issue of the continuous provision of insulin to diabetic citizens. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, on the need to resolve the issue of the issue of the payment of premiums by coal enterprises to the UK Pension Fund for the purpose of unlocking social payments to miners. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of a South Center for Radiation Therapy based on Herson's district cancer dispenser. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of clean-up facilities in the city of Berislav in the region of Hersson. Valery of Kolucha to the Head of Service. Ukraine, the heads of the Kyiv District State Administration on the legality of the activities of the Society's alcohol industry, with additional responsibility for the Uzin Sugar Combine, because of the threat of catastrophic environmental consequences in the city of Uzin Kyiv district and the verification of their arbitrary documentation. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the accumulation of major poverty problems in Ukraine. Vladimir Ivanov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the need to change the administration of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from 10 July 2019 and to redistribute the subsidies from the State budget to the budget of the Tavrican Rural Unit of the Kakhov District of the Hersonian Region. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of non-compliance by the institutions of the Pension Fund of Ukraine with the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of August 22, 2018 No. 649. Alexander Gerega to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine for the establishment of individual heating systems in houses. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister on the urgent resolution of issues in the coal sector, the allocation of the necessary funding to ensure the continued operation of state-owned industrial enterprises, the social protection of workers and the payment of wages. Groups of National Deputies (Major, Shahova, Sukhova) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of the heating season 2019-2020 in the city of Zolota and the city of Gyrski Lugansk. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for Violations of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms of Man and Citizen, as well as Intervention in Business Activities of Workers of the U.S.F.F. Marijana Bezugola to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of criminal conduct Romana Ivanisov to the Head of Service. Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, said to be investigating a number of criminal conduct. Vladimir Aresonkova to the finance minister of Ukraine regarding the underfunding of payments to the population affected by the CHAES accident. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine to solve the problem of repairing the road of local importance in the territory of the Slovenian united territorial community. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the violation of the requirements of legislation for the adoption of Ukrainian children. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on eliminating discrimination against orphans and children deprived of parental care who are trained in higher education institutions of the Ministry of Education. Paul Jakimka to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Head of the State Geology and Geology Service of Ukraine, Kharkiv City Head, Head of the National Police Directorate of Kharkiv Region, Prosecutor of Kharkiv Region, Head of the Kharkiv District Public Administration for the conduct of a review of the work of the Harkiv Coking Plant and the Termolaif PRAT for violations of the citizens' constitutional rights to safety and environmental health, and the use of appropriate measures of regulation. Sergei Vlasenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the ex-head of the Ukrainian National Bank for Crimes involving financial equipment in Januković for more than US$1 billion. Marijana Bezugola to the Kyiv City State Administration on some issues of road infrastructure and inter-quartered passages. Sergia Labazuk to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Chief of Staff, Deputy Head of the Anti-Terrorism Centre at the Ukrainian Security Service for the inclusion of Jurczak Marina Anatoliyovna in the list of prisoners. Sergia Labazuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the need for an immediate increase in pensions for teachers and health workers. Alexander Gorenyuk to the Odessa City Head to resolve the issue of repairs and multi-floor buildings by elevators in the Suvorov district of Odessa. Alexander Kunicko to the Kharkiv City Head for the break of the lease agreement of 17 January 2008 of the Kharkiv City Council of CONTACT PLUS, as an infamous land renter at the Žuravlovska Voivodship of the city of Harkov, for breach of the lease agreement, for the systematic non-entitlement of citizens to water resources, for the transfer of land to illegal sub-land to third parties and for the critical state of the ecological situation. Groups of National Deputies (Andriyovich, Prosczek and others) A total of 8 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the critical situation of payment of salaries to medical personnel in the areas of health care in the regions of Ivano-Frankiv. Groups of National Deputies (Andriyovich, Matusevich and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Finance for Capital Repair of Road C 000917 Gwizd-Molodków and Road 0901103 Rosilna-Survenor of the region of Ivano-Frankov. Paul Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the repair of the road area 3,0408 territorial value from the city of Tokmak to Orikh, a total length of 46 km, as well as a national road of H-30 from the city of Vasilyvka to the city of Berdjansk, a total length of 143 km. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the promotion of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine’s financing, the definition of legal subordination to the relevant authorities of the State, and the non-closure of the Molochán district hospital located in the city of Molochánsk in the Tokmatic district of Zaporozhye. Oksana Savechuk to the Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the use of response measures to preserve and develop initial art education. Oksana Savchuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure for Projection of Expenditures in the State Budget of Ukraine for the 20th Year for the construction of a bridge across the Bistrica Solovinska River and a transport solution in the area of the streets of Chemików in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk and for the full allocation of educational and medical subsidies for the proper exercise of powers delegated by the State. Alexander Aliksiyczuk to the Deputy Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the Minister for the Development of Communities and Territories of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Health, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Equality District Council, the Head of the Regional Public Administration for the Distribution of Medical Subsidies. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Muchakov City Head, head of the Zacarpathian District State Administration for active assistance in ensuring adequate housing for former ATO militants, Volodymyr and her underage son, Primak Mark Artemovich, who is a hearing disabled. Victoria Kinsburg to the U.S. Attorney General’s Office for the conduct of illegal acts by individual employees of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, effectively blocking the work of a number of persons in charge of the cities of Kharkiv and Kiev, as well as the Kharkiv region. Groups of National Deputies (Herasimova, Heratchenko and others) A total of 13 deputies) to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to ensure an impartial, objective and prompt investigation of unlawful property violations, is appropriate. Belongs to the former head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Valeria Hontareva, and to the members of her family. Alexander Gorenyuk to the Odessa City Head, head of the Chief of State Fiscal Services in the Odessa Region, head of the National Police Department in the Odessa Region for the possible illegal operation of establishments for the sale of alcoholic beverages and possible illicit circulation of narcotic drugs in the Suvorov district of Odessa. Larissa Bilozer to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, State Road Agency of Ukraine, Ministry of Infrastructure for the repair of R-33, R-54, T-02-02, T-02-22, T-02-33. Dmitri Schencev to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine for the provision of electricity to consumers in the range needed for modern living conditions. Ruslan Trebushkin to the executive duties of the Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine regarding the forecasting of capital road repairs on the streets of Schmidt, Dobropolska Street, and Chassein Street of the city of Pochrovsk of the Donetsk Region in the State Budget for 2020. Ruslan Trebushkin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the forecasting of funds for the execution of works from the capital repair of the tours of the Western and Nova Station, which pass through the city of Pokrovsk Donetsk Region in the State Budget for 2020. Paul Frolov to the Minister for Veterinary Affairs, temporarily occupied territories, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the use of measures to address the socio-economic and housing problems of internally displaced persons. Maria Mezentsevsky to the head of the Private Shareholders Association of the Holding Company Kyivmishkbud regarding the plans and deadlines for the removal of the emergency situation by the Private Shareholders of the Holding Company Kyivmishkbud on the porch of the house on the street of Głuskov, 9-B. Anna Speedhod to the Director-General of the Kyivoblanergo Private Shareholders' Association for the non-performance of the Kyivoblanergo Private Shareholders' Company under the terms of the Treaty for the Integration of Electric Housing Networks in the village of Sofia Borschagivka. Paul Frolov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on improving private regulation of evaluation activities and repealing the provisions of well-known regulations. notable regulatory acts in the area of asset valuation, which introduce unforeseeable laws, artificial limitations in the field of valuation. Marina Bardina to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the closure of the Social Apartment and the Daily Center. Stepan Kuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the government to respond to existing threats to the development of production and agriculture in Ukraine. Stepan Cuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the government to ensure the efficient work of the Committee with the appointment of managers of particular importance for the economy of enterprises. Ask everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, let's get to work. We turn to the presentation of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the presentation of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2020 (Registration No. 2000). According to part three of article 154 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. Ukraine's Minister of Finance, Oksana Sergiyovna Markarov, is invited to present the draft State Budget Act for 2020. Please, Oksana Sergiyevno.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u6	Dear Head, honourable deputies, honourable colleagues of the people's deputies, honourable Ukrainians, Ukraine this summer has launched a new political cycle - the democratic elections have elected the President of Ukraine, the democratic elections have elected a new parliament and today the new government, formed by you, represents the first project before the first reading of the State budget for 2020. Over a very short period of time, the new government of 29 August has made every effort to present to you the highest quality document that ensures the efficient spending of taxpayers first and that allows us not only to ensure further economic growth in the background of the growth achieved, but also to maximize it. I want to draw your attention to what we are presenting today the draft State Budget before the first reading before the government presents its action programme and before you approve this action programme. Yet we do so because the Constitution and the rules of the Code of Budget are binding upon us. Because the law is one for all. And because by September 15, as the Constitution requires, we are obliged to provide you with this document and are obliged to start this discussion with Parliament. The state budget is not a declaration, it's not a promise, it's not a set of wishes, it's the country's main financial document. And that's why it's based very clearly on macroeconomic projections, on clear calculations of both income and expenditure in this budget. Our strategic goals, and these are the President's objectives, your goals as the Supreme Council, and our goals as a government, are to maximize economic growth. And secondly, perhaps even most important, is to speed up the transition to the growth in the well-being of our people. The budget that we're discussing today -- and you've already had the ability to get familiar with the figures -- you have the very text of the draft budget that the Ministry of Finance printed, and a very short lecture that I see in your hands -- based on a macroeconomic forecast that was approved in May 2019. And a review of this macro-prediction, which the Budget Code allows us to do between the first and the second readings, is still ahead. So today the budget is based on a real GDP growth of 3.3 percent, and the macroeconomic indicators, and the social standards that the previous Cabinet approved in May. We have declared an ambitious goal -- an increase of 5 to 7 percent a year. It's a very ambitious goal and it's attainable. But for that. And what really matters is that this is the right way to fight poverty. But in order for us to see it in the budget, we need to work actively with you on those bills that you've been actively voting for the past two weeks, and those bills that you're still voting on today. Of course, it is very easy to criticize the budget itself for the fact that wages are too small and sophomores are not growing as fast as they would like. Although in this budget you will see growth in virtually all important areas for Ukrainians. However, rather than being critical, we need to do very specific things that will lead to this. And this is the destruction of corruption in state-owned enterprises, and the acceleration of privatization, this is the start of a concession for investment to come to Ukraine, this is also a real fight against customs violations and construction, really, strong, transparent, free from customs corruption, this is also bringing a lot of spheres to European standards. That's all that's being very actively discussed in committees, subcommittees and in the hall. So could we have done it in two weeks and reflected it in the government budget? Of course not. But we're confident that all these steps that we're taking with you right now will have a positive effect in the consideration of the state budget and when it comes to second reading. I want to assure you that as the minister who has made more than one budget, that this document is balanced, it is realistic, and this budget provides for the financing of all priority expenditure. I'll stop at a few of them. First. The revenue of the budget is $1 billion 79. 1 trillion 79 billion dollars. What's important is that for the first time we don't submit any changes to this bill to the Tax Code. None. All the income that is included in this budget is based exclusively on today's income and today's rates. And we're actually reducing this tax redistribution budget through the budget, so we're reducing what we're taking from entrepreneurs to fund government spending. I want to point out, it's true that a number of bills that we're going to submit to the Supreme Council, which the President has designated as priority, and the legalization of the gaming business, and the legalization of amber, if they are supported by you, discussed and supported for second reading, are an additional resource that, before what's stated here, you can allocate to health, education and other social spheres. In visions. In our expenses, we're focused, well, first of all, of course, it's national security and defense. This budget for national security and defence has 245 billion dollars, which has been allocated in a number ( 5.4 per cent to GDP) based on expenditure in the 19th year. And please note that there has been a separate budget programme of 6501060, which provides the National Security Council with additional funds to be allocated to the second reading. With regard to education, a total amount of $136.4 billion is planned for education. It's funded both for education subsidies and New School funding and higher education institutions for inclusive education. For the first time in this budget, we're predicting 300 million for development. for the development of higher education, that is, the development of science itself. Health protection is 108 billion dollars. It's more than 19 years old. And there's both primary medicine and reimbursation of the cost of drugs and emergency medicine, and the start of secondary medicine on April 1. Culture, the information sphere, is very important. As you know, it's now coordinated in one department. To support the cinematographer, 1.3 billion; to continue building important, important objects in this area; to the Ukrainian Institute of Books; and to develop a book in general; to the museum, 1.4 billion. The main thing is that our social language also has full funding required by the law, which is 2 billion. Road infrastructure, that's a lot of people interested. This year we have for the first time 100 percent of our excises go to the road fund. So there's 74.4 billion in the budget, that's 19.3 billion more than there was in the 19th year. However, if you and I are effective in the work that we do in both tax and customs, and the excises are going to be more collected, this will automatically increase, and more will be allocated to roads. Many have noted that we spend a great deal in this budget to pay off and service our debt both internally and externally. Almost a third of the budget goes to these costs because after the 15th year, after the restructuring, we had a few years when we didn't have to go back. Unfortunately, since 19 this situation has returned. But what we've completely predicted and fully fulfilled our commitments will allow us to reduce our debt to 46.7 percent by the end of the 20th year. It makes our economy more stable, it makes us more ready for the next few years, and it'll let us spend more money on development in the future. The State Regional Development Fund, many of whom asked, has a budget of 9.5 billion. This is one percent, as the Budget Code requires, so the priorities that the state wants to provide at regional level will be fully assured. Once again, this is not the final budget. This is the budget that we are transferring today, in this statement, to the Supreme Council site for the start of a completely professional, frank discussion with you in order to have a full discussion, as required by the Budget Code. Those bills that you're currently discussing: opening up the land market, starting concessions, transparent privatization, setting up the customs system, facilitating tax administration. I want to thank you for those bills that have already been voted on. And ask you to support those bills that, as part of our European integration and implementation of all these issues, will not only allow us to do all these things, but will also allow us to improve our projections, allow us to accelerate GDP growth and also allow us to reflect properly in the budget, how this will affect our citizens' well-being. Let's now, from now on, and until the process of full budgeting, let's do this work together and make our budget one that we're going to give guidance to both Ukrainian citizens and Ukrainian businesses and foreign investors. Thank you and I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u7	Thank you, Oksana Sergiyevna. I'm asking you to sign up for a question to the finance minister of Ukraine. Order is 15 minutes. Everyone please sign up for the performance. On the question, excuse me, for a question. Oddczuk Andri Petrovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u8	Please pass the word to the Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u9	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u10	Tzabal Volodymir Volodymyrovich, faction of the Voice. Thank you, Mrs. Oksana, for this presentation, very useful. We've studied this budget in quite a few ways in our faction, we have a number of questions. A few wanted to, two literally, now to be asked, because time isn't much. First. With regard to the defence budget, we welcome that an additional 28 billion have been allocated to increase the defence budget. Questions. Will these funds be redistributed to the Ministry of Defence for second reading, or will they remain with the director of the RNB? That's the first question. And the second question is about the social sector. So, really, we see that the medical budget has grown by 13 percent. But for example, in education, we see that the growth is small, there seems to be about 5 percent. Or are some of them scheduled for the second reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u11	Let me finish, please. Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u12	You're looking at the education program, like the wage increase for teachers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u13	Thank you so much for asking. The second reading will no doubt redistribute these expenses, which are now on a separate program. The budget code says that all security and defence expenses, 15 of them, should be distributed according to the decision of the PNDP. This meeting of the LNB will be held before we submit the budget for the second reading. Accordingly, you too have the ability to comment now, giving your suggestions, and you will be able to discuss them. Thus, until the second reading, this will be fully redistributed, for the 15 executives of this article, As far as education is concerned. We're absolutely all the questions that apply to both education subsidies, and this is a matter of calculation, and specific formulas. I want to say that if, for example, in medicine, Ukraine spends on average less than the average OECD country, Ukraine spends more than the average OECD country. So the question, including what is now being done by all of our chief executives, is that all ministers are looking inside efficiency. What we're saying is why this budget is, we have this working title of the Efficiency Budget. So to add to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u14	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u15	Savrasov Maxim. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u16	Therefore, the issue of education by specific programs can be addressed by increasing. Let's also discuss this together on subcommittees, on the profile committee and on the budget. But let's look inside and in programs where there are really efficiency issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u17	Savrasov Maksim Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u18	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u19	Victoria Petrovna Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u20	Mrs. Oksana, I'm still in the middle of the previous topic, because a lot of questions have been raised by these 26 billion in the PNB. I understand that the PNB has not been able to allocate the military budget for the time being. That is, the most important item that should be provided first was not allocated precisely because the PNDP had not yet made any decisions throughout the work, namely, the new authority. What's the problem, first? And secondly, what are the priorities of this budget? And I really hope that we're not going to see such legal nihilism as recorded in the PNB, such huge sums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u21	Thank you very much. In fact, it's not written on the PNB, it's a program that provides for a distribution between 15 supervisors. I wouldn't say that it didn't work, I want to say once again that the government of the new and new PNDPs are working, they were actually working two weeks before this document was submitted. So a lot of the procedures that had to be done by 29 August, not all of them had been completed, so we had to finish the budget quite quickly. And so this is absolutely not in conflict with the Code of Budgets, and now we have time to have a quality discussion, and get a distribution from the ORP, which will necessarily be included in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u22	Ioff. Let me finish, please, Oksani. It's all right, isn't Ioffe Yuliy Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u23	Please pass the word to Pauline Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u24	Pavlenko Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u25	Madam Minister, unfortunately, this draft budget for the following year is a complete disappointment, it is not what overcomes the era of poverty, it preserves the era of poverty. In particular, I would like to point out that the project does not fulfil any obligation to improve the protection of the child’s rights, neither to treatment nor to social security, nor to support children who have suffered from military action. I pay particular attention to orphans, children deprived of parental care, where payments are tied to a minimum of living, and only 5 percent raises. They're already in poverty and they're calling for orders from the appropriate President of Ukraine. That's why the 2020 budget continues to be an extinction budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u26	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u27	And a separate question about government mines. The program, which is predicted, can unfortunately lead to government mines in the following year.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u28	Oksana Sergiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u29	Thank you very much. For all the social programs that are set up in this budget. This is also a program of assistance to families with children who have a total of 59.5 billion and a variety of grants and benefits, various forms of subsidies. It's a question of social policy. I want to point out that when inflation was much higher or when we had growth earlier, unfortunately, social standards didn't grow as fast as they did in this budget. We've even declared, and a lot of people have criticized for what we've declared, what we're taking on, the Ministry of Social Policy is going to be working on looking at and actually setting a real living minimum. Because this is an important issue that needs to be discussed, and we also need to find the right solutions in this case. And plus a very important question, which I hope you will vote for today. Can I have a minute, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u30	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u31	The one you're voting on is the question of verification. In order for all children, all those who really need it, to receive it, it is essential that these funds are not to be stolen by those who should not receive it. So it's very important that you and I come to the right focus of these programs and we can give more to both children and children who have suffered and so on. So the Ministry of Social Policy, together with them, we are ready to work very actively on this bill. Please, let's make our proposals for redistribution inside, I think we're going to be very active in discussing this with all the deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u32	Thank you. Davidenko Valerius Mikolaiovich, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u33	Dear Oksano Sergiyevno! The issue of substantial support for agri-industrial enterprises. The draft budget provides only 4.5 billion dollars to support villages and agrarians, less than 5.6 times the amount of the special tax regime in 2013. It really violates paragraph 42 of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Budget Code on the allocation of one percent to support agribusiness enterprises, which corresponds to the order of 8 billion dollars. There is also a lack of funds for land reform. The budget projects provide only 78 million dollars, less than 165 million dollars this year or 68 percent. There is also no cost of coming into the budget. From the sale of land, and this entire support of 4.5 billion dollars goes to finance the purchase of land. So the budget for eating, not the development of an agri-industrial complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u34	I thank you so much for that question. First of all, then. Those APC support programs that have been in the past two years, I encourage you to look at how they've been used for the last two years, and each time at the end of the year, almost half of these funds were back in the budget or redistributed into other programs. Why spend on programs that do not use them during the year? So let's look at and let's see how much you really need for these programs. The second question. With regard to supporting the land market. Costs that have been allocated both in this year and in the previous year, and in the next year, this development support program, it has been set aside to finally bring the system to the State Department and to bring the Earth cadastre in order, and to have all the information in order to keep the boundaries normal and so on. Unfortunately, we all know that this is not done, and you've heard the Prime Minister say that personnel decisions will be made, and there will be an order. And that's what we're asked to do, first of all, by the owners of the pies, by the farmers, and by everyone. Third. 4.4 billion that we have to support the development of the earth. What is it? That's the cost of borrowing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u35	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u36	In carrying out land reform, we must do the same: protect food owners and protect those who want to, small farmers, small people who work on the ground and want to buy land. So we have to give them a long, cheap resource. That's why these 4.4 billion are now registered for the loan money program. This will be done in two forms: Form No. 1 is a direct rate hike, and Form No. 2 is the creation of a fund to which funds will be made, including our international partners, to guarantee a portion of the loan, so that banks will lend more readily, to demand fewer documents actually from these people who want to buy and work on their land and to run this process. So let's talk again on the agrarian committee, let's talk again on the budget committee and find out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u37	Thank you. Kamelchuk Yuri Aleksandrovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u38	Good afternoon, Oksana Sergiyevna! I want to do three very short things. First. What is the official position of the Ministry of Finance on gas and oil rent? Because it's this document that's been distributed that says "preservation of effective rates," and we're now looking at Bill 1210 -- on raises. The second is about state support for the coal sector. I personally promise you to take care of it and direct it, to continue to guide you there. Support is yes! - for now, they need it. And notice that regions, in particular, need to be supported not only by businesses themselves but also by people if these businesses are to be closed down. And thirdly, still, would you like to add a little bit more details about the compensations for closing fees with a different amount of rations, and in fact, would it be possible and how will we, the national deputies, be able to influence the distribution of subsidies for cities in which certain difficulties will be involved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u39	Thank you very much. Let me start with. Let me give you a quick answer on the resource side. This bill does not take into account the other bills that we are currently discussing on the tax committee, and we are willing to work for them, and we are here fully supporting the budget. The tax committee on the whole bill, let's discuss it there. Here, in the budget so far, only valid rates. That's the first one. The second question is about shafts. Colleagues, if you look at budgets starting in the 15th year, we've always had mine restructuring programs and we've always had damage management programs. What do you mean, "covering damage"? This means that in these mines the cost of production is much higher than the price at which they will sell. So the reform that should have been carried out here, and I hope that it will still be done very quickly, is to look honestly at all the mines and clearly distribute them into those mines that can be profitable, but to do so you have to invest something and you have to invest in them, and those mines that regardless of any action that might be made can never become profitable. That's why it's on these mines.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u40	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u41	Thus, it will be fair to support people on these mines, not mines. Don't keep up a totally non-profit business that's neither bad for ecology nor for business, nor, first of all, for people. We are ready for this discussion, we have all the work, we are ready to discuss these issues with the Minister of Energy and Ecology. As far as local budgets are concerned. Come on, it's time to talk, have an open discussion about the local budgets. The current state of affairs in a single treasury account is 72.4 billion local budgets, and 7.7 billion are on deposits. Of the 103.4 billion own funds, the capital costs own. The local budget is used for today’s 34.8 billion. We're still distributing the State Regional Development Fund. What losses are we talking about when we speak? I think we should have a very nice discussion, open and honest, and transparent with our local budgets on the efficient spending of the funds already in the local budgets. This does not mean that you should not look at inter-budget transfers. Because Poland, for example, has been decentralization, and our decentralization since 15 is very similar to the model that Poland has been carrying out, Poland has been doing it for 10 years. And for 10 years, we've watched how the formulas work correctly in Poland, where it's wrong, and we've changed constantly. Let's have this discussion, let's see which levels don't work. Let's finish decentralization because we still haven't finished it in the area formation and so on. So that amount, which in the previous year, in 2018, generated as much as 1.6 billion, and in this year as much as 1 billion, is completely incomparable figures with the tens of billions that the local budgets are now operating on. And finally, the main taxes for local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u42	Oksana Sergiyevna, I'm sorry, regulations, regulations. Please sit down, Oksana Sergiyevna. Question time's up. Thank you, Minister. Honourable National Deputies are invited to report on the compatibility of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine with the requirements of the Budget Code by the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of Yuri Yuriovich Aristov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u43	Honourable Dmitre Alexandrovich, National Deputies, Minister of Finance, has submitted to the Supreme Council in due time a bill on the state budget for 2020, and today's submission of the bill takes place within the time limit set by law. Parliament therefore has the opportunity to consider such a document in accordance with the special procedure laid down in the Rules. First, it should be noted that the previous government has not met the requirement of Article 33 of the Budget Code for the approval and submission to the Supreme Council of the Declaration of Budget for 2020 and for the next two years. And this is because it was the previous government that initiated the implementation of such a declaration. There is currently no government medium-term budgeting document to determine the principles of budgetary policy for the next three years and, accordingly, would be the basis for the drafting of the State budget for 2020. In general, the bill is understood that it did not allow the new government to carefully process the budget indicators and take into account in the bill all the programming tasks of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers. On this point, the Prime Minister publicly stated, and pointed out the intention to substantially redraft the draft for second reading, based on the need to clarify the macroeconomic forecast, to take into account the government's activities programmes and the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council, which the Supreme Council's conclusions, which should be approved as a result of the first reading of the bill. On Wednesday, at a meeting of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Finance Minister Markarov Oksana Sergiyovna presented the main indicators and priorities of the draft State Budget for 2020, noting that the draft budget was prepared in accordance with the Budget Code and, unlike previous years, formed in the current tax legislation. In doing so, the government is presented with a draft budget-related bill, 2144, on changes to the Budget Code, which, among other things, specifies the distribution of expenditure between government and local budgets. Thus, such bills should be considered in conjunction with the aim of ensuring balance of budgetary indicators and harmonization of legal standards. At the same time, members of the committee drew attention to individual issues of concern that needed further discussion in the drafting of the bill. In particular, in the first place, the acceleration of the increase in the subsistence minimum to the new level claimed by the government, with the refinement of the corresponding budget indicators. Secondly, the obligation to allocate expenditure to national security and defence, as well as government capital investments, for the implementation of state investment projects. Thirdly, the development of the possibility of increasing financial resources to target regional development, as well as a separate discussion on the volume and direction of budget support for the agro-industry complex, given the significant role of such an economy in the formation of GDP and export potential. At present, it is premature to give an overall assessment of the bill, given the need for a detailed analysis of the state budget project. The Budget Committee has embarked on a thorough drafting of such a document, with the aim of studying government tasks in implementing key sector reforms, based on the project budget indicators, as well as ensuring the efficient and rational use of budgetary resources. According to special regulatory rules, the Committee on Budget Affairs should consider proposals by national deputies and committees for the bill and for the first reading to prepare the relevant conclusions and proposals. Thus, the committee addressed the committees and factions accordingly as to the need to make proposals in accordance with the requirements of Article 156 of the Rules of the Supreme Council. In particular, all proposals should be submitted to the Budget Committee no later than October 1. In doing so, the committee notes that proposals should be balanced, i.e. increasing costs or reducing budget revenues need to be identified as sources of coverage. So I invite people's deputies, factions and committees to cooperate constructively, and we call upon everyone to work productively on the draft budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u44	Thank you, Yuri Yuriovich. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Labunska Angela Victorovna, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u45	Please pass on the word Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u46	Yvchenko Eugene, Vadim. Vadim Evgenovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u47	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, the adoption of the budget, especially I am addressing the newly elected deputies, is a special document that will define the new Constitution for 2020. There's everything: there's a living minimum that has to be accounted for according to the standards that we have, there's minimum wages, there's local budgets, there's crops, there's everybody. Colleagues, and we should say that each budget must be in line with our stated principles of decentralization. But I'll say it. Look, you're drafting a bill that takes a stake out of local budgets. Including in this budget, you propose to take the excise, about 13-44 percent. Local budgets are minus 7.7 billion. The pie share is minus 1.1 billion. Minus 2.2 billion is actually what rural communities don't get. You don't offer land indexation, you don't increase the cost of land, people don't get an increased rent, it's minus 2.2 billion in the same budget. When you have inflation, you have 7.4. So the goods are going to grow, and people are not going to be able to buy, they're going to be able to buy. I'm talking about the rations, especially the renters. Colleagues, education grant, 77 billion when needed 105. Why do I say it when needed? Because you're offering to increase 12 percent, but that's an increase in those workers who aren't pedagogical. If we do all the legislative acts of the Cabinet of Ministers and we increase our teachers, we increase our education and teaching staff, we need another 20 billion, in fact, we need 105. That's minus 27 billion in local budgets. I'm not talking about the agrarian complex anymore. Colleagues, on the one hand, propose to start land reform, don't make a penny, on the other hand, say it will start on October 1st, but leave the cost compensation programs. So let me tell you, Minister, if you look at the programs that were worth compensation. By compensating the interest rates of the agrarians, you can see that there was less on this program, and only one and a half thousand producers took this compensation. You're just talking about why programs don't come to people, and you're increasing it four times, even more, by compensating interest rates. How are you going to get to these people when banks need bail, when banks directly need jobs with those manufacturers who can go to banks? It's not compensation. Look at the others.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u48	Ten seconds to complete, please. 25.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u49	Thank you. Thank you. Please see other programs. The compensation for the cost of the agricultural plant was paid to almost 5,000 farmers, 5, and the cost of the interest rate was paid at a rate of one and a half thousand. Fellows, let's return this budget because it's built on old ideology, you want to build a new policy, you want to bring a new policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u50	Thank you. I invite the People's Deputy Alexander Sergiyyovich Koltunović of the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u51	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Of course, the new political platform was to offer a new economic model for the country’s development. But what do we see when we analyze the state budget for 2020? This is actually the same budget that was in 2019. This is the first moment. All those urgent draft laws that told us they were going to create an economic leap, they're not formed or defined in this budget, and they don't show what the social effect of that is. Instead of what we see, there are antisocial things. For example, if we raise the minimum pension by 74 bracelets, by 74 bracelets, from 1 January 2020, instead of cutting subsidies by a large number of people. There were 55 billion will be 47.6 billion dollars. But tell me, what are the heating tariffs, maybe hot water supply, maybe plumbing, down? No, it's not. This means that people will receive less and reduce the number of subsidies and the amount of money. The next moment is very important, as far as fiscal decentralization is concerned. Actually, budget decentralization didn't happen, and we have to be honest about it. Because if we count the cumulative coefficient there, if we count the added weight of the budget, we see that this fraction doesn't increase. Instead, what do we see in this 20-year budget? This decreases the income of local budgets and inter-budget transfers. I'm stressing these are real numbers and they were 553 billion, they were 474 billion dollars. Here's the budget decentralization in numbers. On the one hand, we have a password, on the other hand, numbers. What I'd like to pay attention to. There are some pretty serious things. For example, the draft budget plans to reduce nontaxable revenues by as much as 14 billion dollars. And only 70 million dollars are planned from rent for the use of a complete property complex and other state property. Here in Parliament, we've been looking at one of the immediate draft laws that was just meant to increase these costs, and we only see 70 million dollars in the budget. So this number has to be real, reasonable and balanced. Next, next. Reductions in the amount of rent and wages for other natural resources. It's also an important ingredient. Also, the amount of excise duty and the added tax on imported customs territory of Ukraine, which is expected to reach the state budget, is 43 percent. Think about how much we depend on imports of goods made into Ukraine. And to finish, last of all, most of all. 3.3 percent is the growth of gross domestic product. At this rate, we're going to go long enough to get to the 2013 level. We've already figured out that even if it's plus 40 percent, we're still not going out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u52	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u53	We're not going to go to the 2013 cross-breeding rate, we're going to go to the GDP of 183 billion. We're proposing a return to this budget and a real budget that will, on the one hand, stimulate the priority sectors of the economy and, on the other hand, ensure social justice in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u54	Thank you. Kostuk Dmitry Sergiyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u55	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers! Minister of Finance! Today we're looking at the draft budget, and this draft budget has both its benefits and its downsides. In fact, we have to thank the Ministry of Finance for having been able to prepare this project for us in a short period of time, it was hard work. Especially since the previous government actually failed those plans that were planned for this year after the budget proposals arrived. In this budget, I see a lot of norms that we actually got from the development of the previous government. In particular, there are still expenses in this budget, we are offered to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. Although we have already planned a ministry to join forces with the Ministry of Energy. In particular, I see that there are important things in the budget for the Ministry of Environment, such as overcoming the consequences of the environmental disaster in the Tis Zacarpathian River Basin, but at the same time there are not very important costs that I ask to take into account these proposals by the Minister of Finance, to note that this is not the case. In May this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a decree on the elimination of the effects of the environmental disaster in the Gomorrah River and the Svet River Basin. In this decree, the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposed to the Cabinet of Ministers that the President of Ukraine declare the rivers a zone of ecological disaster and that the budget for this year should provide adequate funds to deal with the consequences of this environmental disaster. What's the matter? Since 2016, industrial wastes have been made in the river of Gomorrah, resulting in the loss of all flora and fauna there in 2016. This spring we received a massive sea of fish in the River Condens in Baranówka, for example, recorded a 20 - ton fish flow, and caused budget losses of 20 million dollars. In this water, according to Derzeko inspection, there are substances such as mercury, arsenic, excess doses of metal, and a gastric cane 20,000 times. And this water flows from Gomorrah to the Svet, it falls into the building of the Ukrainians, in Novograd-Wolinski there is a water collection completely out of the river Svet with this water. And in Ukraine, children in schools drink this very water in gardens.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u56	Dmitri Sergiyovich, thank you. Bondar Victor Vasilovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Head, honourable Oksana Sergiyevna, honourable members of the government, parliamentarians! First of all, my friends, we'd like to see in the draft budget a breakthrough budget, a jump budget. At the moment, all we see is that the budget that we've been given in the old medicine, in the old methodology, in some ways, is even the budget, by some calculations, that's worse than we've seen in the 2019 budget. We remember the Prime Minister's statement to our technocratic government that we expect the country's economy to go up, the GDP to rise from 7 to 40 percent next year. We understand the lack of time, we understand the need for work, to take into account all the new taxes that we are now taking into account in this room, because they are unaccounted for, let's say, by the legalization of amber. As a billion dollars, it's gone up to 1 billion 100 million, and so on. There's time for that. But of course, there are certain points that we want to discuss with you. And we want, Oksana Sergiyevna, that the government and you personally will listen as much as possible to the proposals of all groups and factions, and every national MP in this room. Of course, the government claims that it wants to raise the minimum of living, and we think we need to clearly write this minimum of living that it needs to be fixed. And it's not just a general phrase, unfortunately, that's belettistic in this draft budget that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is tasking to make a definite rise in the subsistence minimum in 2020 to 4 000 250 dollars, now that 2 000 27 dollars are currently being invested in the draft budget. Friends, we want this draft budget to be the development budget of Ukraine. We don't see the substantial support of APC enterprises, we don't see the cost of land reform. We don't see in this draft budget, in the first reading, the extra revenue from customs, customs payments. So we say stop smuggling on customs, do we not count anything yet from the fact that customs smuggling will still be stopped? We also want to understand the depth of decentralization that is to be completed in 2020. And how this will be reflected in the financial indicators of small towns and towns and villages. Because we understand that the State Regional Development Fund, which had 7 billion, is now growing as if it were growing to 9.5. But we changed the formula to 1 percent of GDP. Then, earlier in 19th year, there was a formula between 1 and 3 percent of the GDP of the DFRD, taking away socio-economic development. Oksana Sergiyevna, if we're taking socio-economic development, which also went to small towns and villages, let's add it to the State Regional Development Fund, and we're giving it to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u58	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u59	Unfinished construction facilities, launching facilities, because the united territorial communities themselves on their shoulders are not going to bring up all the burdens involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u60	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Sussun Inna Romanovna, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u61	Good morning, dear fellows! Representatives of the government! I thank you for this opportunity to discuss the budget. I think there's a lot of work ahead of us in terms of refinement and refinement, and we understand very well that this draft budget, it's very much a reflection of the work of the previous government. And we obviously still have to see what the real budget for 2020 is going to be for the implementation of, in fact, a new government. We are now grateful that the new budget includes increased costs of defense. Although we want to see how they will be used. Increased expenditure on anti-corruption bodies, which is also positive. But we want to see the final budget. And before we see the final budget, I'd like to ask a few questions to the Ministry of Finance about education. We have heard a lot about the need to raise education costs. We see that in the budget project, in principle, education spending has increased somewhat. We see an increase of about 11 percent in education subsidies, 5.5 percent in higher education. But I think the question that's most interesting to high school students is this. On July 10, 2019, the previous Cabinet of Ministers adopted a decree that envisioned a substantial increase in salaries for all education students to 70 percent by category. I realize that the implementation of this decree would mean nearly 22 billion additional expenditure on education by the state. Today, we see that this ruling is not included in the budget. But at the same time, this decision is not overturned. And obviously, what I'd like to hear is the answer to the question of what will be the fate of this decision, whether it cancels or whether it will come true. For my part, I will say that neither total cancellation nor full implementation will solve the issue of unfair pay for the work of teachers. And obviously, we need to look for other approaches for a more transparent and understandable wage formation for teachers. And I would like to invite Parliament and the government to a productive dialogue on this issue. The second question I have for the government concerns university spending. I welcome the government's proposal to create a separate article on "Development in higher education." 250 million dollars is invested under this article in the State Budget. The individual development article is positive, but what I'm surprised to see is that development costs are actually halved compared to those that were earmarked for the total expenditure on higher education last year. This year, in 2019, 475 million were set aside in the cost of spending on development, so I think that would be worth an increase. And the last question is that of science. 526 million is allocated to the National Research Fund, which is good, which is twice as good as last year. Of course, scientists need more. And that sum is there, and it's going to be in a mysterious amount. The president's research fund. This year, no copies of this fund have been used, which was set up – 1 billion. Scientists are very active.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u62	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u63	Scientists have actively criticized the allocation of scientific expenditure to the President’s own fund. And I don’t understand why this article is left with expenses instead of tossing all this money.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u64	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u65	To bring them all together for the National Science Foundation, guaranteeing funding for science through transparent principles of billions of dollars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u66	Thank you. Friz Irina Vasilovna. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u67	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, north of Restoration. Dear friends, what do you and I have with this State Budget project next year? The main thing is the complete inadequacy of the rhetoric of power and reality, which is set in the State budget. Let's see what the Prime Minister tells us that we have before the economic growth and the upheaval: 40 percent in five years, in the first year, 5 percent. What we see in reality in the budget project is 3.3 percent. Maybe someone thinks it's a small, well, 3.3, 5 percent difference, actually it's tens, tens of billions of dollars. The first thing we can't understand anymore. Let's take a look at it. President Zelensky told us in his electoral program that he promised a worthy salary to the teacher and the doctor. What do we see in reality? Indeed, there is no increase in wages for either the teacher or the doctor. With the doctor a little bit more inflation, education costs are actually rising at inflation levels, without any increase. Moreover, in July the government adopted a decree approving a new tariff network for educators, which envisioned a substantial increase in teachers ’ salaries. And today we're offered, how much money do you think we can spend on this decision? Zero. But the decision is not over. If you do not want to do so, cancel, and if you do not cancel, do so! I want to remind you how the green team promised $4,000 to teachers. Well, I see you've taught your teachers a good lesson about how to deceive people. And that's totally unacceptable. What's the money for? There's no money for educated people, there's no money for important things, and what are they for? There's an increase for the President's Office, please. There's an increase to the Attorney General's Office, please. There's growth, we've been told, we're creating new ministries, these French Ministry ministries: energy and ecology, economics and APCs, veterans and occupied territories to save officials. Where is this economy in the budget? Where government spending is reduced by one bracelet, show it. He's gone. And that's the reality that today we're actually being shown in this budget, that there's one reality in television and there's going to be a completely different reality in the refrigerator in people. And I want you to understand that sooner or later the refrigerator will win this endless reality show that you're putting on. So until it's too late, let's put in a normal budget, where there's village support, where there's education support, all that you're depriving the country today. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u68	Please sign up for the performances by the National Deputies. Bragar Eugene Vadimovich, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u69	The draft of the new budget includes a whole series of new expenditures, including the election of national deputies. It's worth noting that we've updated the composition of the CLTC and the financing of new expenses for the election of national deputies is a very important part of it. It is also worth noting that the new budget project, on the positive side, has allocated a record amount of money to the road fund in recent years. The road fund is one of the main funds because the financing of infrastructure, every bracelet invested in infrastructure, returns 3 bracelets to the budget in different forms of revenue from completely different spheres. It should also be noted that the cost of defense is quite substantial. The defense of the state is one of the main factors behind the war, for whatever happens, we must remember that there is a war in the state. As far as wishes are concerned, me. One of my main wishes is for infrastructure to be increased, because we actually have a road fund in a miserable state right now. This can be understood by every national MP when he travels to his district next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u70	Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich, faction of European Solidarity. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u71	Dear friends, I want to tell you a personal story. This story relates to the Vacarchuk Saint, who is now in this room. And for the first time, I saw Svetoslav Vakarczuk when he was a little boy in the camp of the Lviv Small Academy of Sciences. Because the Lviv Small Academy of Sciences was run by his father, a brilliant physicist and former minister of education, John Vakarczuk. And I went to the Small Academy of Sciences, like so many young people that this Small Academy of Sciences actually gave me a path to life, helped me to think structurally, to do science, to win conferences and the Olympics. When I open this budget and I see that the Small Academy of Sciences is down 27 million dollars, I don't know why. It's not that big of a money. These small academics are all over Ukraine, funded by local budgets. But from the central budget, children can go to the Olympics, conferences abroad, and receive special training! All of this has been reduced and eliminated from the budget. The same 30 million funding for the Ukrainian Book Institute has been cut and eliminated from the budget. What does the Ukrainian Book Institute do? Besides buying books for libraries, he runs a program called the Ukrainian Book, which should support Ukrainian talented authors. It promotes translation of Ukrainian literature abroad, and it supports Ukraine’s participation in the Frankfurt Fair. Now there's a lion's book fair going on, and that's exactly what the Kyiv Arsenal is doing. This is all done by the Ukrainian Book Institute. The funding of the Ukrainian Book Institute has been reduced by 30 million. Instead, when I see 26 billion being allocated to the National Security and Defence Council -- and so on, Mrs. Markarov, in a single line -- and I understand that the President of Ukraine is the Head of the National Security and Defence Council, that is, the funds that are essentially coming to his personal and personal disposal, the only thing I have left is if the government wants to reduce these small costs of culture and education, to the Small Academy of Sciences and the Institute of Books. To go to the President of Ukraine and ask you: Mr. President, I understand that you think you were voted by those who watch TV, but there were many who read books and want their children to have a normal education. That's why I'm asking you to pay back the Institute of Books, the Small Academy of Sciences and Child Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u72	Thank you. A minute on the line is Svoslav Ivanovich Vakarczuk. Turn on the microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u73	Thank you. Since my name has been mentioned (thank you for being in a pleasant setting), I use the right to reply to say that I support the call for increased funding in the budget for the Small Academy of Sciences. As the person who went to this important school myself, I'm sure there's a lot of people in this room who know what it is. It's small money compared to the amount we're operating on. I very much ask the Ministry of Finance to respond with caution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u74	Thank you. Time for discussion is up. The word is given to Ukraine’s finance minister, Marcarova Oksana Sergiyovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, thank you so much for having me through the presentation procedure today. Thank you so much for all the comments, wishes, criticism, constructive and not so much. We're starting an active budget work today. Please note that the budget is a financial document. This budget must be realistic. Our deficit, that is, when we spend more than we earn, is the problem that ends with a reduction in expenditure. So in fact, our task is not to increase wages for one year and then drive Ukraine into crisis again, but to develop an economy, to make it an increase and education, and medicine, and wages, and pensions that our pensioners deserve, to be sustainable and to be sustainable for many years. So it's a big request to support all the economic bills, concessions, privatization -- everything that hasn't been voted on in many years, because that's exactly what it's going to be, from 3 percent now in this budget, which is in the May 19 macro-prediction, to go to 5 percent that can become reality in the 20th year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Just a minute. The submission of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2020 has been completed. According to article 154 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, Ukraine’s draft State Budget Act 2020 is considered accepted by the Supreme Council for further work. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the Bill of Amendments to the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, which is a small question (project registration number 2158). I would like to ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please take your places to vote. The issue of the review of the shortened procedure (project registration number 2158) is to change the calendar of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Please be supportive. Please. Vote. [[11:30:56]] For 207 Decision taken. I invite the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u78	Honorary Presidium, honourable members of the national parliament, is proposed for your consideration by the draft Decree (Registration No. 2158) to amend the calendar schedule for the second session of Parliament of the ninth vocation, which was made by members of the national committee. Having considered the proposal by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this was a letter dated 19 September, on the need for Parliament to consider a number of bills that were defined by the President as urgent and to amend the calendar plan for the October 2-4 plenary meetings, and the week from 7 to 11 October for work on committees, committees, committees, parliamentary factions and groups, the committee at its meeting today, September 20, decided to bring the draft resolution to Parliament by members of the National Committee and to adopt it as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u79	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Please tell me, is there a need to discuss this? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in. Please, National Deputy Bragar Evgen Volodymyrovich, Political Party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u80	Please give the word to the head of the faction of Arahamaiah to David.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u81	Please, Arahami David Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u82	I'll pass on the word to Cornienne.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u83	You can't pass. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u84	Okay. It's up to the calendar plan. In fact, we agreed on this in the working group and this plan, in my opinion, gives us normal working conditions to work out the budget on the committees, all these adjustments that were made to the second reading. And that's why I think, including the time on the committees and to work, and to adopt, according to our legislative plan, all the laws that are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u85	Thank you, David Georgievich. Please, next reporter. Klimpush-Cincadze? No, it's not. Please, Honcharenko Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u86	Alexei Hotcharenko, faction of European Solidarity, north of Odščina. Dear friends, you know what they're trying to say right now is that it's for the budget, for something else. That's not true. That's enough time for the budget until October 15th. And we just have a session of 7 to 10. That's not true. What are we talking about? I really want to take power in Kiev. And in order to appoint the December 8 elections, we need to be able to adopt the law, the same Capital Law, with the attack on local self-government, with the destruction of local self-government by October 8. That's a very simple logic. And what they didn't want was that from October 2 to 4, when they proposed to hold a session, they planned the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, it didn't matter. Because we need to take the money -- 56 billion city budgets in Kiev. And here, this is really going to be a green victory. And here's the thing: spit on the calendar plan, change the dates, do whatever it takes. And they'll tell you what it is for people, it's for people, because people want the MPs to come to work faster. I just told you what's really going on here. In fact, there is simply a brutal contractor to take power in Kiev without waiting for a normal turnout without respecting the will of the Chinese without respecting European principles. And so they're going to do whatever they want. Sorry, guys, it's not politics, it's some kind of politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u87	Please welcome to the floor of the People's Deputy, Mr. Dmitry Valeriovich Lubinz, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u88	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! Congratulations, we're working on the third week, we're voting on the third calendar plan. You know, we have it. Fourth? Fourth. You know, we're making some progress. I'm addressing you, really, right this week, when you propose to put to the vote and work in this session room, there's a session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Paris, where 24 people's deputies from this room should go. I call you, if we're talking about system work, that's planning. If we're talking about protecting national interests in the international arena, that's first of all PARJE. The same should be true of our delegation to the OSCE. Let's not turn the Ukrainian Parliament into a mockery again, because someone wanted to move one week into another, and just the Parliament takes it and votes. So I urge you, we live, at least for the time being, in the parliamentary-presidential republic, not the other way around. We will not support and vote in favour of changing the calendar plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u89	Thank you. Only if you look at this plan, nothing changes, just three days from the committees are transferred to the plenary. I just don't understand where you're supposed to be. Thank you. We still have to work. Please, next, I give the floor to Vladimir Vladimirovich Cabal, the political party "The Voice". Excuse me, Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u90	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u91	It's just written.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u92	Colleagues, changing committees for plenary meetings is somewhat ineffective. Last night, literally, yesterday, you and I witnessed a situation where the hall was manipulated in a banal way, when information about the very necessary bill that it would have had, gave, unloaded the work of the investigating authorities, canceled Lozov's papers, and gave NABA a full opportunity to work, and to fight corruption, due to underwork, because of the turbulence of the vote, we lost our chance at quality work. So let's call for the logic of planning: first the committees, then the reception in the hall. If you put the wagon in front of the mare, the wagon won't go. A great request, don't take your deputies, your faction colleagues have the opportunity to understand the laws. Turboures only work when the turbine is properly worked and cleaned. Otherwise, it breaks like yesterday. That's why we're against the plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u93	Thank you. I don't have any more people written down. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to take your seats. We're going to the vote. Ready to vote? Puts to the vote the draft Amending Regulation. Please have a seat. The draft Decree amending the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (project registration number 2158) is put to the vote. I ask all deputies to prepare for the vote. Please vote and vote, please. [[11:39:41]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank you. It's time to work, my friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u94	By factions, show me. Let's move on to the next question. Honourable National Deputies, according to article 85, paragraph 35, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is appointed to serve as the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall determine and propose to the Supreme Council. For your consideration, I propose the appointment of the Chief of the Supreme Council of the Ukraine of Art Viacheslav Vasilovich. I propose the following rules of procedure: a statement by the candidate for office, up to 3 minutes, a speech by the chairman of the committee, up to 2 minutes, statements by the MPs and groups, up to 18 minutes. After that, the decision was made. If you don't mind, I suggest you work with this algorithm. Thank you. Let's move on to the question. It's a good word. Let's move on to the question. It's a good word. [[B in m in s a l in]] Human resources are not included in the vote. Do you want to vote for the procedure? No discussion? Thank you. Please support and vote, without discussion. [[11:41:35]] For 307 Thank you. 307 – against – 7, 18 – held. Decision taken. I welcome your head. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine I am very grateful for all the support and for the consolidated position in the hall. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] I got it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I got it. All right, all right. [[B in m in s a l in]] There was an offer without discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, I propose to appoint the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council of the Ukraine of artificial Veacheslav Vasilovich. Yeah? There's no objection. I'm betting on the vote, and hopefully the results will be the same. Please support and vote. [[11:43:21]] For 340. Decision taken. I thank you all again for your position. And, in fact, we've appointed the head of the Apparatus twice. Thank you again. Let's move on to the next question. Dear colleagues, I propose that we change the order of the subject and move on to the questions that stand and are prepared for the second reading. Please tell me, is there a objection in the hall? No, it's not. Then I suggest we move on to question 1085-1. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of consumers' rights to financial services. There is no objection, then we turn to the issue. The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Dubinsky Alexandre Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! To your attention, Bill 1085-1, this is the second reading of the Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of consumers' rights to financial services. The bill received almost 44 proposals from the people's deputies -- mine, Bilkovi, Mrs. Jujanina and Mrs. Kondratuk. Of these amendments, 31 are included, 11 are rejected and two are now taken to the hall and discussed. Unfortunately, Mrs. Kondratuk's amendments came after the meeting and were not considered by the committee, so they are proposed for discussion and definition of support or rejection – this is amendment 16 after line 63 of the table and amendment 32, 156 of the table if you are currently looking at the text of the bill. What do we propose about the second reading? Agreeing the text of the bill with the text adopted last week of the Financial Services Market Regulation, or SPlit. And, in particular, at the request of the National Bank and Minfin, we introduce accelerators to take effect with some appropriate positions, clarifications on electronic commerce, ratios and mechanisms proposed in the first reading of the rules on electronic contract forms. And at the request of business representatives, some definitions and mechanisms, such as the definition of the value of services, clarified the procedure for the dissemination of information, carried out technical and legal improvements in the edition. Personally, I can add that we have committed companies that provide financial services, clearly inform customers about the cost of these services, and provide information about the cost of the services of the third parties they engage in the financial services process: these are insurance companies, these are notaries, these are all commissions that are accounted for or not included in the granting of the loan or in the repayment of the loan. We also discussed the possibility of concluding. to include in the financial services agreement the possibility of part-time compensation and use, this applies to insurance companies. However, after consulting GNEU and reviewing the EU directive, they excluded this amendment. And now you can't ask a financial service user if he wants to terminate his contract with a financial company or a bank for a period of time, to ask him to pay off the unused value of the service. I'd like Mrs. Kondratuk to speak briefly. Because we're proposing to put the Advertising Act in this law in such a form that there is no bad advertising. So neither the financial companies nor the legal and physical persons on behalf of financial companies can give unfair advertising about financial services. So please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u96	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion of the disbarred rights. Amendment number one, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, Mr. Reporter, you know that we've considered this bill with the eighth call, and we've sent it back for a second read. A number of comments were made, including by business representatives, from financial institutions. And it applied to this observation, the exact amount of fines applied to financial institutions and to the individuals who are entrepreneurs who provide such services to consumers. And it was the fork that raised the most questions. And who's going to set this fork if the lower and the upper bounds are double: 50 and 100 minimum wage minimums; 300 and 600 minimum sizes? I talked about this at a committee meeting, and we need to take into account and ensure against corruption the financial institutions themselves in the application of fines.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u98	Thank you. Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u99	What was the position of the committee? We rejected this amendment because we consider it necessary to leave behind financial market regulators the possibility of discretion, first. And secondly, the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, it gives consumers a wide range of opportunities to demand information, get it electronically, paper-based, demand a clear list of services, and we believe that ensuring discretion when imposing fines will enable them to better control the provision of such information, because, if this is not done for the first time, the second time simply regulators will be able to take a more stringent approach to fixing and imposing fines for such violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u100	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Thank you. 2nd Amendment, Eugene. You insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, listen, please. The reporter just said that discretion is good. For the first time in my life, I've actually heard it so that we can give the organs the ability to determine by themselves on the basis of some artificial criteria how much fine should be applied. And that's why my 2nd amendment applied even more to the period of the second fine, over the course of the year. What year? Since the first violation or during the calendar year? All in all, we had to clarify the calendar year, but this amendment is also not included in some way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u102	Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u103	See, for discretion and for the calendar year or year. Once again, the consumer of financial services is now in contact with a financial institution or a non-bank financial institution with nothing to protect, so they refer to it as "disliked" – go to the garden. That's why we think that discretion will ensure consumers' rights to financial services in this case, because financial institutions need to know that either you're providing information or you're getting fines. It's important to me. I think it's important now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u104	Nina Petrovna, do you insist on voting? Thank you. Edit 3, Jujanina. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, well, they're fines again. Do you agree with Mr. Alexander’s reasoning? How is this possible, during the calendar year and year, that is, someone dependent on me or a consumer turned to me, or what would determine when it would be considered and whether it would be considered a repeated violation? Well, you're contradicting yourself, I think. So I do not propose to vote on my amendments. Because there's some kind of biased attitude here. Instead of giving a clear explanation, we give discretion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u106	Nina Petrovna, I'm talking about orderly. We supported your regulations on clarifying the information given to the consumer, this is regulation number 5; regulation No. 18 on clarifying information that is disclosed to consumers about shares and corporate frequencies; and clarification is regulation No. 35 – who is going to be tested by Nazcomcinpaper for the purpose of protecting consumers' rights. Therefore, there is no need to talk about prejudice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u107	Thank you. Nina Petrovna, did I understand correctly that we may not discuss any further of your regulations? Thank you. Edit number 16, Condratjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, this is only about change and information, and consumer advertising about financial services. Without going in. and completely supporting the report on the very changes in the law and the information and the advertising, I would still like to make the same changes to the profile law on advertising, article 24, which regulates completely all advertising, all the prohibited methods or the reverse permitted methods, all the advertising services, as well as the goods and services. So, without going into the discussion and supporting the language of the law in principle, I would still like to support my amendment and make the same profile changes to the "Advertisement Act" in article 24, which is the subject of the presentation of our humanitarian committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u109	Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u110	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm suggesting that it be rejected because it's an ad form. I'll explain why. Because of the limitations on the dissemination of information, there are limitations on the dissemination of information that can only be done by permission of a financial institution. This violates the citizens’ right to receive information. First. There are such concepts as incomplete, inaccurate and unreliable — and these are evaluative concepts. And I don't think it can be in the law either. And this rule is, above all, contrary to Ukrainian legislation in the field of professional journalism. And as for amendment number 32, which proposes to amend article 24 of the Advertising Act, this should be discussed, because this is a fundamental issue very much, and it can lead to a balanced legislation. So we can vote on this, but I think it's going to change a lot of the legislation that exists with regard to advertising.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u111	Mr. Alexander, I'm not going into a discussion with you right now. Exactly the same changes that you're proposing to the committee, you just have to bring them into your law and into the bill of profile of "Advertisement." That's exactly what you said about banking advertising, where they're allowed, where they're not allowed. But there's a profile law where everything that's about advertising is written, so there's no collisions. Because if the controlling authorities turn to your law, they'll say there's no such thing as advertising. And on the contrary, if they're using advertising, they say there's nothing to do with banking services. It's not, it's just to take down the colossal then in the amended all of these laws. Please be supportive. This has nothing to do with your law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u112	Alexander Anatolyevich, position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u113	Position - we can support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u114	Support me. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Amendment No. 16 of the People's Chamber of Condratiuk. Please prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's 16. 16's a negative. Do you insist on voting? Please identify and vote. [[11:55:38]] For-83 The decision is not taken. It's number 32. Turn on Dubinski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u115	Committee position: we can support this, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u116	May I? It's my paper. So 32 revisions are about content that can provide advertising services. For this to be the case with financial institutions as well as advertisers. Advertisers can be like advertising, creative, and communication agencies. You're just missing a big chunk of people who actually provide advertising services that are responsible for the content of advertising and so on. So I would just like to clarify what might be, the right to provide financial services as well, there are those who speak to advertisers and their customers. That's it. Two words.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, Alexander Anatolyevich proposes to support this amendment. Please support and vote. [[11:56:51]] For 261 Thank you. For 262, license number 32 accepted. Dear colleagues, we have considered all of the amendments that have been rejected by the committee. So I propose a vote. I am voting for the second reading and for the whole of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of consumers of financial services (registration No. 1085-1). Please prepare for the vote. Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! Dmitri Soloczuk! Thank you. Please support and vote. Wait, wait, don't turn it on, wait, wait, wait! People's deputies, are you ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:58:16]] For 309 Against 0, hold on to 15. The law was passed in general. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have literally a minute to go. The Gerasim procedure. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u118	Thank you, dear colleagues. Dear Mr. Dmitre, this observation was made yesterday before the Presidium when the Hall has the right to determine for itself how to vote for a bill. We ask you simply to urge the hall to vote and determine, but not to impose any other law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u119	Thank you, Irina Volodymyrno. I hope that the Supreme Council of the Ninth Call, as in previous ones, will retain the right to freedom of speech, and it will also be extended to the presidency. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a break at 12:30. Please don't be late.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we get started, five minutes, we're a little late, let's get started. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the Improvement of the Legal Protection of Geographical Names (register No. 1065). The report is given by Podlasi Roxolani Andriyovni, deputy head of the Economic Development Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, good day again! 1065 is a bill for the protection of geographical indications. Let me briefly remind you what this is. Geographical references are the name of regions and places where products with special properties and reputation are traditionally produced, they are unique goods, they are all known geographical names, brandy. Having signed the Association Agreement, Ukraine has undertaken to protect European geographical indications from counterfeiting. This is the logical approach of civilized countries. If you have invested parts, resources in the development of your geographical name, brand, then your right to commercially use this name should be protected. At the same time, Ukrainian geographical names also receive legal protection in EU countries. The government is already forming such a list. It will include the Gutsulian sheep bristle, the Melitopol cherry, the Carpathian wine, the Carpathian honey, and so forth. This will definitely contribute to the promotion of Ukrainian exports. During the discussion, 85 proposals from Ukrainian national deputies were received during the preparation for the committee’s second reading, and three proposals were rejected as a result of consideration by Committee 82. As a result of the discussion, the committee adopted a decision to recommend Bill No. 1065 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, as a whole, to adopt draft legislation on amendments 81 and 85 on the validity of the law and on the committee's mandate to ensure the harmonization of terminology throughout the text of the bill and further technical and legal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u122	Thank you, Rocksolana Andriyevna. Dear colleagues, I suggest we move on to a discussion of rights that have not been considered by the committee. No. 72. People's MP Taruta. Don't insist. No. 82. People's MP Kulinich. Don't insist. Edit 83. People's MP Kulinich. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, all the amendments that weren't included by the committee, we've just finished and passed. Please prepare for the vote. Ask the factions, your fellow officers, to invite the national deputies to the hall. Heads of factions, please invite the national deputies to the hall. My colleagues are late, as usual, please. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Honorary colleagues, I propose and vote on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the legal protection of geographical indications (registration No. 1065). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:43:18]] For 277 Against three, holding on to fourteen. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have before you the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts in connection with the termination of the Ukrainian Act. Sorry about the adoption of the Ukrainian Standardization Act (registration number 1068), second reading. The report is given to the Deputy Head of the Economic Development Committee of Podlasy Roxolani Andriyovni. Let's get to the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u123	Bill 1068 is completing a global reform in the field of standardisation that the previous government has not completed. The point of this bill is that we are finally building on the principle of voluntary standards. The standards have already been voluntary since 2015 when the new Standardization Act became effective. So I want to point out once again that we don't cancel the standards, the standards themselves remain, but the use of them will now be definitively voluntary. All environmental standards, standards for the safety of non-food products and others should be governed by laws, regulations, and regulations of public authorities. The law will take effect one year from now, and all the environmental standards that someone is still using, even though they are not mandatory, will be implemented in legislation. And we have the principle of agreeing with the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use. I would like to point out once again that the bill is approaching Ukraine before the signing of the ASAA Agreement. This means that Ukrainian producers will no longer need to carry out additional certification in EU countries and will have enough Ukrainian certification. This, of course, increases the competitiveness of Ukrainian products. During the drafting of the bill, 93 comments and proposals were made to the committee on the second reading of the draft law, which resulted in the consideration of Committee 18, including in part and in part 5, of which 70 were rejected. The Committee adopted a decision on the outcome of the second reading of draft Law No. 1068 to adopt, on second reading and as a whole, as a law with further technical and legal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u124	Thank you, Roxolano Andriyevno. Let us turn to a review of rights that have not been taken into account by the committee. Edit number one, Maedic. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number two, Bondarenko. Don't insist. Edit 3, Marikowski. Amendment number 4, Bondarenko. No. 5, Marikowski. No. 6, Mayditch. Marikowski, you will. Which direction are you going to insist on? Shithead, number eight. Don't insist. Amendment number 11, Bondarenko. Are you going to insist on law enforcement? Oh, no? Amendment number 15, Shulak. Are you going to insist on law enforcement? Will you insist? Thank you. Number 22, Koleboshin. And so is 23. Amendment number 50, Kasai. Amendment 51, Kunaev. Mayditch won't insist, either, will he? Dear colleagues, number 81, Davidenko. Don't insist. Is there anyone who insists on the draft of this bill number 1068? Oh, no? Dear colleagues, since no one insists on any changes that have been rejected by the committee, please prepare for the vote. People's deputies please take their seats in the hall. Heads of factions, please ensure the presence of the national MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready to vote? I am voting for the second reading and the whole draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Standardization Act (Registration No. 1068). I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:50:04]] For 291 Against 6, hold on to 18. Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 232, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 20, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 9, "Voice" – 16, "non-fractional" – 14. Thank you. Decision taken. I give the floor to Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, we have one new procedure. On September 18, 2019, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted in a second reading and the whole of Ukraine’s Law on Amendments to Certain Legislations of Ukraine on the Reduction of Listing of Businesses under License (Registration No. 1050). According to article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to remove some disagreements in certain positions of the law. The proposals for reconciliation are given to you. They actually apply to a technical one, because there was a question about 5 working days, and it was going to be about 10 working days, and you can get to know it, and that's how it went to the legal office. So if there's no objection, I'm going to put this document to the vote for acceptance in order to remove this disagreement. Will there be any objection to that? If it doesn't, then I'm putting to the vote a motion to remove the disagreements that have been made to make changes to some. to the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the reduction of the number of commercial activities subject to licensing (registration number 1050). Please vote and support the people's deputies so that we can unlock and sign it to the Head of the Supreme Council. Please support and vote. [[12:52:18]] For 306 Decision taken. Thank you. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u126	Thank you, colleagues. I propose to include in the agenda of the day a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Bureau of Investigation on improving the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation (registrations: 2116, 2116-1 alternative). The report is given to the Head of the Committee on Legal Protection of the Monastery’s Denis Anatoliyovich. With your motives, turn on the microphone, please, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u127	I'm sorry, dear colleagues! "European Solidarity" wants to clarify the words of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, what do you mean "as they prepare for second reading"? What does this story mean?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u128	Printing material. Turn on the microphone, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u129	So now we're going to work on the hot plates again?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u130	No, there'll be one page. There will be one page printed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u131	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u132	Those materials you have are all prepared. There's only one or two pages. Well, it's a question. Yeah. Thank you. Please turn on Dennis Anatolyevich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u133	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement at its meeting on Tuesday and Wednesday considered and supported the inclusion in the agenda of the main and alternative bill on the reform of the State Bureau of Investigation. So please support the hall so that we can work with these two documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u134	Thank you. Please support and vote. [[12:54:43]] For the 250. Against - 4, held - 42. Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. The "Serial of the People" faction – 226, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 2, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 11, "For the Future" – 3, "Voice" – 0, non-fractional – 8. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to include in the agenda of the plenary and to adopt a decision the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the application by the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the State Special Service for the Transport of Military Equipment, Weapons and Special Equipment during a Special Period. We need 226 votes to put the day plenary meeting in order. Please support and vote. [[12:55:55]] For 296 Thank you. For 296, against 1, hold on to 10. Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 231, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 18, "Fatherhood" – 13, "For the Future" – 7, "Voice" – 14, "non-fractional" – 3. Decision taken. We need to apply the ad hoc procedure to deal with the issue and the decision at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[12:56:39]] For 273 Thank you. Decision taken. For 273, against 2, hold on to 31. Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 231, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 17, "Fatherhood" – 14, "For the Future" – 6, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 5. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have to look at them after lunch, right? After a break, right? And what we're going to consider is a reduced procedure, so we're going to be determined after lunch. Right? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u135	No, I think I'll have to take a break. We'll keep working, but... Yeah. Yes, yes, Irina Volodymyr. I suggest. We need to include in the agenda of the plenary the draft Law on the Verification and Monitoring of State Payments (registrations 1231, 1231-1 alternative). I propose to vote and include the above draft law in the agenda of the plenary. Please be supportive. The motive is Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u136	Dear Ukrainians, we want to draw your attention, dear voters, to the presence of four factions and groups representing 40 percent of the voters in the session room. And during these two weeks of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, no one, I emphasize, has ever been included in the agenda of the minority factions. Instead, we see that, once again, the bill of the day, which has the right authors, is included in the order of the day. European Solidarity considers this a serious violation of the rights of minorities, of the rights of our constituents. Therefore, we will not vote in favour of including any draft legislation in the agenda until the opposition bills are incorporated into the agenda. Excuse me, this Supreme Council, not only "ministers", but also deputies of other factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u137	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. I hope this Supreme Council, which finally understands that here all the national MPs, all the 424 who are servants of the people, and this is not the name of the political forces, this is the name and principle of the approach of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. So I'm going to go back to the question. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the plenary session of the draft Law on the Verification and Monitoring of State Payments (registers 1231, 1231-1). Please support and vote. [[12:59:51]] For 268. Against two, holding on to twenty-six. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose to vote in favour of the ad hoc procedure and to begin consideration of this issue now as other materials are being prepared. We need 226 votes. I would like to vote on the ad hoc procedure for the review and adoption of decisions at this plenary session of the draft Law on the Verification and Monitoring of State Payments (registration No. 1231, 1231-1). Please support and vote. [[13:00:39]] For 244 Against 7, hold on to 54. Decision taken. I would like to consider the above-mentioned issue in a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:01:03]] For 245 Against 13, holding, 52. Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the committee, excuse me, to the national deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Getmantsev, Danil Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u138	Thank you. Thank you for the word. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished representatives of the opposition! Thank you, by the way, for identifying me as the "right" MP whose bills are included in the agenda. And I want to point out that this bill that we are proposing to the Supreme Council for consideration is very important. And it's not a bill on the vetting of pensioners, it's not a bill on the withdrawal of subsidies, it's not a bill about someone taking money from socially vulnerable groups to fill the budget, as the opposition is trying to raise the public. It's not a government budget bill at all. It's not about income at all, it's about justice. Because if one person has apartments in different cities in Ukraine, in three or four cities, and for each of these apartments they get subsidies, it's unfair. If a person dies and the pension continues to be paid, it is unfair. And we suggest we don't check. We suggest not to cancel the payment, not to return it. We're just suggesting that the Ministry of Finance be given the opportunity to launch software that already works from April of the month. What might determine these problems and report them to the relevant authorities? And this bill is absolutely necessary. The system is running. But the bill is in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u139	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. The word for the report is given. Excuse me, the word for the report is given to the Ukrainian People's Deputy to the Royal Natalia of Jurievny on the alternative bill 1231-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u140	Dear colleagues! With all due respect to the author of the first bill, I still want to deny it. That this bill, which is now being viewed as the main one, is a bill of total testing of 12 million people in our country, 12 million of the same defenseless. Those people who get a $58. pension today. Those who are forced to stand in line to endure all humiliation in order to obtain a grant. Those socially unprotected families who receive cash to survive somehow. And so now that you're proposing a total three-level test of every such person in our country, I'm sorry, the fight against poverty can't be a fight against the poor. And today we need to start by giving people adequate social protection. When they're looking at the budget today and the next year they're offering $3 a pension, which is why they're now offering to check every family, look in the fridge, look under the bed, go to the neighbors, and ask how the person who lives, the respectable, well, doesn't have to start today. Today, all our efforts must be brought together to give people adequate pensions to give people economically sound tariffs for which they could pay and not stand in line, in these demeaning lines of subsidies. Today, families need to be given the opportunity to find a job and earn money so that they do not take anything from the State. It's today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u141	Let me finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u142	That's why we're proposing or adopting our bill, which, within the framework of the Constitution, will really lead to state finances today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u143	Natalia Yuriovna, I apologize, but the rules. Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to the Third Party Galina Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u144	Dear national deputies, no one is going to check people, they are going to check registers and records. And if it turns out that something has been lost in the lost passport register, it will be checked by the person on the lost passport. Or if someone dies and checks, in this case they're going to check out a criminal and a fraud who takes five to ten years to get social benefits from our public funds. The Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights considered these bills on September 13, this year. The members of the committee supported the Getmance Danil initiative on the implementation of the State Payments Verification. These are pensions, aids, benefits, grants, scholarships, other payments that are made not only on the basis of government social and pension insurance but also from funds and government and local budgets. This bill is aimed at raising the targeting of government payments and optimizing government budget expenditure. Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance has already carried out such verifications. According to this verification, the Constitutional Court, in view of the fact that the previous Supreme Council did not create conditions at the level of law, concluded the Constitutional Court of Ukraine that Minfin could not carry out such work without regulation on the level of law. So a few months ago, this work of the Ministry of Finance was stopped. Thus, after considering this bill, the committee proposes a draft Ukrainian Verification Act (No. 1231) to be adopted on the basis of the proposals made by Ms. Natalia Královska, the author of an alternative bill, so that no one will have any questions about the possible status of officials on the spot during such verification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u145	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. Two in, two in, two in, two in factions. Marikovsky Alexander Valeriovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u146	Please pass the word to Olga Sougiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u147	Olga Volodymyrno Sougir, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw attention to the fact that Bill 1231-1 has been declared to be in contravention of the Constitution of Ukraine at a meeting of the Committee on Legal Policy. Since the text of the bill contains a position that is directly contrary to article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, it is part of a committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that is not provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u149	Thank you. Kucherenko, Alexy Kucherenko, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u150	Dear Ukrainians! Dear National Deputies! Honorable Predestination! Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Now I'm going to try to explain very simply why, unfortunately, the "Fatherland" faction cannot support this bill, nor is it unified. The art of government is not just about passing the right laws and other legal acts under the right names. State administration is a complex sequence of logical actions that need to be harmonized with each other. I personally, as the Minister for Social Affairs of the Government of Timoshenko, have no doubt that the State has the right, and not only has the right, but is obliged to check all budgetary costs. It's a perfectly normal European norm. I'm the only one who wants to warn you that before you do that, you have to ask the state a question for yourself: and we did everything before that consumer of subsidies, for example, or other beneficiaries of budget money. I'm just reminding you, a few years ago, when the government called on all Ukrainians to go to subsidies, in every store, every TV just had a "take subsidies," who then informed people about the criteria and that they would then be tested? And now we want to punish them for taking that money for three or four years? Another example. And tell me, please, can I, as the consumer and recipient of the grant, check your tariffs, our tariffs with you, our price of gas that affects my income on my expenses? And the court's decision to cancel the gas price, the government answered, and what was the price of the gas when you were on trial, and Timoshenko won and proved that it was economically unfounded. So you're denying me the right to test your actions, and you want to test me? I feel that this is, to put it mildly, incorrect.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u151	Give me 10 seconds to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u152	Ideologically. I respectfully refer to you, Mrs. Galino, but we can't, because it's not complex, it's going to lead to reproach and abuse of Ukrainians, and it's too bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u153	Thank you. The word is given to Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u154	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, above all. When subsidies were introduced, it was an extremely important step that helped millions of families, millions of Ukrainian families to survive the winter without problems with heating and social costs in general. As far as this law is concerned, what I would like to pay attention to. Should Subsidies Be Ordered? Yes, of course we do. But there are great suspicions that this law will be used to take subsidies from millions of Ukrainian families, because look who's going to make a decision under this law whether or not to take the grant. Dear colleagues and respected Ukrainians, it will be accepted by a local official. You know, when we're fighting corruption with our left hand and we're legitimizing it with our right hand, I think it's a little bit of a misdirection. And finally. A presentation of Ukraine’s State Budget took place this morning. Unfortunately, there was no Prime Minister, although I believe that the country's main document had to be presented with the Minister of Finance as a minimum to be present. But we've seen that wages don't go up, and we've seen that pensions don't go up. And now you have the right — an explanation — not to a professional, but to a local official to take this grant from the people. So how do you think this is going to work? Therefore, there is a great request, fellow believers, when we adopt laws, let us consider how they will affect the lives of ordinary Ukrainians. And let subsidies be the defense of God! - have been taken into millions of Ukrainian families, we can't. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u155	Thank you. Royal Natalia Yuriovna, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I would like to take your attention once again, well, before we go to check the pockets of the most vulnerable people, let's do a background check, an audit, and how the state budget has spent the last five years. Look, we've been building NAB's organs, we've been funded there, DBD. We have a budget for the last year of 104, well, almost 105 billion dollars of funding for our security agencies. Listen, and let's check out these 105 billion dollars, let's check how the ministry uses the funds, let's actually do an audit of that budget project that was being considered today. We're going to find hundreds of billions of bracelets that aren't primed and used ineffectively, and then we're going to be able to raise the money that we're actually going to use to protect people. What is now being proposed? It is suggested that you start to check where billions of people have stolen for five years, not where they made money in the war, made a huge amount of corruption, where they spent money on roads, and no one sees those roads, and they offer to check not the billions of dollars, but to check 12 million people in our country who receive pensions and salaries. Your Honor, you don't have to do this. Let's check it out, let's tell people that we're doing a new job now, we're doing an honest job, and then we're going to turn to people and give them money to live a decent life in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u157	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, a minute of motivation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u158	Dear friends, good intentions are paved the way to hell, in this case to the defenselessness of our citizens. We know that the issue of the verification of public payments was the subject of a review by the Constitutional Court in 2018. And this year, the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional some of the provisions of the Ukrainian Budget Code that gave Minfin the right to receive information containing personal data. And now we're letting them go again. What's more, we're still creating a separate central authority that will take our citizens into a certain sieve. Are we shortening ministries or are we expanding and creating, producing new bureaucracy? Therefore, our parliamentary group urges us to abstain from voting on the matter and to remember that under the Constitution Ukraine is also a social country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time for discussion is used. I suggest we prepare for the vote. Please be prepared. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I remind you that this is just the first reading of the law, and I am confident that the committee will refine it and take into account the regulations and proposals that will come from other political forces, any political forces that are represented in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not just those who initiated this bill, which is what the honourable chairman of the committee was talking about. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I am voting for the adoption of the draft Law on the Verification and Monitoring of State Payments (Registration No. 1231) in the first reading. Please support and vote. [[13:18:25]] For 254 Thank you. For 254, against 19, holding 54. Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, we need to include it in the agenda of the plenary meeting, namely the draft Law on the Material Responsibility of Military Servants and Some Other Persons (registration number 1225). Please support and vote. [[13:19:09]] For the 250. Against - 1, holding - 59. Decision taken. I propose to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[13:19:35]] For 241 Resisting 19, holding 51. Decision taken. I would like to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:19:59]] For 245 Against 21, holding 52. Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kopitin Igor Volodymyrovich. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u160	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Please support the Ukrainian law on the material responsibility of military personnel and some others. At present, the material responsibility of the military is regulated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of 23.06. 95 — A position on the material liability of military personnel for the damage done to the State. But in accordance with article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the rights, freedoms and duties of man and citizen, as well as the principles of civil liability, individuals can be determined solely by the laws of Ukraine. As an example, the material responsibility of workers is determined by the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. Moreover, due to legislative changes, reform and the creation of separate law enforcement and security structures, the issue of the material responsibility of their employees remains overlooked. Nor is the issue of the material responsibility of military personnel and some others for damage caused by property involved in the national economy during mobilization. So the bill is important to the Armed Forces, as well as to other military formations and law enforcement agencies, as it will allow us to normalize material responsibility under the Constitution, because for more than 20 years we have been guided by the Supreme Council's decree, not by law, which allows guilty officials to avoid material responsibility. Draw on the material responsibility of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Police, the N.A.U.U.U., other specialized bodies. Unify the approach to determining the amount of damages. We propose to take into account the size of the minimum of living, not the money provided by a military officer, a coworker who is at the time. Thus, the extent of material responsibility will depend only directly on the nature of the damage done, not on the income of the person who caused it. I would like to point out that by no means will the adoption of the law lead to a narrowing of the rights of military personnel who are at war in our eastern part of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u161	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u162	After all, property lost in the operations of the United Nations is forfeited at the expense of the State. Thank you for your attention. And please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u163	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the deputy head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee of the Besugola Marianne Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues, company! Pursuant to the commission of the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee at its meeting on September 18th, the draft Law on the Material Responsibility of Soldiers and Some Others (Registration No. 1225) was considered. In considering the bill, members of the committee supported the need to define the material responsibility of military and other personnel at the legislative level, as required by article 92 of the Ukrainian Constitution, under which the rights, freedoms and duties of a person and a citizen and the principles of legal responsibility of a person can be determined only by the laws of Ukraine. At the same time, attention was drawn to the need to finalize some provisions of the bill in view of modern legislation and new legislative initiatives, such as the draft Laws, registration No. 1208, which provided for the liquidation of the tax police, and registration No. 1032 for the liquidation of the military prosecutor’s office. The main scientific and expert office believes that the first reading of the bill may be based on the following considerations and suggestions. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading of the project to accept it as a basis. Colleagues, in short, we standardize legislation regarding the material responsibility of military personnel while protecting military personnel from paying according to a decree that is the heir to the Soviet Union’s legislation so that they do not actually pay for a corrupt light from Soviet times on a fivefold scale. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u165	Thank you. Please register by faction: two in favour, two in opposition. Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich. Turn on Zabrodsky's microphone. Is your card inserted?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, I pay attention to the essence of this law. This is, indeed, the law that is now in the time, in fact, the legislation that is now being used is based on the legislation of the former USSR and its consistent development in the form of a 95th decree, which already contains many old-fashioned definitions and regulations, and generally does not correspond to common sense and modern European views on how who and what is to be compensated if it has caused some damage to the Armed Forces. The only thing I want to pay attention to are my respectable colleagues and, in particular, the composition of our committee, which, in fact, the law needs substantial work, both in terms of the understandable apparatus and in fact. And I hope that we will be very productive about this during the coming period of time. Our faction will definitely uphold the law in the first reading, which is what I propose to do to all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u167	Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u168	Please give Venislav a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u169	Venislav Feder Volodymyrovich, "Serve of the People" faction. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, this bill, as already reported on in the rostrum, is very necessary today, because, in fact, the material responsibility of military personnel is governed by outdated Soviet regulations, when state ownership was considered far more important than private property and property of individuals, and, accordingly, those military personnel who lost military property, regardless of where it was, were held to be responsible for the damage allegedly inflicted on the state. In order to protect, therefore, the rights of military personnel who can, like ordinary people, lose certain military property and thereby cause material damage are proposed to make changes to this law. As has already been pointed out, once again, the main thing is that under article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, human and civil rights and freedoms are defined exclusively by the laws of Ukraine. Today, there is a Supreme Council regulation that does not correspond to the Constitution. Therefore, the request to uphold this law with a view to enacting legislation relating to human rights, including the specific category of military personnel, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. Request to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u171	Thank you. The word is given to Murmich Anatoly Petrovich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life." After that, we move on to the vote. Prepare yourself, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention in this law to the following. Everyone's talking about the material side, but we can see that's not the main thing. The main thing is that the Armed Forces and weapons can be used, not in wartime, but in a special period. What is it? This means that a special period will be declared, both armies and weapons can be used against the Ukrainian people. This is a threat. And I see in this the basic thing that's been introduced into this law. I think it's a big risk. And you can't vote for such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u173	Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u174	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Valentin Nastavajchenko. I would like to make it very clear right now from the Fatherland faction that material responsibility is very good and we need to put order in the Armed Forces. But at the same time, we know where the fish rots -- it rots out of its head. We're looking forward to investigating and drawing on responsibility, and for material responsibility, and criminal responsibility, head of the Ministry of Defense, management of the Croatprom. And it's a very important moment. The material responsibility that must exist and function in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations must be touched and clearly defined, starting with the highest positions both in the Ministry of Defence and in the General Staff and in the military parts of Ukraine. And the last. The Fatherland faction believes it is very important to draw the attention of the new Minister of Defense and Government, who voted and supported the release of Ukraine, Ukrainian defence and security, 250 million dollars yesterday, the Congress of the United States, the Lower House. This enables our Armed Forces to use the security initiative by the end of the year. Why are we paying attention right now to the meeting of the Supreme Council with you, your esteemed colleagues? Because there is now an opportunity not to lose such military assistance and use it to improve the material security of our Ukrainian Armed Forces. And one more thing. The following week the matter will be addressed in the United States Senate. Next week the highest delegation of Ukraine will be in the United States. I think it's a good opportunity to go to the U.S. Senate to get this help voted out, and our Armed Forces, our Defense Department, have been given safe and defensive assistance, which is worth over 6 billion dollars in the sum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u175	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Law on the Material Responsibility of Military Servants and Some Other Persons (Registration No. 1225). People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:31:46]] For 306 Against 12, hold on to 5. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, put to the vote the proposal to reduce the half - time period of preparation for the second reading of the bill, registration number 1225. It's an important law, it needs to be processed and adopted as soon as possible. Please support and vote. [[13:32:23]] For 253 Against 22, holding, 40. Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services (Registration No. 1053/1). This bill is in the second reading. The word is given to Daniel Alexander Gettmantsev, head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Bill 1053-1 is proposed for second reading. It's a bill on childishization of Ukraine's economy, it's a bill on anti-smuggling, it's about stopping the use of large business single tax schemes for tax evasion. But this bill is not just about that. This bill is also about justice, about the fairness of working on a "white" business on an equal footing, about fairness to consumers who have to defend their rights, about justice to a state that is in a state of war, and about which tax evasion is immoral, it's justice for people. If you go to, directly, the bill and leave your emotions for a while, 412 amendments were made during your first reading to the Supreme Council Committee, 97 of which are considered by the committee. The bill provides for the use of an electronic check, that is, a simple system for the calculation of transactions via a smartphone, which should later replace the accounting transaction registry. However, we do not insist that this replacement become compulsory; these systems can work in parallel as much as possible. During the drafting of the bill, we took into account the following situations. First, there's been a transfer and an increased deadline for the implementation of this system. For the risk sectors – by October 1st, for everyone else – by 01.01.2021. 2021. In addition, fines have been substantially reduced. During the transition period, we anticipate a fine of 10 percent, the first violation of 50 percent, the second violation of the penalty. the normal fine is 100 per cent and 150 per cent respectively. In addition, there has been an increase in turnover for the second-group natural persons from 1.5 million to 2.5 million. The minimum amount for a cashback complaint is raised from 100 dollars to 850 dollars. In addition, the obligation to keep records on each of the originals of the product accounting documents has been removed. Penalties have been suspended for violating the deadlines for the registration of excise consignment notes and the absence of registration of excise consignment note. In fact, it is allowed to withdraw cash from the purchaser’s credit card when buying goods. And it's been specified.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u177	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u178	It has been clarified that this bill does not extend to anyone who works in the markets to the first category of taxpayers in the first place. Well, the market trade doesn't apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's been a proposal to move from several factions to work today as follows. Shorten the break to an hour, that's to make it take place from the second. From 14 to 15, so that we don't continue after work in Parliament, and finish our work at 18 hours. Should we vote for it, or can we make such a decision? Should I vote? Then I ask you to support this proposal and vote. Please take your seats as national deputies. Dear colleagues, we either don't vote and we make this decision in the hall. Vote? We've come to the point. We've come to the point, we can't vote, but I think it's going to be the right position. How do we do that? Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] After that, we won't finish the question until the second hour, we won't be able to change it later. Vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Questions relating to the organization of the work of the Supreme Council can also be voted on as part of the consideration of the matter. So please support and vote that we shorten the break for an hour and start our work at 15. Please support and vote. Vote. [[13:38:44]] For 261 Against - 6, held - 14. Thank you. Decision taken. Let's go. Back to the issue of rights that were not taken into account during the committee's work on the bill, registration number 1053-1. No. 2, Jujanina. Are you insisting? He insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u180	Thank you for the word. I'm going to have a few amendments here, so maybe I'll come out a little bit more in one minute, and then I won't put them on confirmation. I would like to point out to everyone that there was no way that the really short-circuited procedure for preparing proposals for the second reading of the bill could have been done. As a result, we now have a table, it's underworked, in a poor way. And that's exactly what my second amendment is, because from the very beginning, a draft law has been drafted in haste, and that's why it's one-third overloaded with the introduction of paragraphs, chapters, paragraphs in a new edition, while according to design techniques, it's only going to change. It would be convenient not only for all payers who need to understand that we are changing, but in general meet the rules of the law. I made all these amendments by working out the complete text. The task force said everything would be taken into account. That's why I'm here. But this working group ended at night.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u181	Let me finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u182	So I think that in preparing for the signing by the Head of the Supreme Council, all these amendments will be taken into account. And so from the second to the 41st amendment, I'm asking you not to bet on confirmation, because they probably are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u183	Thank you. We don't vote, yes, this amendment. Once again, turn on the microphone of Yuzanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u184	No, not for confirmation! This must be taken into account by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u185	Thank you. 5th Amendment, Labunska. Don't insist. 6th Amendment, Labazuk. Don't insist. 7th Amendment, Zalocksky. Don't insist. Zablock sent word to the Presidency that he would not insist on his writings. 8th, Labunska. Don't insist. Nine o'clock, Nikolainka. Don't insist. Is there a Labazuk in the hall? None. Is Labunski in the hall? None. Didenko, number 27. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who? Is there a woman in the hall? I won't. Yes. Andrew Ivanovich, 42 revisions. Eugene, 41st, I'm sorry. Uh, 31st? Partially counted. 31st partially counted. Are you insisting? Please turn on Belkovi's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u186	Your Honorary Presidium, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, honourable colleagues, I point out that this bill does not fully agree with the norm, well, what is proposed for the RRO and the programming RRO, and the requirements of the Ukrainian Act, which is already valid, on payment systems. I would like to use these few seconds to call on our committee to appoint a separate working group that would explain once and for all to entrepreneurs how in Ukraine after the adoption of this law, if adopted, all kinds of payment systems, terminals and so on will be used. I do not insist on voting, but I urge all of us to see that we may not have settled something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u187	Thank you. We'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u188	Thank you. Nina Petrovna, what remedy do you insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u189	51st.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u190	Since 51st, I get it. 51 lashes, Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, there are also some amendments, so I will speak immediately about them. Thank you so much for defining the software registry of accounting operations, we added that it might be a software solution that is used in any device and in which the fiscal functions are implemented through the fiscal server of the control body, which is what we came up with the definition that it might be a software. And now we're going back to 51 points. But if it's a software, we have a series of reporting definitions that will also apply to entrepreneurs who will just use this software. I believe that this is absolutely impossible because it is the fiscal bloc that will store all transactions and issue the required reports. And to overload, and to commit people in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u192	The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u193	We're going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Are you insisting, Nina Petrovna, on the vote? Turn on the microphone of Yuzanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u195	I am talking about both 51 and 56 and other amendments that are rejected by the committee relate to reports that will appear to ordinary entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u196	Nina Petrovna, I'm sorry, but are you insisting on a 51st vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u197	I do not insist on voting, but I stress that these amendments are not accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u198	Thank you. The next amendment you insist on, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u199	Next, we start with 69.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u200	Okay. 69th, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u201	See, now the block begins as these additional reports that we have in our business to make it clear that the second group, the fourth group, is also those who are trading at the market, will be applying the accounting transaction registrars from 2021. Now that all these successive standards oblige them to register these accounting documents and all the obligations of these entrepreneurs to register such documents are laid down. And then there's the block -- fines for not registering these documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u202	Nina Petrovna, next line.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u203	You don't need to bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u204	And the next one you're going to insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u205	Now, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u206	The committee's answer, please. Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u207	Nina Petrovna, you and I have been through all the electronic check technology in the working group on a number of occasions, and you and I have found that just one button on the smartphone is required to send the report that you so talk about. This is not a report at all in the sense of the reports that you are talking about and that you are now scaring entrepreneurs. It's completely simple and understood any form of accounting. Let's go without myths, and there are so many around this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u208	Thank you. Next line 71, Belkova. Don't insist. Nina Petrovna, the next thing you're going to insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u209	The other one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u210	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u211	82nd. First of all, I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u212	No, wait, if you don't mind. I'll find it first. 82nd. Turn on the microphone of Yuzanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u213	I want to talk about the simplicity that the committee head just said. The point is that this simplicity will depend on what feedback from the fiscal server is going to be given to every enterprise that works with a jack. And he's going to sign that document that's going to be formed by the central DFS server. Don't you have any doubt that we don't have any equipment, both technical and software, in the control body, and he's not responsible for dumping the entrepreneur? I proposed a special order of reporting, fiscal checks, with a total of 82 amendments. For what? Let's try to introduce blockhead elements, which is a system that doesn't manipulate the control body, as it is now and still with normal accounting registers, but not with a monitoring body, but for example with software that is inserted there. This amendment is rejected. Although, of course,
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u214	Thank you. Nina Petrovna, next number 85. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Next line is 97, Belkova. Don't insist. Thank you. 102 revision, Nina Petrovna. 102th, 103rd, 104th. 102nd. Are you insisting? 106th. Now. 106 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, it's scary here. Because we're doing the simplification that business is really looking forward to. If you use the software RRO, the software, it means that an electronic check is coming or you can use QR code to give the buyer a chance to see what you buy. But we clean up the obligation to issue a paper check. You imagine that this is the only physical confirmation of the public right of sale and confirmation of the buyer of what you bought. So the entire population of Ukraine, which, in the vast majority, is not capable of using and not being able to connect with boyfriends through the Internet to check an electronic check, we're depriving them of the ability to have confirmation even to protect their rights as a consumer. What are we doing? There is no way to let that happen. You have to talk to business anyway, but if there's a customer's request for a paper edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u216	Thank you. Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, this issue was discussed in the working group, discussed on the committee. In fact, this proposal is a proposal for FOPs, for private entrepreneurs to install printers. That is, if we accept this amendment, we are obliged to install all the printers. I'm definitely against it. It's categorically against that and the committee. So we think that in this kind of natural conflict between an entrepreneur and a consumer, we have to stand by an entrepreneur in this case who has to decide for himself whether to keep a printer and issue it on a paper medium, or whether it can only be limited by electronic form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u218	107th, Belkova. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u219	Dear Mr. Head! Dear Nina Petrovna, thank you so much for paying attention to this amendment. Mine's the same. And I'm paying attention to everyone in this room right now, that's your political responsibility. Just now, Mr. Gethmansz said we're allegedly asking entrepreneurs to buy a printer. But he didn't mention the other side of this political dilemma that's very interesting, which, otherwise, we're asking Grandma to buy a smartphone, because when she came to the store, and the entrepreneur chose an electronic RRO and says that he only issues a QR code, that means Grandma has to buy a smartphone. So I insist on this right to vote, and let the politicians in this room say who they're protecting, whether it's entrepreneurs or Ukrainian citizens. I'm voting for Nina Petrovna. I support both of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u220	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? You insist. Committee position. Briefly, if I may.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u221	Look, you're, I think, exaggerating the distribution of an electronic check to entrepreneurs. You're exaggerating something. Because you're demanding that every entrepreneur actually have this electronic check. But there's actually standard traditional accounting registers, there's an electronic check as an alternative, and we can give the consumer the right to choose how to get confirmation of the purchase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u222	Thank you. Edit number 107 White. The committee does not support this. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:32]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Next line is 111. Nina Petrovna, do you insist? Turn on the microphone of Yuzanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u223	138th my amendment, which I will continue to insist on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u224	Now. Yes, thank you. Yeah, let's go. Belkova, 128th. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, in caring for consumers, I also remember entrepreneurs. And here I have a question for the committee head and for all of us. So my point is, if we're talking about software RROs, then why would an entrepreneur have to send all the data himself, store it, and so on? Well, do any of you today have a responsibility for what is held in our telegrams, chats, and so forth? No, that's what RRO does for us. So it seems to me, if we're such a liberal Supreme Council, then let's accept my amendment and entrepreneurs will not be responsible for it, but they will be responsible for the RRO manufacturer as they should be. Please, I insist, back up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u226	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Olga?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u227	Thank you. Can I answer that? I'm convinced that you know the text of the bill deeply, and you know that the responsibility for not giving up this report is not in the law at all. So when you use the word "responsibility," let's use the word "responsibility" responsiblely. That's the first one. The other one. If you and I are working offline, where we insisted on the business we heard about, and when we get out of this offline mode, we have to press one button -- it's normal. We're doing it all in our smartphones right now and it's not a big deal, it's a simple mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u228	Thank you. Olga, do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 132 White. The committee does not support this. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:19]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Next item. 134, Nina Petrovna? 138, Jujanina. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u229	As we heard it, the citizens of Ukraine, two lies. First of all, the application of the software RRO. If the classic RRO is now more applied, almost all sales networks of different products will now have the right to switch to the software RRO because they do not have to issue checks, nothing. They're improving their working conditions to the point that they're going to dump these iron devices and work exclusively on software RROs. That's the first one. And secondly, this chapter refers to the taxpayer's obligations to transmit reports. And those classic reports that are now being transmitted using the classic RRO, because the memory of this classic RRO is in this device on the table. The memory will then be on the DFS server. So how can a payer form a report from a data generated on a DFS server? About that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u230	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u231	That's what Mrs. Olga said. She wanted to rule out this whole chapter about all the reporting that had to be sent to those who applied the software. At least make some software. Not only.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u232	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u233	Thank you, Nina Petrovna, for admitting that we are really improving the life of business. Indeed, it is. But at the same time, the little report that we propose to send with a single button is considered appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u234	Thank you. Don't you insist on voting? What is the next amendment that you insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u235	160.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u236	152nd, Belkova. 156th, Nikolainka. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, look, there's a totally out of order situation. I'll basically tell you. You've ordered, everyone will understand, you've ordered an online delivery to New Mail or you've got the goods at home. He comes by courier or New Mail. You don't get a fiscal check when you get it. And then you don't actually have the ability to get this fiscal check. I suggested the situation. Thank you, Sasha. I suggested a situation that would enable the seller to do so in three days, to bring this information into the system. Why this was not supported, I did not understand. So I'm going to support this because otherwise you just don't have a chance to get a fiscal check in this state, just a overhead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u238	Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u239	Our system is aimed at simplifying business, not creating additional obstacles to its introduction. Therefore, the committee proposes to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u240	Are you insisting? I'm betting on a vote of 156 people's deputies, Nikolayenka. Please identify and vote. [[14:00:16]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Next line is 160, right, Nina Petrovna? 160? No. 160, Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u241	Continued by what my colleagues say. Look, Mr. Danilo, we all want business relief, but if we're doing special activities and they're going to apply RROs, including software, then let's not touch the second, fourth group you're planning to translate into RROs since 2021. Let's try, maybe there'll be portable devices that will allow the check to be printed and there'll be my amendment, let's move it to the second group, fourth group since 2024. But you're not ready because without a paper check, we're depriving all people of the ability to keep moving in all directions. Don't do bad things for people, and for business, business doesn't thank you for those things either, and this amendment is about the paper check. I don't understand how we can keep telling people that you're going to have to look.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u242	Thank you, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u243	Nina Petrovna, the answer is simple enough. We live with you in the 21st century, in the 21st century. So whether we want it or not, what we're translating into electronic form and allowing an entrepreneur to choose whether to issue a paper check or to issue an electronic check is the right thing to do. An entrepreneur should decide for himself whether to buy this printer or whether to demand it. On paper checks or not? Allow people to resolve this rather than impose a new norm on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u244	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word is given to Bobrovska Solomija Anatolyevna. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u245	Thank you very much. First of all, before we take a break, I would like to proudly introduce the person who is in our room today, Mr. Nicholas Karpuk and Helen Karpuk, his wife, who is patiently awaiting him not just five years from Russian prisons, but 4.5 years from now, when a person is in prison. [[Applause]] Under the regime of resistance to Kuchmi, and, in fact, this is a man of soldiers who creates the history of Ukraine not only during a period and in a minute of Georgian-Abkhaic part of our fighters against the Russian occupation, but then the Transnistria, but also the one who chooses our independence and peaceful sleep here. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u246	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u247	Another announcement. The establishment of a new delegation in PARJE will take place at 2:30 p.m. in the towers, third floor, room 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-20-m0.u248	Another announcement, announcing information. On September 21st, at 11 p.m. at the Dynamo Training Base in Concha-Zasp, on the Capital Road, 45 will be a charity football tournament among the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Box of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We invite all the national MPs to participate in the charity tournament. Also, requests to the leaders of all factions and groups to ensure the participation of national MPs in the tournament. Krzemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The evening will begin at 3 p.m. Thank you.
