ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! Good morning! [[B in m in s a l in]] Good morning, media dignitaries! Please prepare for registration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. I'm that many. That's me. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? [[B in m in s a l in]] Are you ready to register? Please register. The pro-registration button is happening, I think. Please register. [[10:06:49]] There are 266 Ukrainian National Deputies in the Chamber. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, first of all, we have nouns, three national deputies: Mustafa Djemilev, Andri Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin and Alexei Igorovich Krasov. I welcome the people's deputies, and I think it would be a good thing to do to all the people's deputies. Okay. According to article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to give a speech to the people’s deputies with proposals, statements, messages. People's deputies would like to sign up for the speech. Mikita Ruslanovich Poturayev. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u2	Today, even under this disgraceful sound that comes from the gray batteries. Ukraine is finally burying communism. We're finally going to settle accounts with this maniac Lenin and the cannibal Stalin, who did everything they could to rob the Ukrainian people of their main wealth, the land. We will return the land to the Ukrainians once and for all! And I want the whole country to now look at the descendants of Yagoda, Jehova, and Barry -- the bloodstains of the Ukrainian people. These people are descendants of those who waged the famine, who killed millions of Ukrainians by taking away their land. There they are! These are Russia's mini-millions, who made the famine here and killed them, wanted to kill all the Ukrainians. Here they are again trying to take away the Ukrainians. Once again, they want a Moscow boot to come here and starve everyone here. But no! Today we will end this once and for all! Today we will bring the people back to the earth! Today, we will return the land to every Ukrainian. The Earth is human! The land is for the Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u3	Bondar Victor Vasilovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u4	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, you see the punishment in the Supreme Council Hall today, it tells us that one of the most important historical decisions to be taken by the Supreme Council. The whole world, all the richest countries in the world have been busy lately running around the world buying up agricultural land and drinking water. Ukraine has each other, one of the best reserves of land and one of the best drinking water supplies. All the forecasts say that 20 to 30 years -- there's going to be a water crisis and a food crisis in the world. Ukraine miraculously preserved its land, did not sell it just like that. Today, for the sake of further credits, we try to push through a decision room, and we immediately put the land on sale to someone. It's not an easy decision to make in one minute. Let's sit down, let's think about it, everybody's talking about it: agrarians, politicians, economists. It's not just a small farmer's question, it's not a small person's question -- it's a matter of strategic policy. Whether we're turning into a third-world country, just selling everything we have, or whether we're starting to think about it, and how we're buying up the world's highest-ranking assets, land, water and all the things that belong to countries with the highest level of development. So it's not just a decision to sell or not sell land, it's a country's development strategy. Think about what you're doing. Think of what you will do. And think you're going to explain to your children why you just gave up the most valuable asset in Ukraine for a penny. That's why our faction won't support such a vote today with the European gallop. And we come up with what we need to sit down and think about, how to make a market, what kind of market format or maybe just to leave the land in a state bank, buy into those who don't want to own land, but leave property, and rent their land for 20 years, for 30 years, to be stable and predictable. That might be the decision. Maybe something else. But it's not that for the loans you need to sell the last piece of money today. Think what you're doing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u5	Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich. Pavlovkit Ruslanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u6	Thank you. We'll talk calmly. Putin has a market for land. In the first year of 2001, Russia has a market for land. Come on, you puttins, as much as you can! You're tired, Lord. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Poles have the land market, the Hungarians have the land market, the Romanians have the land market. Are they better than Ukrainians? We are urged to think. But you've been sitting on this council for 20 years. Why didn't you think of anything? How much do you think? We have proposed a normal bill of thought. The president proposed a balanced compromise. The President and we all heard each other. Now this faction with the capitalization of more than a trillion dollars, the people who stole from the country, I don't know how much, it's NAB to count and count, now they want to deprive people of the right to earn on their own private land, to use private property. No conscience, no shame! Thieves! Thieves! Liar! When are you going to get drunk? I've known many of you for many years, since the time of the bush. [[B in m in s a l in]] Are you kidding me? Why don't I start talking about you right now? All we have to do is call Ryabosapka and Sitnik here and get you caught right here when I start talking about you, where I saw you and what conversations, what contracts. Surrender! And now they want people to have nothing to do with begging, because only beggars can manipulate. We'll give people their dignity back. We'll give people their property back. Ukrainians are no worse off than any European nation, Ukrainians are no worse off than Russians who have a market for land! The Earth is human!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u7	Thank you, Nikita Ruslanovich. Kostuk Dmitry Sergiyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u8	Good afternoon! I can't agree with all of Mr. Poturay's pronunciations, I'll express my position. I'd like to address the members of the "Serve of the People" faction first. We have to admit today that we are a minority in this room. Today there are such longtime supporters of the Ukrainian village and true patriots of Ukraine who are speaking against us in the session hall. He is a citizen of Israel, Rabinovich. These are people who don't just understand gas schemes, Boyko, Timoshenko. These are people who are gradually protecting Ukrainian peasants who are demanding a referendum. In 2001, when "bears" and "Julians" introduced a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land, there was no referendum, no opinion of people, no question of whether people wanted to be able to manage their land. These are political forces that have been gradually working for Ukrainian peasants for 20 years. 18 of them have a moratorium and we have that situation in the country, the poverty that the same political forces are telling us about on television screens. They create it, they talk about it. You can see that the lines are just rewriting the election programs. We need to do land reform today, make real changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u9	Thank you for your confession. Thank you. I'm primarily addressing the "Serial of the People" faction. That's not why we were chosen by the people, it's not why we won the elections, that we're now in this room bending under the political forces that have been stealing from the Ukrainians for so many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u10	The minute on the line is Rabbinic. Out of place, out of place. No, from the place, from the spot, will you speak, Vadim Zinovyovich? Please turn on the Rabinovich microphone. Out of place, out of place. Colleagues, we either take it. turn on the microphone. No, turn on the microphone. Well, ask them to take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u11	May I? Thank you. Dear friends, I have only one citizenship, a gift, a Ukrainian citizenship. [[B in m in s a l in]] And you're a thief who sells land. Pots selling Ukrainian land, pots! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u12	Thank you. Kisse Anton Ivanovich. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna instead of Kissa. Please, let me through.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u13	Dear friends, I'd like a little quieter and two minutes of attention. You know, in fact, you're right in the hall that you're bending under any political power, political leaders, you don't need any instructions from outside. But to whom exactly do we have to bend with you is to the Ukrainian society, to the Ukrainian people. And I think if we don't bend over the people here, then we won't do the function that we took on in this room. You know that today's vote is about that bill that was actually passed through the committee, and it foresees very important things. He predicts: first, the sale of land; second, you know, it's written in such a way that it predicts the sale of land to foreigners, that's fair. And when you vote in the first reading, know that you are voting, including for the sale of land to foreigners. Third. It is also provided for in the hands of a traitor, the distribution of land by 210,000 hectares, is three territories of the city of Kiev. In fact, we are opening the way with you so that in the global world, whoever has more money has Ukraine, and has the full meaning of that word. I can tell you that the essence of good government is intellectual governance. Because today the world is ruled by intelligence, not by emotion. And today the world is ruled by strategy, not situationality, and who will prevail in this room. And the intelligence of governance in the world today tells us that if the United States began to buy its agricultural land into state property and had already accumulated 51 percent of agricultural land into the state property of the United States, it is said that intellectual countries do not embalm what the Lord has given to our people. And I can also tell you one such important thing. I really believed that our President's program said that all decisions that matter are made only through a referendum. You know today, 75 percent of the people in the country are polling the company Ratings against the sale of agricultural land if the referendum was today. You know you didn't let the agrarians into these stands today? You know you didn't let them go today? And they are the people who gave us the right to make decisions here. And so our proposal is very simple. First, before starting the process of colonization of Ukraine, which is 72 percent of the territory of Ukraine, we need to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u14	Could you give me a minute, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u15	Dear friends, the first thing to do today is not to sharpen the situation and remove the issue in the hall, because the people are boiling, even if it's not under the walls of Parliament. The second thing to do is actually live up to the President's promise and hold a referendum on the sale of agricultural land, not to foreigners, but in principle of sales. The third thing to do is to learn the whole world experience and make the best use of the land for the benefit of the Ukrainians in Ukraine. And that's why we can't pass this law right now, and we can't sell out the last thing we have left. I'm asking everyone, everyone, please, before you press the green button, think of you entering the history of Ukraine as people, or as Ukraine ends in a strategic perspective through.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u16	No, 10 seconds. Julia Volodymyrna, 10 seconds. With all due respect, 10 seconds to complete. Ten seconds. There'll be a chance to make a statement. Give me 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u17	Ten seconds. Thank you. Or each of you will enter the history of Ukraine as a person who has protected our future. Just think about it. Instead of fighting in the hall, the future of Ukraine is important.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u18	Thank you. The great Sergey Anatolyovich. Please, let me through.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u19	Good afternoon! Sergey the Great, Lugansk. The question of sales is very important. And I'm personally, and Shahov's team against selling land to foreigners. But I'm going to talk about those who are under the ground right now -- the miners of Lugansk, who are under the ground in the second century, protesting the non-payment of wages. Mountain Hill: 45 miners are under the ground in the second century. Toshkovska Cave, Carbonite Mine. And unfortunately, the High Commissioner, Sukhov, Shahov, on the other hand, has to raise questions about the payment of the wages to miners. Colleagues, it is well known that the decision adopted in the House of Parliament does not make it automatic and, above all, remove the day-to-day problems of our citizens. Let me remind you that we all voted in the Supreme Council on October 31st to pay the miners' salary. And on November 7th, the President had already signed this law. In fact, however, there is no limitation on the delay in payment. But no payments have been made today. Honest people have not yet received funds that have been available for more than five months. And it's not the current salary, it's the debt for 5 months of 2019. There's a bad indicator that right now I can say that the next time I have to break that same question again. Because even if this debt is paid, we already know that it's due in November-December 2019. You cannot understand what you feel about your own touch. And I'm asking, and I'm asking the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Ministry of Profitability, the Ministry of Economic Development, with the proposal not just to collect analytical data, to listen to reports, but to visit the mines personally and go down to the miners, to talk to them, asking for help, and to feel inaction and delay in making payments on themselves. Only then can we understand what is really going on and how the miners and their families feel. Such idleness and attitude toward the problems of miners are losing people's precious faith in change and in the effective work of parliament and government. The last one. Now there are agrarians under Parliament and Kiev. And if the miners come in here, they'll kick somebody's ass. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u20	Thank you. Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, sometimes the state's position is determination and stiffness, sometimes the state's position is discretion and wisdom. Now, that's exactly what this is about. I think that any person in the room, even those who are going to, has already decided finally with the vote, has a question before the bill that has been tabled. I think everyone has a question about what this bill will be tomorrow. I think there's a question for each other. And so the attempt to put this bill to a vote now will clearly lead to a splinter in the Council and tomorrow to a splinter in the country. And so the wisest solution is going to be absolutely simple and obvious: to postpone consideration of this issue, to try to find points of contact, to agree and to go out with a balanced decision on the floor. Because today, whatever decision is made, it means that we will bury it and we will never be able to return to it again. And each of us will then answer to the electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u22	Thank you. Kucher Mikola Ivanovich. Igor Petrovich's staff.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u23	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Before I say again the position of the Future Group on the sale of land, I first want to address the official of the Servant, I have forgotten his name, the name K begins, which reminds me that the rabbi of the citizen of Israel, with the hint of his nationality, that someone had not previously protected Ukrainian land. Dear Servants of the People, I ask you not to go to such moments as we are voting in the Hall. Each member has his or her right to make a decision, each individual member is independent of anyone. I have a Jewish mother, I'm Ukrainian, I won't let her steal Ukrainian land. There's, as you said, a Russian, someone else -- they're all Ukrainians. If one of you tries to divide someone into nationalities, think about it, you're going to end badly. With regard to the market for the earth. The Group "For the Future" will not vote in favour of this issue, because the law is Syrian. Do you want to make a civilized market, where are you in a hurry? 40 percent of the land is uninvented. The people, the Pyovites, who still have acts of the Soviet Union of Samples in their hands, have no money, no peasants to bring in the digitization and inventory of these lands. 40 percent of the white spots, then the raid begins. You want to start a market, collect people, consult, find out what problems these problems will solve, pay for them, if they don't have to inventory their land, and give them a chance to sell. Yes, and we will uphold a civilized law. Take your time! It's about whose private property. Yes, people have the right to own their own private property. Sadly, though, those who say that we are restricting them will be happy to start working on this earth. Don't start! Until Nazbank's refinancing rate is more than 16 percent, and 20 percent credits won't start. They're going to go to commercial banks to build land, take loans, and lose what they have forever. Let's help them. Let's create a state bank that will lend farmers and peasants below 3.5 percent, state-owned, and if they fail, with an alternative, the land will be in the state, not in the merchants or in the foreigners. Let's help them do this without rush. And our vision of the state land, not the private land that is scattered, should remain in the state, should not be embalmed. Let the state rent it expensive, control it qualitatively, and it will always belong to our generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u24	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u25	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, in 1991, when my parents went to the referendum, when our country became a free, democratic state, my parents smiled. Today my parents are alive, buried in this raw earth. When voted in this room for the big "admission" by the oligarchs of enterprises, my father, the miner who raised me, came home and said, "The state is practically gone. But we still have land." When I was a child, I worked, there were six hundred lands, but we had and fed our family. When miners didn't get their wages, when miners came out in 1993, the stohani movement, and they took out the President, that was the same thing. My father said, "If they shut down the mines, we'll lose 70 percent of the state." And then one energy security vice-premier shut down Stahanowogil mines, 21st exit, Maximus. And hundreds of thousands of miners have left our country. I remained an orphan, as did my brothers, who also lie in the harsh land. Today I see in this room in the political sense of the children who have been given matches who want to burn our land. Grow up. Make a decision with your head cold. No, the sale of land," said not only the Shahov team, but said all the people living in Zakarpatt, Lugansk, Odessa. Just two years ago, my colleagues and I traveled from Chernigov to Snake Island with control of that shaft, a wall through which a mad rabbit could jump. What did we see when people said there's no demarcation line, there's no payment for pies, there's no compensation? First, we need to address these issues, the issue of agrochemical passports. Today the earth is being drained by biofuel plants, and today foreign transatlantic corporations want to enter and buy our land. This happened in Madagascar, this happened in many states of the world, 51 nations of the world today are suffering and starving. Our Ukrainian land was constantly feeding not only Ukraine, and Russia, and the whole world. Today we see 60 percent of imports of goods.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u26	Give me 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u27	Don't be silly. Will you be able to starve your families? Will you betray your mother and your mother be our land? You'll be cursed by all Ukrainians, literally, in 20, 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u28	Lucnyak Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please, let me through.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u29	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian people! I am today a major MP from 166th District in Ternopilsland, which includes ancient famous cities. Famous cities with a great history that had the Magdeburg Law, which were able to manage taxes, incomes, and could build their cities, their communities. Today, Ukraine has taken the road to total decentralization. What Is Decentralization? It's a way out of the crisis of any country. When Germany, which was broken up by war in 46, took a course and gave authority to local self-government authorities when the post-Radians countries of Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary could not develop their economy, they gave taxes, they gave authority to local communities. Today, we took the first steps. On Tuesday we passed a law that continued decentralization. But this latent condition cannot go on forever. We have made it possible for people to unite voluntarily. Now is the time when we must complete decentralization. Once decentralization is completed, we need to understand that the issue of corruption is such a waste in the state. Because money will not be shared in the Cabinet of Ministers, in the Committees of the Supreme Council, in the Supreme Council, they will share the organs of local self - government. Today the question of the earth’s market has come to light. If this land were in the community, they would have made that decision, and it wouldn't be that kind of thing that is in the state today. Dear colleagues, today we must complete this process that is going on in the state. We will no longer have a state of conflict, we will have a state of development. Today we see how our neighbors are developing. They build roads, they develop because local governments have enormous powers. Today, some countries are pursuing the third stage of decentralization and unification of those failing communities. We have important challenges ahead of us. For example, Canada, in states where every state has a different market for land. And when we hand over to the communities the lands that are today. This process is already coming to an end, and they will make decisions: to whom it will be sold – to foreigners, not to foreigners. What Is Today? Monopolization of power. Today, we realize that those taxes that have been paid are gradually being taxed. Today, the budgets of cities’ communities are being exposed. Dear colleagues, let's finish the reconstruction of the state and we will have no such conflict interests. The conflicts that are now taking place in the state, and people who really want to work in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u30	Thank you. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u31	over the legislation of the State. Please support this course: give authority to the community, complete the process of decentralization.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u32	Thank you. Showtime's up. But two factions of two minutes. The OPCW is Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko and after that is the "ES". Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs! I want all of you, I mean "Serve of the People," to remember today. Because today you're really breaking us over your knee. You're trying to break through the knee not part of Parliament, and you're trying to break through the knee most of the Ukrainian people who don't understand, are afraid and terrified of this draft law that you're introducing into the hall, which is called the "earth market." In fact, as of today, you can call yourself "the servants of the International Monetary Fund," "the servants of Soros," "the servants of transnational corporations," who lobbyed for this law. But you lose your right to be called "Serves of the People." And that enormous political provocation that is being carried out today in the hall will be terrible for Ukraine, because for the Ukrainians, the earth is sacred. It is not possible for a closed bill to be passed under the blanket, which concerns and is sensitive to millions of citizens. The very form of implementation of this bill is horrendous, shameful, and brutal. I call upon you, be amazed, do not do this, for from this day forward your fall begins. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u34	Irina Volodymyrna's character, two minutes. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u35	Dear Mr. Head, respected socialists and liberals! As a centurionist, I voted against the moratorium on the land market in the previous years. More loyally, against the moratorium on land, because we are right-handed in the land market. But look what's happening in the hall right now. Is there a key reform to be adopted in such a situation? There should be not only consensus in the room itself but also in society. We are very sorry that the "ministers" have lost their key hours, months, weeks in the Supreme Council instead of uniting around the key land reform, breaking apart and losing parliamentaryism. What's wrong with the law they're trying to bring out the "servants" today? There's no key -- the Ukrainian's right to buy land. Yeah, he can sell his pies, but he can't buy it. Why? The unforeseeable cadastre is a transparent earth. The other one. There's actually no position even removed as the quality of the earth, and there goes the equation of the fertile Blacklands of Cherkashtina, Poltashtasht and more difficult to process the lands of Hersonian. It does not provide for the protection of the earth so that people who cultivate it can invest in its quality. It does not provide for the creation of a land bank. It's not really just a peasant or a farmer being heard. And in this situation the best thing that can be done is, in fact, to postpone today's consideration of the issue, to sit together at a round table and foresee a bill that can unite the hall, protect the peasant, give the right, in fact, to create a transparent earth cadastre in Ukraine. Similarly, there can be no limit to handing back 200,000 acres [200,000 ha] in one hand. It's the creation of latifundists in Ukraine, it's already the official creation of latifundists, not the assistance of farmers. We are firmly opposed to such laws being discussed under a reduced procedure. It's not just the destruction of Parliamentarianism, it's disrespect for the people of whom you are servants. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u36	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u37	Our position is to remove this issue today and to have a serious political and social debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions: "The Fatherland." The factions and MPs of "The Fatherland" and "The Future" are a 30-minute recess statement. I'd like to ask you to lead the factions and the deputy and the First Deputy to meet me in my office. 30 minutes. Break.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u39	Good afternoon. Can we turn off the whistle? Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a request to release the presidency. Please, let's start our work. Dear colleagues, please, we do not take the place of other colleagues and, if possible, let each of us work in his place. The rostrum is open, if there's anything to discuss, please, but we'll work here. There is a desire to take a stand in front of the rostrum, please around the rostrum, but not in the Presence. Please release the presidency. It's probably closed, I understand. It's better this way. Don't push, don't push. Natalia Yuriovna, if you're not. Nestor Ivanovich, I'm asking you very much, well, the passage needs to be released and I don't want to repeat the pearls that were in it. Nestor Ivanovich, Nestor Ivanovich, please. Nestor Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I speak again, my dear fellows, I did not take your place. Now you don't allow other people's deputies to go in there when you've always come in. I'm just going to take that into account in our further cooperation. Please release the presidency.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u40	I'm talking to you, I'm talking to you. I'm talking to you, I am. I have asked you to release the presidency. This is where I work, Ruslan Alexiyovich, Olena Konstantinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u41	That's what you think. I've come to you. I never let myself come, take your place or your colleagues by the faction. Please. Julia Volodymyrna, I'd like to ask you to have the national MPs from Fatherland. Likewise, David Georgiyovich Arahami, David Georgiyovich, I also wanted to ask you to have the people's deputies release the presidency from the "Serve of the People" faction. Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna. Please release, then we will. Julia Volodymyrna, there was a break, I will be sure to take the floor. But I'm asking you to leave the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u42	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u43	It's not a parliamentary democracy. Julia Volodymyrna, this is not a parliamentary democracy. Julia Volodymyrna, I have a request: Ask the national deputies to release them. It's not a parliamentary democracy. I don't come to your office, for example, and I don't take your office.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u44	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u45	No, thank you. I think everyone has to work in their place, it's normal. Ladies and gentlemen. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I have a request to leave the presidency and take up my jobs. Vadim Evgenovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Please take your seats, get ready for work. Dear colleagues! So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please take your seats, get ready for work. It's not a simple day for us today, so there's been a long break, and I think that's enough of our colleagues with that kind of music, but that's their right. Yesterday. Yeah. We have a lot of different sounds and rubber products in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Arachami is a minute of motivation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, I have a proposition, because the question is very controversial, and we're going to be spending a lot of time discussing it now, and I can see it in the previous mood. So I propose to vote for the extension of the working day today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! Please tell me. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's how we voted. There is a proposal for the continuation of the work of the Supreme Council today, to what end? [[B in m in s a l in]] We continued our work this way, colleagues, so there is a proposal, let the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a motion for an extension. What? I think we'll be there in 15 hours. I think we're about to make it to 15. Dear colleagues, please continue our work. There's an offer to continue our work in 15 hours. Please, I'll bet. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to continue the work of the Supreme Council until 3 p.m. today. Please support and vote. [[12:41:16]] For 234 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the people" - 229, non-factional - 5. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the circulation of agricultural land (registrations 2178, 2178-1, 2178-2, 2178-3, 2178-4, 2178-5, 2178-6, 2178-7, 2178-8, 2178-9, 2178-10) Dear colleagues, since this bill is socially important, and in addition it has more than 100 articles, according to the Rules, we should consider it in full procedure. Let us move on to the consideration of the matter in substance. The word is given to the minister of development. Dear colleagues, the speech is given to the Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture, Milovan Timothy Sergiyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, during the meeting of all factions. One minute, quiet. We made a deal with all the factions about what. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, Yuri Kamelchuk We agreed with all the faction leaders that the performances would be from the rostrum, just like we did without writing down the opposition platform for Life. If these arrangements do not last, they too will not be followed by other political forces. All the reporters are speaking from the rostrum. Then comes another reporter who has to speak. So are the factions and deputies. Please allow the minister to speak from the rostrum. He's a reporter on this subject. The first bill was a government bill, please let me speak. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speech is given to the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u48	Everyone's just like we agreed. All speakers will speak from the rostrum, from any political power. The word is given to the minister of regional development, trade, and agriculture, Milovan Timothy Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a historic moment. I'll start with a quote: Margaret Thatcher believed in a democracy based on ownership, English is Property owner democracy. So she did her best to enable people to afford their own dwelling. It introduced the possibility for people to buy rents at reduced cost. I also believe in property-based democracy. Moreover, the Constitution of Ukraine says that the people are the source of authority and that the land belongs to the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u50	Similarly, we fight for the right of citizens to exercise their vote. So we have to give citizens the opportunity to manage their land, to give people who live in the land, to own this land, to enable the Ukrainian people to realize themselves, to give them dignity to each of us. Earth is the DNA of our people. And this DNA must have the sacred right of the Ukrainian to his land, as before, before this right was taken from the Ukrainians. Since its adoption, Ukraine’s land code has been based on the full right of ownership of agricultural land. The left share of agricultural land -- 27 million hectares -- is privately owned. We need the owner to feel like he owns it, not a fortifier, so that he can get a fair rent for his land, so that he can sell one area and buy another one that suits him or her more, eventually give the Ukrainian farmer the right to buy more land and increase his business. About 1 million hectares of agricultural land are being held in communal property and the community that we give more and more authority in decentralization should have fair income from rent or property sales. Crowds should have a tool to encourage the business activity of their inhabitants by opening up access to community land. Finally, we have to transfer 8.2 million hectares of agricultural land belonging to the State into the hands of effective farmers who love this land so much. The legal norm of the Code states that lands of agricultural assignment cannot be passed on to foreigners, to persons without citizenship, to foreign legal persons, and to foreign nations. It's a fair norm, and we think it should still work. The main thing is to ensure normal land ownership for the Ukrainian, to create a full market for land and to help Ukrainians acquire land. Over the last two months, I've spoken literally to everyone: from agroholding owners to the most humble farmers, from pragmatic financiers to the most fierce opponents of the land market -- everyone has their arguments for and against. But one thing is everyone’s dream of being successful on earth. This dream unites us all, and we must let it come true. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u51	The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Royal Natalia Yuriovni. I hope there's no one here to block?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u52	Yes, please, Natalia Yuriovna, one minute. Minister, please return to the rostrum. Please sign up for the interview. Rules up to 3 minutes. Up to three minutes is a rule. One minute to ask. Please sign up. Lucnyak Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, would you please tell us what interest rate you're offering today under the purchase of this land? And where will you find the resource? In May the agrarian committee of the eighth vocation held a joint meeting with the IMF, with all foreign banks. We had a question: Are you ready to take the land and give it money today? Which is why all the international institutions said, "No. Because you don't have clear legislation so that we can continue to operate this land and give it to someone in good governance." You're proposing a law today. And you need a set of laws to decide. Banking legislation, local self-government legislation, is a set of laws that should work in this law. And today you're just giving a nude law that's basically not going to give farmers anything in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u54	Thank you very much. The budget provides 4 billion dollars to support the agricultural producer. There's an extra 240 million for the loan guarantee fund. There will be two tools. The first is to allow banks not to get nervous and issue money. Because the state will guarantee partial coverage of the loan if the amount is not returned. An additional 4 billion will be used to support the agricultural producer and specifically to offset the interest rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u55	Thank you. Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u56	Mr. Secretary, please explain how it happened that the President's team has been working on a bill for 3 or 4 months, and we are now being proposed for approval, I understand, the tenth bill of those who have been filed, but there is actually no what the President said on Monday. I mean, how do you support a bill that goes against the President's will? And we're particularly interested in the position on the referendum. How do you feel about this and how it will go, please explain it to all of us in a very specific way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u57	Thank you. I reiterate that in all the bills that the government or committee has submitted, but I am in charge of the government bill, it is clearly stated who has the right to buy land. The other one. You are all nationals and you have to decide what kind of bill is needed for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u58	Thank you. Question time's up. Thank you, Minister. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, and answer when? We've got a review, 10 will have reporters. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, you will. Colleagues, let's not do cassuitism. Ukrainian National Deputy Royal Natalia Yuriyovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u59	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! Today, Ukraine’s future fate is decided in this room. And I want each of you to feel very good about your historic mission -- the land of Ukraine is at stake. It's not a commodity, it's not a hectare, it's not a black country, it's Ukraine. And now each of you will decide the fate of our country with you. This is our past and this is our future. And we need to understand that we will never have another Ukraine again. No one will bring us more land, no one will ever let us manage our past and future. Millions of our defenders have given their lives for our land with you. Our grandfathers gave up and vanquished the land for you and me. There was a lot of blood on the ground for you and me, and a lot of people died, so that this room would now decide what Ukraine would be like tomorrow. And as custodians, our grandparents passed on this right, and we will now decide with you how the country will live on. And so "The Opposition Platform for Life" insists on holding an all-U.S. referendum. So we think that's the main problem. Raise your hand in the hall, raise your hand in the hall to whom your parents and ancestors, to whom your relatives and relatives have asked people to sell their future and sell their land, raise your hand in the hall. One, two. Two hands! Two hands on the entire hall! Please tell me, why would you make that decision? Who allows you to decide the fate of the country today? And that's why we're now proposing to consider Bill 1101-1, this is the bill on moratorium and the holding of the All-Ukrainian referendum. Don't be afraid, don't be afraid to talk to people, don't be afraid to go and ask people what kind of market model they see and see if they're foreigners on their lands now, see if they want to give up their land for free today. Ask people to give you an honest answer. Unlike you, we went to people and asked. And farmers all over the country and thousands of people gathered under the walls of parliament today, and those millions of people who live in the countryside every day, these people gave us this right: the right to block the rostrum, the right to demand a referendum from you, the right to demand a moratorium from you right now. Because no individual national MP can make a historic decision about surrender today. This is going to be a real capitulation. The surrender when we surrender the Ukrainian land. And we're not right today to decide that question. And so the historic mission of our generation is primarily to unite all efforts today. To stop people from dying, to stop fighting in the east, so that Ukrainians could live in a peaceful and prosperous country. This is our historic mission. And to that end, we must unite with you to protect our country, so that our country is the only one to return Ukraine to Donbas and Donbas to return to Ukraine. This is our historic mission. Would you please tell me what you're suggesting? Are you suggesting that the replaced fields be sold now? Are you suggesting we surrender the land of Crimea and Donbas now? You're proposing today that tens of thousands of Ukrainians, millions of Ukrainians, be deprived of their right to own their land today? Why are you doing this? Why are you pushing people to fight now? And we offer you a normal proposal: put off the discussion of this issue now, quietly assign a referendum, quietly continue the moratorium. Believe me, is the IMF more important to you right now? Is it more important for you now to be servants of these international organizations? Believe me, people will never forgive that. And that's why "The Opposition Platform for Life" is offering to unite all of our capabilities and address complex issues that will bring peace to our country today. And we are ready to frame the shoulders of both the President and those who, today, through a diplomatic peaceful mine route, are ready to return to Ukraine for peace. Today, we need to work together to protect people. And this minister of economy here, who was telling us how to sell Ukrainian land, let him tell us better how to live for a half a thousand dollars of pension, let him tell people when the tariffs today are greater than their wages, let them tell us this model of the existence of people in our country. And, Your Honor, to tell this room that once we sell the land, we can raise the economy, that's a shame. Or do you think that, tens of years earlier, those parliamentarians who were sitting here, they didn't understand? But in the very criminal power, there was never a hand to vote for the sale of Ukrainian land, because everyone knew it would be karma, it would be karma that would pass through generations. And we have no right without an all-Ukrainian referendum to make that decision. So I'm asking you to just calm down. Call your parents, call your loved ones right now, and at least ask them if they will give you the right to make that decision, that decision, that decision, that decision for the future of our country. A little bit can lower the degree of resistance in the hall right now and figure out what we're doing and why we're doing it, who we're doing it for. Because in order to protect our future, to lift our Ukraine from its knees, to become independent economically, politically, so that we may be able to be a country in the future that everyone would be proud of to leave their children a prosperous and peaceful country, we must unite now, not to meet any international conditions. Hence, respectable colleagues, honourable national deputies, remain numbered minutes before the fateful decision to be made in this room. And we, your colleagues, very much ask you to make this decision on your conscience. Make that decision by realizing that you will return to your districts, to your people, to your families. Take this decision and see what happened in the past, how many of your relatives and loved ones have given up their lives, health for us to have our Ukraine today, have our land, have tremendous opportunities in the future. I believe in you, I believe in Ukraine, and I believe we will win, Ukraine will be strong and flourishing. Don't give up Ukraine! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u60	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. The report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Timoshenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, questions to the Royal. Natalia Yuriovna, Natalia Yuriovna, please return to the rostrum. Sign up for a question to the reporter, to the Royal. Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u62	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u63	I have a question for Mrs. Royal, also for all colleagues who are standing and blocking the rostrum. Please tell me you've been in power for 28 years. Why at the moment. [[Applause]] Why is 30 percent of the state land currently stolen? Where is this land? Where the economic development, where the village, is lifted from its knees, show us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u64	Thank you very much. Can I answer that now? Dear young politicians! We ask you very much. Mr. Alexander. We ask you very much, Your Honor, please make sure that at least now in Ukraine there is life in people as it was in 2013. Please do those tariffs, those pensions, those payrolls, those prices, please do that. You young and beautiful, where did you start? You started by inviting a girl like that here. You started by going into corruption schemes, you started by selling strategic enterprises and selling Ukrainian land. On Friday, you're going to give permission to open a casino. Your Honor, why don't you love your Ukraine so much? Let us now unite in order to give people the opportunity to live with dignity in their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u65	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u66	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich! I'm addressing you personally. These events, which are now in the hall, remind me very much of January 16, 2014. Friends, such opposition, such emotions, and, remember, the Head of the Supreme Council, the second person in the state, Janukovich's most loyal partner, did not go out to conduct the meeting. Dmitri Alexanderovich, a very young, promising politician, I believe in your future, refuse to hold this meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u67	With your permission, I'll answer that. Ivan Grigorovich, with all due respect, but I think that to compare what was happening on January 16 with the discussion about the land, even though it was not hot, there was an attempt to reduce, in a mild sense, the rights of citizens. Today there's a discussion, yes, it's wide-ranging, about the issue of the empowerment of citizens, namely ownership rights. Now we're not discussing what's right or wrong with you, here comes colleagues who answer questions about bills. But I think it's not exactly a correct comparison, with all due respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u68	Dear colleagues. Honorable colleagues! I want to read a little one for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u69	Turn on the King's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to read to you a little bit of the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine, which was adopted in December 1991. In the referendum, yes. "Economic autonomy. The earth, its nadra, its airspace, its water and other natural resources, which are within Ukraine's territory, its natural resources, its continental shelf and its exclusive (sea) economic zone, all the economic and scientific and technological potential created in Ukraine, is the property of its people, the material basis of the sovereignty of the Republic of Ukraine, and is used to provide material and spiritual needs for its citizens." Ladies and gentlemen, if you are violating the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine today, it is already a criminal responsibility. So please, we will protect Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u71	Thank you. Time's up for questions to the Queen. The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, right here on the balcony, thank God, missed our agrarians, I'd like to welcome them. [[Applause]] They represent the All-Ukrainian Agrarian Council, the Association of Farmers of Ukraine. They represent those who, from morning to night at all times and seasons, care for our land, cultivate land, work on this earth, live on this earth, and enable the country today to have a reliable food supply system. They give the country today the right to have a middle class and they give the country a future. Because if people like them, like them, we're going to have, like in Poland, 2.5 million, and we're only going to have 28 thousand, we're going to be a country that no one's ever going to be able to push aside. And I can tell you that the only thing they're dreaming about right now after they've been building their farms for decades, when they've been working hard, they haven't been able to get any credit, there's nothing to buy technology and fertilizer, there's nothing to run their farms for, but they survived everything. And now they only dream of one thing -- that they won't be touched, that they'll be left alone, that they'll be allowed to manage normally, that they won't ruin their future, and that they won't ruin their future. If they were sitting in this room right now in the MP's seats, trust me, none of the country's agrarians would treat the land so lightly. I want to tell you that today we're not just voting for concepts, we're not just voting for something we don't understand. We'll have a bill in our hands for which most of the people in this room will give their votes. Dear friends, take it, read carefully with your pencil. This gives the right, first, to sell land, to buy land, to give the right to Ukrainian citizens, and it does not say that Ukrainian citizens cannot be bought without dual citizenship. You know, in all of Ukraine's borders, including Western borders, today people are simply handing out passports, including neighbouring European states. And please tell me, who will protect you from the idea that Ukrainian citizens with dual citizenship, those who no longer want to live in Ukraine on the borders, will not then be subjected to the idea that the land they own can be separated from Ukraine, and they will have international law? The other one. It gives you the right in this law that you're going to vote for, buy legal persons -- legal persons, including, you know, even today -- with the participation of foreign capital. Seven million acres [7 million ha] of land now belong to those corporations that are registered in Ukraine but have a control package of foreign states and foreign corporations. Please tell me, are these 7 million hectares working for Ukraine today? No, they don't work, because we Ukrainians don't make profits from this land anymore, and each country is fighting to make its resources belong to its own citizens and to its own state. Can you please tell me the taxes are paid? There are double taxation regimes, offshore zones, and you and I are not getting anything today from 7 million hectares of our land. And the people who are standing on the balcony right now, and the thousands that are now standing around the Supreme Council, they are first living in villages, working in villages, they're paying taxes in their communities, and they're giving us food instead of taking raw materials outside Ukraine. And, dear friends, if we are now voting to give this law the opportunity to sell land, including to foreign corporations, you just know that after that Ukraine will no longer be a sovereign independent state, because 72 percent of Ukraine's territory is essentially the whole country, and it's the agricultural land. Now let's look at another element of this law that you're going to vote for today. One of the points in this law is that 0.5 percent of the entire agricultural land is in one hand, which is 210,000 hectares. I repeat, there is no such thing in any country in the world. Look at Japan -- it sells not more than 3 hectares in one hand and sells a few percent -- everything else in state property. Look at Poland, Germany, Denmark -- any country -- 300, 500 hectares in one hand at the most. It offers 210,000 hectares in one hand and legalize those agrohholdings that are now essentially foreign, with 600, 700, 800,000 acres of land in one hand. And then there's this beautiful thing that finally ends our middle class in the agrarian sphere. It says that all citizens who have the right to use the land on a permanent basis. I want to say that at the dawn of independence, our farmers were still being cared for and given 50 hectares of land, thousands of farms. It says that they have the right, not to own this land, but to buy land into property, at the same price as foreign investors. Dear friends, we are ending our country. And so given that time is not that much, I want to quote to you today what the European Union said about the sale of land. Today, a statement is made, not yesterday or yesterday. They said that one prerequisite for success was to increase the transparency of all markets, as well as to avoid allowing the earth to be concentrated in one hand. They're writing about it today. And they say that land-use policy, planning needs to be done in such a way that a small farmer can work. That's what we're told today. And they're saying that if we don't make guarantees for small farmers and develop family farms, it's just going to be the end of our land, our agrarian policies and strategies. And that's why I want to talk to you right now. We have only two ways today, not so many. The first is to put the country in charge of large, powerful transnational corporations. They say it's not bad. They say it's a normal way. Yes, they'll do better than us and the Crucifixion, ours, and our Crucifixion, and our land will be conquered. They'll normally build our Croatprom when they have it. And you know, today it's all on sale. But there's only one question: if so, and normal foreign corporations will build our country well, then who are we here, why are we here? We're slaves?Oh, my God! We're just servants? Each country in the world asks the question: Who owns the income from the resources that the country has? And if we go this way, and today we're just going at a high speed on this path. We have two thirds of the government -- people who worked on grants and who are lobbying big transnational corporations today. Well, then, you know, as subjects in the world, when there will be no participants, we will be just a third world country that will have no impact on us, including our lives. And we have a second path: to build our own national economy, including small and medium-sized farmers, small and medium-sized farmers, to build a difficult national economy and to give life to our Ukraine. And then we will be one of the strongest countries on the European continent. But it has to be done. But today’s law does not answer that question. We think we need to put this aside now, first of all, to have a discussion. Ukrainians need a model of agrarian issues, land issues like France, and there's a very clear layout and there's only land for their farmers, although there's a market. But they don't give any free market. We need to avoid this tragedy right now. And I want to address each and every one of you. Every voice will matter. Every voice of yours. And I'm just begging you: don't let this tragedy happen. Ukraine in our agricultural sector must be the number one country on the European continent.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u73	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u74	And we can simply become with you, having such good and such power, serving staff. Don't let that happen! Protect Ukraine and its land!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u75	Thank you. Question to the reporter. Please sign up for questions. Ioffe Yuliy Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u77	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u78	Mikhail Papiev, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Today I am addressing the Ukrainian citizens first, today is a day of disgrace for Ukraine, and, in fact, you will see today after the vote, as Vadim Zinovovich Rabinovich rightly said, "The Servants of the People" today will become "the devil's servants." We urge, first of all, the Servant of the People to mention their promise to the citizens of Ukraine that such important issues should not be resolved without an all-Ukrainian referendum. This is a huge deception that you're doing today with the "gratoids" and the "sorts," you're actually selling Ukrainian property, social property that's not being restored, this is land. Julia Volodymyrna, do you support an all-U.S. referendum? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u79	First of all, I'd like to say right now that I don't support your statement regarding the MPs of the People's Party. I want to mention that when we had to protect the gas transport system, the "Serial of the People" faction came to the defense as it had to be protected. And I would now like to address the members of the faction of the "Serve of the People" Party. I'm asking you, just please, any aggression between us right now, it can just throw Ukraine into a completely unpredicted fall. Please, please, take the side of Ukraine and the Ukrainians. 75 percent of Ukrainians today are against the sale of agricultural land to foreigners, not foreigners, you cannot, as people who have declared protection today in Ukraine, vote against the will of all Ukrainians. And I'm asking you, let's not pass these laws right now, but at the same time we're going to create a strong, intellectual team that's going to be behind the development of a real agrarian reform, which is real.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u80	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u81	which takes into account all the best world experience, and it is today in the world, and we will make for Ukraine the path that we will all be worthy of. Don't give it to me today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u82	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u83	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, I appeal to you again. Think of numbers that have never sounded before. In the world, some 2.5 billion acres [2.5 billion ha] of agricultural land. These have been reduced by a third over the last 20 years and continue to be reduced. The land is processed by 550 million farmers, 500 million of whom are a family farm. Divide and you'll see: 5 hectares in one hand. That's how the whole world develops. Employment, hard work. It doesn't smell like agroholdings and latifunds. Guys, I'm just calling you. Ukraine, the farm arrangement, the family farm, is the beacon of our proposed law. Let's put off the question today. We have parliamentary hearings ahead. Let us listen to each other and then make a balanced decision. But there will be a market for the land for its farmers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u84	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. Turn on Tymoshenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I think Ivan Grigorovich has just said a very important thing. You can see that every country in this world statistics counts every inch of their land. Israel holds 91 percent of its land in a state fund and gives no money to anyone. Canada owns 90 percent of its property, and it doesn't waste money on anyone. In order to sell an inch [centimeter] of land, France first asks the agricultural producer to work for nine years and to show that he is able to process the land, and then he is given the right to buy it. Small and medium-sized farmers are our All-Ukrainian Agrarian Council. They are willing to work on their land. Give them the right to do so. Let's start a big discussion in the U.K. And we'll do as Ukraine does better. We're not on different sides of the barricade with you. We're not different people. We're all Ukrainians sitting here in the hall. And we can't stand for political opposition to show who.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u86	Thank you. The report is given by Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich, a national deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u87	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, there are almost no people in the towers, they're all on the balcony or near the big TV, or they're sitting on the boards: the whole country is dead and listening to each of us, listening to the performances that come out of this high hall. Today, believe me, for Ukraine and the Ukrainians, time "C": either we're going to practice European values, we're going to make the right agrarian policies, and we're going to make a gradual transition to the kind of relationship that changes ownership rights or property rights, or we're going to sell our land to transnational corporations and speculators. You know, I haven't recently become a national deputy, but I never thought that a national MP could be so easy, balanced as to refer to those bills that are being handed out. Colleagues, two months ago, the president in Parkovo was gathering and saying that there would be no speculative or alien possession of Ukrainian land. But at the same time, the People's Party brings a document to Parliament, allowing foreign companies in largely Ukrainian law to buy Ukrainian land in front of farmers. Such agrohholdings and such owners of these companies are now renting nearly 8 million acres [8 million ha] of Ukrainian land. You, servants of the Ukrainian people, are giving 8 million acres to whom? And you're holding a mysterious agrarian committee. What confidence can there be in any appeal of authority when one hand speaks one and the other hand brings this filth? Colleagues, I remember all of you in 2002, when you adopted the Earth Code and then imposed a moratorium. When people were given the opportunity to get property, they thought about how they would give people the opportunity to use it and then sell it. Tell me, what have you done as servants of the people to let people use their own land, to let people use this tool of production to make money on this earth? What did you do to legalize 4.5 million actual farms that produce agricultural products? Ask what? You don't give people the opportunity and you don't let them start using their own land, you let them go to another stage right away. Colleagues, such as this, have appeared to us small - earthed peasants who today are standing before the Supreme Council, who are standing on the balcony today. Then we also developed latifundos, so we developed agroholdings. Because no one in the state has given them the opportunity to use it, it's cheap loans, it's budget support and support, and it's all about them. Do we not remember who had received this support all these years? And we fought against it. Colleagues, history will judge us. But I wish you wouldn't be studying pornographic sites, and I'm talking to some of my colleagues, and you've been studying the experience that you've had with expert analysts and think-tanks. We tried to hand you out yesterday so you wouldn't only study in Rabbit, but now, look what happens to countries where a transnational speculator enters. There is poverty, and there is still poverty. All over the world, any circulation of land is regulated, strongly regulated by this land market. Only a farmer has access, and a small farmer has the right to do so. If you don't want to do agriculture, no one will give you land. In France at all, rent, show that you will spend your own money on business, buying technology, and then come and think about how to buy this land. This is the appropriate agrarian policy that you and I should think about, not the kind of crap that they give you. 2194: Lands of special value. We don't have them? Under the State’s Constitution, article 150 is repealed. Colleagues, are you and I thinking for the people or for the purpose of exhausting our black lands? The sums are being cancelled, the state control over land protection is being revoked. Is it the philosophy of the state to cancel the control of land philosophy and import uncertified chemicals here? That's how we have agrarian politics! Look at the laws that they give away. Colleagues, FTCs, data storage in different institutions. Do you know what that means? We invite the raiders with you, and then we fight, make changes to these bills. We invite the raiders. Because one village council is going to change the data in another rural council. Isn't that right? Are these not the laws that you have made and made in this House today? Where, why are we in a hurry? Colleagues, I'm not saying that interference with the register is going to be from outsiders. And the auctions, the Trades Act. Do any of you know what the difference is between regulatory valuation and expert valuation or market value? Do you know how different it is? So let me tell you, it's 50 percent different. I bought it for the legal money and sold it for the market in the state. You'll never fill a budget like that. And if the government doesn't know that, then I'll tell you, there's going to be a speculator who's going to buy, take three steps, and then sell more. Why are you doing this, please? Finally, I'll say the following things. Isn't any reform supposed to go exclusively to people? For whom exactly are you conducting this sale to Ukraine, for whom? The owners of the land rations. Yes, we have proposed, and this is in this bill, and in the last bill of Julia Timoshenko. Those who want to sell their pie sell to the state or the local community. What's the problem? The owners took advantage of the property and sold it. What did the territorial community do? But she gave it to these farmers. She gave it to those who kept this social infrastructure in the village all the time, and she gave it to those who actually lived there. And the common agricultural policy of such people is called soulal farmers. Not those who watch from a satellite, sorry, and sit on yachts, looking for their combines, namely, for those who live, work, and create jobs. Colleagues, for whom do you do this reform? Colleagues, please tell me, and the people who keep telling you in social studies today are against 72 percent, against, against, against, against, against, against, against farmers. Well, why are we bending over our knees today? Next offer, colleagues. Let's sit down and really develop that agrarian policy that is needed today, first of all, by the Ukrainian. Let's take care of national security, food security. Those colleagues, as they look at pornographic sites, please take the books of experts and think tanks that will show the experience of each country, whether it's Argentina, which is said to be the United States, whether it's France, Germany. In general, Poland has banned the land market – only through the courts. Latvia, when it went to such a liberal market, now Latvians are trying to rent land in Danish, Swedish. Is that what we want you and me to do for the wounded or the people who are going to work and create jobs? That's what the Institute of Agar Economics is developing, and that's what we need to study. Colleagues, we ask only, we ask that you do not perish the Ukrainian society. We ask you to listen to people who have come to the Supreme Council on several occasions to study the laws that lobbyists impose on you. And most of the time, I want to tell you, you're being pushed to the ground, the system of land relations is being destroyed in the next law, and there's a whole bunch of speculatives in the trades. This is imposed on you because you do not read 340 pages. And these lobbyists are doing their job for money. I address each of you. We reject, colleagues, and we sit together with agrarian associations without politics, and we form the agrarian system that is needed in Ukraine. As Fatherland, we were protecting a normal agricultural system. It's not a speculator, it's a farmer, it's a Ukrainian retailer. And I am grateful to those who are standing today. Today, here in the Supreme Council, and I am grateful to everyone who has been blocking roads for several weeks now, to block the Supreme Council so that they can be heard. You are servants of the Ukrainian people, please listen to the servants of the people, Ukrainians and what the Ukrainians say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u88	Will there be questions for the reporter? You don't? Sign up for questions. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u89	Dear friends, today is an amazing figure from the Prime Minister's mouth. Shadow equipment with land amounts to $10 billion. How do you quickly remove these items? The Hall will unite one decision: Lands outside the community — communities! The next step, the communities are going to do inventory, they're going to do it very quickly -- and where is this shadow? Friends, $10 billion will go very quickly to the development of local communities, to rural development, to rural infrastructure, to schools, kindergartens, roads, and so forth. It's not in the bill that we're looking at first. Today, we postpone consideration and vote where decentralization becomes complete. The land is a rural community, it is rented to efficient farmers and it has a source of development. The development of leases is the future of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u90	Ivan Grigorovich, thank you. I know that you and Fatherland and our agrarian team have done and do in order to be a just agrarian in the country is fair. I want to say, colleagues, we and these bills, we put bills into these proposals. How difficult it was for us to accept the Law in our previous calling for family farming! Four and a half million single farms that do not have the status of a manufacturer. You're eating something today that doesn't match quality and safety. We offered a mechanism, 20 percent of these people are ready to become a family farm. A million jobs, a million people who buy 10 to 20 hectares -- 20 million -- and the holdings will disappear, the colleagues will disappear. And it's an agricultural policy that we've always pained and embodied in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u91	Thank you. Zablockian Marian Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u92	Thank you. Vadim Evgenovich, I have here in my hands a fine bill from 2008 by Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko on the land market. This bill cancels the Moratorium for the purchase and sale of agricultural land, and even so the articles are called, you see where article 9 - sale of agricultural land, article 10 - the characteristics of the sale of agricultural land, and also allows purchase not only to foreigners but also to foreign companies, foreign states. Look, it's happened once that you have one position in power, and the opposition is absolutely the opposite. And maybe we'll do it this way, I have a constructive proposal, let's say if you don't like our bill, I'm willing to vote in full for the bill that you proposed in 2008 on canceling the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u93	I understand, Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u94	Dear friends, yes, I have one minute of replica. Well, first of all, this beautiful man, Zablock, represents the great agroholding oligarchic "Kernell" and essentially owns 600,000 acres of land today. And this is the person who is lobbying these black laws for money today. I want him to read that there's a code for land, not agriculture. This was about selling non-agricultural land, including foreign embassies and so on. It's a whole other thing, you just have to read it, not provoke it here. And you, Mr. Zablotsky, representing an agrarian oligarchy here, will not be doing politics in the country, you will be sitting for everything you've developed for Ukraine, and because you've taken VAT from the budget, which you haven't paid to the state, because that's what agroholding does. And I want to tell you that if we have them in the country and keep the oligarchs doing politics, not these farmers and farmers, there's no future in the country. We need to put these grumpy oligarchs in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u95	Thank you. The speech is given by Savichuk Oksani Vasilovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u96	Oksana Savchuk, city of Ivano-Frankivsk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I want to tell you a few things today. There was a great deal of talk from this rostrum, and much more will be heard. And everyone will try to convince each one of us whether we will make the right decision today or not. But each decision has its own responsibility. In fact, in this room, we make decisions for which we will be responsible. I want to quote an article of the Constitution today. According to articles 13 and 14 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the land is an object of property rights of the Ukrainian people and of the basic national wealth under special protection of the State. No one can deprive the Ukrainian people of their basic national wealth. No one means: neither the Parliament of this calling nor the next. Because the earth is the property of our future generations. We also received this property from our predecessors. Let's take a little look at the past of what it's all about. We have forgotten that the Ukrainian people had the same Holodomor when the Ukrainians did not own their land. And then they died, and there was the Three Wheels Act, and when hundreds of Ukrainians were tired of genocide because it was convenient for our enemies. Today, however, Ukrainians have the right to their land, have the same pies of land, and are able to process them. Is this a situation perhaps ideal? No, it's not perfect. But how do we now answer the question? Let's literally analyze all of the things that have happened in the last month. Not so long ago, and just in the last month, the laws on the market for land have come into Parliament rapidly. We did not start any discussions with society, so there were so many bills that had not been discussed. How was the agrarian committee discussed? As soon as the public discussions began, the farmers, the media representatives, who came to the various political forces and began to argue, the opening of the agrarian committee ended and the next agrarian committee met in secret and in eight minutes considered 11 alternative bills. So, honourable colleagues, although this is to be reported to you, that on the agrarian committee, all the bills were discussed in eight minutes, which gave us great anxiety and Ukrainian society, too, which today, including those in this room, are on top of it, and they are looking at what decision we are going to make today. Whether we will hear Ukrainian people or even hear our neighbors because each of us is from a different part of Ukraine. In fact, Ukraine is a very fertile land. You know very well that all these areas, agricultural lands that are being processed now, have a very large percentage of crops. So let's think about how the Germans transported the Ukrainian black to their home in tons, and we can understand very well that our land has great value. And today we're talking about putting it freely into the market. But let's be realistic. And the reality is that today the Ukrainian farmer won't be able to compete, but we all know it in our souls, but he won't. He won't be able to buy land at auction, he won't be able to have free access to those loans to take them. Let's even do it. You each have friends who know each other, who work a little bit on the ground. I'm still representing Western Ukraine. And you know, a lot of my acquaintances, especially the territory where I am, this is Rogatine, this is a land that is extremely fertile. They're ready to go to Poland or Poland or the Czech Republic tomorrow, and they're happy to be accepted and given all the conditions because they went there because our Ukrainian people are very busy. But what do we suggest in return? In turn, we propose to great agro-holders and foreigners to buy our land because, once again, a bill supported by the committee says, first of all, that those who have leased land for the last three years have a priority right. And you know very well who rents Ukrainian land, there are small entrepreneurs, but there are large agroholders. Few places where farmers rent this land are always in dialogue with the rural community. Believe me, when a community of villages calls to them, they hear them. Why do they hear them? Because they rent this land. If they own it, do you think they'll hear? But they're closing our roads, our bypasses, and they're setting up a "No" sign. Private property." And we're going to have the same situation as we have with the beaches and the seas that people can't get out of their territory, because it's clearly written, "Private property." And the same thing, this private property, we want to start in Ukraine. I urge everyone today, regardless of party membership, to say clearly that we are not ready to vote in this format. We are representatives of the Ukrainian people. Such an important socially irritable issue, such as the Ukrainian land, cannot be discussed in secret in eight minutes. It can't be cynical when you smile, you can say, "You know, whatever you say, the decision's already made." Because the decision, colleagues, is not made today. It is accepted in the Ukrainian Parliament. And I have a very strong hope that the new Ukrainian Parliament will be another Parliament, one that we have declared. For, you know, it is often said that the one who is worthy of carrying out his mission is worthy of honor and respect for the future of his family and his family. And today we are also responsible for the future of our family, because our voice is what our children will have in the future. You remember very well when they said in the early '90s that it was necessary to sell strategic and invaluablely privatize strategic Ukrainian businesses. Instead, we got what? That important strategic things have moved into private hands. You say private property is good. So why is Novoyavorsky still not warm? It's because the boiler is private, not state. You're saying we'll be stronger. We've already given up nuclear weapons. And when the war came, we regretted it. You're saying we're going to have equal opportunities. We will not have equal opportunities on Ukrainian soil if it is purchased by foreigners. But they just want us to open up this market and take away our high-quality black lands. Let's be realistic. We know very well where our grains are going. In the summer, when I was on vacation, I could never think, I had never seen in my life, near 62 furs that were filled with Ukrainian grains that went to pass them on to Saudi Arabia and other countries. 62 Furies. You can imagine what a column that is. And this is our Ukrainian grain, which we are happy to buy. And we say we're not competitive. And if we look at what's going on in the world right now, and what's at stake now, we understand very well what's on the agrarian sector, on the ground, and what's on the food. And when we're looking for our mission today, we have to bet that we have both animal and plantation and plantations and grains growing so that our Ukrainians can stay and produce products on our Ukrainian land so that they can have loans to buy technology. And then they'll want to stay home and not go abroad, be with their family, develop these territories, take care of them. I want to say another thing. Today, there will be a great deal of breaking of vocabulary. Oh, my God, it's just words. But today's decision is a viable one. There were so many people gathered in Midan. People were gathering, and here they are, and today they're standing there. I want to thank all my friends and colleagues, all the different political forces, it doesn't matter. But "The All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom and Nationalists has always been in the only position: Ukrainian land should belong exclusively to the Ukrainian people, Ukrainian land is not goods, it is not sold. Let's not sell Ukrainian land! We're against selling the land market! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u97	Thank you. Will there be questions for the reporter? Sign up for the performance. Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u98	Alexia Hotcharenko, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u99	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u100	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko. Dear friends, I'd like to draw your attention to the following. We were promised by the President of the People's Council, he said that all of the principles of the decisions would be discussed with the people. Where is this discussion with the people where the referendum they are talking about? It's a hoax. We're going to hold a referendum there sometime after the law and only one question: whether to sell to foreigners or not. And the local oligarchs don't want to ask? And to go out to the people, this is a faction of the mad, great, hundreds of people, the "Serial of the People" faction, there are people standing there, protesting who went out to talk to them, who went out to answer their questions? So the question is very simple. Does the honourable reporter support the fact that the question of principle is to be considered, in fact, first in the referendum and then to write the law and put it into the session room? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u101	First of all, a few more thesis from what I started. We have to follow all legal procedures. If we want to be a parliament that acts according to European parliamentary rules rather than dictated somewhere under the carpet, we must first come to public hearings, listen to each side, and take this bill out of consideration, supported by the agricultural committee. I call on the agrarian committee to call off this bill at all, which you supported, because you know perfectly well that it is supported. I don't agree with all the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u102	Chigos Ahtem, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u103	Please give to the potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u104	Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u105	See what else is interesting. The president was so pleased to see us when we considered some of the important questions there. Why isn't Greensky in the session room today? Is the question of the earth’s market irrelevant? Does he think that the project he and his team have proposed, which in fact does not foresee the creation of a land market, but foresees the creation of a "bazar" on which Ukrainians can only come out as they carried out the last thing in the early '90s, bring out the last and sell their pie. Because the Ukrainian farmer can't buy land under this law. Because it is not possible for the Ukrainian to buy to work on his native land today under this law. And neither did the President come to us to present this law nor to answer the questions that are before him in society.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u106	Thank you. I think it's not a question, it's a performance, and then the time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u107	Thank you. I just want to say that we do too.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u108	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u109	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Ladies and gentlemen, have each of you seen the movie "300 Spartans"? I suppose, yes, you don't have to raise your hands. Please tell me, when the MP from Darius came to Leonidas, what did he ask? He asked for everything with a smile on his face and on the ground, they didn't need anything from Greece anymore. What did King Leonidas then say? He sent him to the chasm without fear of standing up for his native land, which Jehovah had commanded them. Each of us today should think whether to vote or not or to sell his family, his mother, his own children, or not to sell for slavery. What transatlantic companies and corporations will enter our country, buying our land for what? In order to secure our resources. Today, 56 nations of the world are starving -- third-world nations that have sold their land to pay off debts to foreign partners. Can we call foreign partners those who, during the war today, demand that we sell our own land? Why will Ukraine’s debt not be frozen today? We're proud, we're going to give up, every year it's 47 percent of Ukraine's GDP, it's 500 billion dollars. What can be done for 500 billion dollars? Gold roads, new businesses, new infrastructure, and then the profits to pay off. Who today, raise your hands from the new power already, has audited those enterprises that have been privatized since the 91st, which have been demolished to the foundation, there is not even a foundation left -- no livestock, no farms, no dairy plants, no mines, no chemical industry. Who will be responsible for what happened in our country, did you say, for 28 years? I'll say for myself, I was a big entrepreneur. When the war began, I moved to a peaceful Ukraine. I've only been a parliamentarian for three years, and I'm in the election. We broke the system of the princely system in the Luhansk region. Our team has won virtually every district. What can we tell people today when we go to rural areas? I was already talking about the fence and tent that makes a mad chicken or a mad rabbit jump. Who was the one who was doing the inspection of this fence today? This fence was seen by parliamentarians who came with me, and I'm going to repeat it from Chernigov to Snake Island, this is Dmitri Lubinets of Donetsk, this is Sergey Rudik of Cherkaszczina, this is Sumar Victoria, this is me and every parliamentarian who joined us. We've seen people suffer from a fence that went through the ground, and the land was unaccounted for, and people didn't get compensation. Have you considered these questions to people? How are you going to sell state parks, state reserves, how are you going to count the wealth of our land today: oil, water, electricity from the coal we're getting? Who today will answer to future generations for our earth, which is now in the world first — the Black Earth? Two thirds of the black lands that the Fascists exported during World War II wanted to disrupt our land in Ukraine. And our grandfathers, who shed blood, with the bones of the polluted land in Ukraine, refused to do so. With beds and cauldrons, they drained the water from the mines, building them. Today, who, raise your hand, knows that at least one mine is being constructed. Why are private mines under the earth today making profits and government mines not making profits? Because they want to destroy them again. Sailors who sit underground today, underground, say hello to Parliament. That's right, Reverend, if they come in here with the hammers, there's nothing left of the Supreme Council. But they're apolitical, and they're telling us to look into the depth of the decision to sell the land. Generations will curse those who press the green button. First the earth's audit, first the border audit, first the audit of everything in our country. Since 1956, there has been no audit of resources at all. The Marxiders say we have 100 million tons of coal underground today in the Luhansk region that can give us the growth and momentum of our economy. No one's talking about lowering tariffs today. And I'm going to say you can cut 10 times even tariffs because it was in the Soviet Union. Not because I'm against decommunization today, anything. Decommunization must be done in the heads of officials first. The one who paid attention today, my bill speaks of the ecological component of the sale of land. I'm working on the environmental committee, we've been looking at this bill. Today, I am grateful to the head of Bondarenko’s committee for making the decision and for voting in favour of the bill. Please tell me what we'll leave behind, except for the burnt desert, when the investors seem to come in and cut out all the forests when more water is polluted? And so it's a technological disaster, and so today we have an environmental disaster in a country that needs to be solved. Dear "ministers of the people," seek investment, give state guarantees, build a state, get what's in our land, and let us develop an economy, deal with environmental issues in the state normally. And by no means do you have to kill your mother's mother, because the land is the mother of every Ukrainian. Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u110	Thank you. I'm asking you to sign up for a question if there are. Please, National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u111	Thank you. Please pass the word to your colleague Ivchenk Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u112	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u113	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I wanted to contact those who hand out these cards. For five years, Ukraine has restrained military aggression. Western partners help and support us, but they will only start protecting us when their capital and assets are here. This, colleagues, should be the address of the Head of the Supreme Council and the service examination of the handing out of these cards. But at the same time, I'll tell you, colleagues. And the person who calls himself an agrarian lobbyist and asks the fatherland leader a question here, please see how much his holding is getting, his, who he belongs to, paying back the VAT. Last year, almost 9 billion dollars. So I'll tell you where they got the money to get to the Supreme Council. It's our money with you. That's why they're lobbying this market today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u114	Vadim Yvchenko, I don't know who's handing out these cards, but these cards are handed out by those who don't want to work for the Ukrainian people, and who want to become slaves to investors from abroad, like transatlantic companies running around the hall today and sort of solving this question. I started my story with 300 Spartans. So, 300 Spartans put their lives on their land, shed their blood, and let no enemy force pass on their own land. So let us not look at printed postcards today and support the Ukrainians themselves. You've been given 60 percent of the population -- 131 counties to each of the Majors of the People's Service. You have the right to decide for yourself, not those who dictate conditions today, whether to vote or not in favour of this bill. Don't sell, don't betray Ukrainian land. Just think about how we can make money for Ukraine because the Ukrainians trusted us today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u115	National deputy of the road Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u116	Good day to you all. Mikola Road, 162th District. Please tell me, do you agree with the fact that the Earth Rent Institute today is even more impoverished by our rural population and real landowners than the ability to use it more qualitatively not only for agricultural production, but especially as a bank for the development of its own small business? What other paths do you see besides simply blocking the earth’s market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u117	Dear Mr. Mikolo, you have asked a very important question. Yes, there is indeed a shadowy, "syrian", plundering market of land in Ukraine. You have the right today as a majority to make a protector against these village robberies. First of all, I've said this before, a demarcation line at the border with the Russian Federation. No amount of compensation was received from the State. There are also farmers who do not pay the farmers properly. We have to control it, too. But when. And once again, Mr. Mikolo, as soon as they arrive, as soon as the finger of their foreign flocks is inserted into the land market of Ukraine, they will burn our land with biofuels. We need to take full control of these points. The recycling of the earth will not take place. He's going to be completely exhausted, he's going to rob. So once again, Mr. Mikolo, the correct question. But you have a right today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u118	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Labazuk Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u119	Dear Ukrainian people! 188th Precinct, Hmelničina, Labazuk. Today, many of the speakers said it was a historic day. But please see where the President is on this historic day where the Prime Minister is? And where did those national MPs who were not so long ago at their polling stations in their election programs say that the eighth vocation or the seventh vocation, the former, did not attend their jobs, did they not work? Look in the hall: On a historic day, there are no national deputies in their workplaces. Today, like me, it's more like a Sabbath. For the Sabbath, which has been for several weeks, and perhaps months in a row, the authorities look like those who have fallen, you know, into that earthquake, into the swamp, and instead of quietly asking for help, they are lurking and sinking. They're sinking, not understanding what's going on. In fact, the question needed a thorough study, perhaps it was necessary to try, to grasp, to consult, to communicate, to analyze, and, of course, to ask people’s opinion. It was promised that governmental issues would be dealt with in a referendum and only after that would decisions be made. We're like the ones who are pulling that car back and forth today, but we can't possibly come up with the only solution -- the right one. And in fact, too long the subject of the land market will have to be made and no decisions will be made. The story on this issue is quite far away. But there are some last moments about which today some new calling of the Supreme Council, most of them, did not want to take the work that was done in the past when the moratorium did not continue for tens of years for the sake of a moratorium. And there was a clear position: we decided to continue the moratorium for 1 year, until a road map is drawn up, which unfortunately, when we started to work out, can't be made up of one single item or one single bill. A working group was set up to be invited by professional associations, specialists, people working on the ground, to invite associations that understand that a peasant is needed today in order to preserve the village as a whole. Of course, there were representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, there were representatives of the Supreme Council and our foreign partners, whom we always want to involve so much. But once my colleague read one of the points that foreign partners want from us, from our land, it's not independence, it's direct dependence on external partners, and it's only in their interests. Why is this attitude toward his people today and his country then in our sessional room? Without asking people's opinion, writing a bill in the form most likely needed by the Pacific partners in order to sell our land at no cost as soon as possible during the war and then saying: "The Ukrainian village is no longer needed on a map, Ukrainians go to Poland to earn money because they need you as a black labor force. For future generations, our children will not be. After all, today the question of why did the volunteers go to war first, then the fully formed Ukrainian army to the east of our country? For our own land, for the future of our generations. And today, if you say so, who is shaping our state? They are the farmers, the producers who are working on the land, who are processing the products that are being grown on the ground, who are creating jobs, and they are now making 40 percent of the money available to our budget, which is the reason that these people are now closing virtually all social issues in the countryside. Unfortunately, it's not from the state budget. Go to the village that was not there, and look, and ask the local farmer, the local agribusiness, together with entrepreneurs, solve the issues and help the school, kindergarten, and other institutions. Every year we promise to support the village. And today our minister from this rostrum, I'm sorry, but he has gone rogue, said, "We're spending 4 billion on support. I want to remind the members of the Agrarian Committee to the National Deputies, let's remember that two weeks ago there was a committee meeting where representatives of the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the Ministry of Economics said: 4.4 billion per land-purchasing support programme, plus another 4 billion for the programs that we recommended with you: animal support, support for gardening. And that was within the limits of the rule provided for by law, 1 percent of the GDP of our country's budget. So this was going to be 8.4 billion. And that's what happened in the first reading. But some 4.4 billion had been erased before the second reading. Agrarians are taken away every year, but agrarians are not given away. Every year, in agrarians, there's only a new opportunity instead of helping to invest and create new jobs, reprocessing, manufacturing, and for some reason we say, "Yeah, well, let's take it away." That's not right. Today there was a comparison in this room — January 16. Who doesn't know from the national deputies and doesn't remember how this happened and what the consequences were, I really do urge very careful consideration. After all, today, without asking people’s opinion and conducting the question in a sublime way. And that's what started it. The profile committee that I'm entering, where I've had a lively discussion, and that's normal, on this issue, why they came together then, without calling and allowing the authors of the bill to report, and not allowing all the associations and representatives who wanted to come here to discuss this issue to come up with one of the bills, which is an alternative to the Cabinet bill, but it's actually the same as the Cabinet bill. So, colleagues, such questions need to be handled wisely, not slyly, well-balanced, not in the turbines, as we are accustomed to working in this calling. Now, I think we've assessed our turbines and how much we've broken wood, and then we're going to have to roll it back. I'm today, if, of course, this debate and the bill report is not going to talk about and adopt one of the bills that someone needs from the outside, because it's not for the state and the Ukrainians, I propose that we reject all the bills that are available today. And in common, it is wise to go to work on a single bill that will be supported by a society that will be in the interests of the State and our future generations. And of course, the earth market needs to be taken sooner or later, because this is our position today with you. But it's not in the interest of those Pacific partners. I urge you, colleagues, to be wise, and let us not work in such a way that we are in one way or another in political power and that we have a position, but in the interests of our future generations. The earth is given to us by God once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u120	Thank you. No questions? Please sign up for enquiries. Lucnyak Mikhailo Volodymyrovich. Mikola Volodymyrovich. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u121	Thank you. I'm essentially a law, a complex law. I never heard back from the Ministry. How much of a farmer’s credit is 5, 6, 10, 15, 20? The other one. And what procedure is this going to be? We didn't get an answer from the Ministry. The second question. Why is the Ministry evaluating Ukrainian land today? Who gave them the right to estimate it at 1.5-2.5 thousand dollars? Today Poland, the value of the land is 100,000 zlotys. They value their land in Ukrainian currency. Perhaps this underestimation of the ministry today will move you to buy at a low price and give these investors the right to buy them land at a low price. Who gave them the right to appreciate the earth? Because there is an estimate of the land that is valued by bonite, by fertility, by location. Who gave them the opportunity? Perhaps they use old - fashioned effects.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u122	Dear colleague, on the first question, I think the answer here is obvious. Today, by opening up the market, which is not the first question, but probably the next, after providing opportunities for opening up the land market, we really need to provide access to our farmers' cheap loans first. And these cheap loans, they have to be worth money to European farmers or other farmers, because if we go out to world markets today and we have to compete in the world market, we have to have the same conditions. As far as assessing land and dollars? I think it's a written program, like most of the written bills that are written in this sessional room and not in this Supreme Council, but somewhere outside of here. We know and know that not in one interview our colleagues claimed that the bill had not been seen or read, introduced, and voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u123	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u124	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, Fatherland continues to formulate what unites the Hall. As an impenetrable argument, there is one thing in the room: Do not take the right of peasants who want to sell the land to implement it. Okay, let's support this right, the first buyer of the state, the first buyer of the local government, the community. Where do you get the money? We immediately create a village bank, it's in every civilized country that cares about agriculture. There's only government funds, less than 2-3 percent of the year's worth, like all over the world. Hence, funds, including purchases at a fair price, are made available to those who want to sell. This is a market for national interests, for every citizen of Ukraine. What's the problem? There is no such thing as a key vote in the bill. We don't vote in any way, we're still working on these things, my friends!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u125	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. Sergey Petrovich, there's probably no answer here. Thank you. National Deputy Shevchenko Evgeny Volodymyrovich It wasn't a question, it was a performance. Colleagues, we're running out of time. If. 3 seconds, 10 seconds, please, Labazuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u126	Thank you. Ivan Grigorovich, you've come up with a very important subject. Decentralization is one of the few reforms that have resulted. And we really have to let the local authorities buy land and lease it, make money on it. And let the community.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u127	Thank you. Shevchenko Evgeny Volodymyrovich. Eugene Volodymyrovich, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u128	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Ukraine! Eugene Shevchenko, 76th constituency, Zaporozhye I am the author of the alternative bill 2178-7. But I understand there's no point in talking about this bill right now. So I'm going to express my personal position on land reform. From the beginning, I personally opposed the right of foreigners or their companies to purchase Ukrainian land for agricultural production. Finally, the President and our faction realized that the position that I was defending and sounding all this time coincided with that of most Ukrainian citizens. But to this day, everyone has agreed that foreigners cannot own agricultural lands in Ukraine. Because the Ukrainian Constitution protects ownership of the land of Ukrainian citizens, and amendments to article 13 of the Ukrainian Constitution are possible only through the holding of an all-Ukrainian referendum. It's all about now. Moratorium is evil. The evil that a peasant does with beggars. The continuation of the moratorium on land sales is a continuation of poverty in the Ukrainian village. But large agroholdings, known as agrarian locomotives, are transformed into deserts after passing through rural villages — no roads, no schools, no children, no future. That's why I see the future of the Ukrainian village: this is the average agriculture depending on the region, the location, and the climate zone, from 3,000 to 5,000 hectares in Polissa, or 5,000 acres of land in the steppe area. In the production structure, which will necessarily be animal production, the earth must receive organic fertilizer. Gardening, vegetables and berries are now the most profitable agricultural industry, but they need substantial investment. And it is the removal of the moratorium on land sales that gives impetus to the rapid development of this sector. According to practice, farms with a broader production and seismic structure are more socially responsible for their philosophy of activity, encouraging the development of life in rural areas, because the village is a cradle of Ukrainian identity and the primary centre of society and state. Earth reform is not just an economy and money, it is a reform that affects the social and humanitarian component of the Ukrainian state, which depends on the future life of Ukrainians for centuries to come. That's why I'm going to personally vote on Bill 2178-10 in the first reading. But if the second reading doesn't take into account the amendments that exclude the right of aliens to own the agricultural lands that the President has told us about, and the rights to own up to 20,000 hectares will not be taken into account, I will personally vote with a red button. I'll tell you what, we have this faction of Soros that supported this land reform. And when we find out that we're against an element of aliens, they refuse to vote. So, Ukrainians, figure out who this faction is making for -- for Ukrainians or for foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u129	Thank you. Questions Will Be Answered? You don't? Sign up for a question to Shevchenk. National deputy Shevchenko, please return to the rostrum. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u130	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleague, can you please tell me if we can support Labazuk's words, our colleague, and we can put all the bills aside for further work, maybe we won't hit the same rakes today when from 91st to 93th they sold all the state-owned companies for vouchers and certificates? The paper said: 52 million carbs, when the dollar was $2.50, are $20 million. But people were cheated, cheated, and sold vouchers for one dollar for a loaf of bread when people were thrown away. And today it's going to be with the peasants when they were given a certificate today that said 135 thousand dollars since 92, and when the devaluation of the bracelets took place 300 percent to 25. Maybe we can count their land five times to a million dollars and people won't want to sell their land at all, and they'll give normal farmers 2 tons of grain, not 400 tons of grain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u131	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u132	Dear Sergey, all suggestions that make sense that have common sense can be taken into account on the committee between first and second reading, and so do I. I'm also saying, if you don't take into account the rights restrictions of property up to 20,000 hectares, if we don't rule out any. If we don't take the land into account for growth, if we don't give the land legal status for growth, we're going to have another discussion. So join us, please, we'll be waiting for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u133	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Lubinets Dmitry Valeriyovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u134	Pass the word to Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u135	Krulk's word, please. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u136	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Your Honor, I have a question for you. We have heard today that the government has set up in the budget for the following year a interest rate compensation programme if people buy land. It's not enough that all programs for farmers and farmers have been cancelled -- all of them, even the interest rate compensation program -- are designed to support commercial banks that will lend these loans, not to support farmers. On the contrary, all these things are going to wash off the circulation costs of farmers, so that farmers don't invest in land, don't buy minabres, they don't buy soot materials, they're going to do one thing: take the last money from peasants, and they can't process the land at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u137	Mr. John, I didn't understand at all why you didn't ask this question to Mr. Timothy Milovanov when he was here, but I will answer. Actually, we didn't get anything from the farmers before, in a large way, but they got one company that made us so many chickens that we don't know where to go anymore. So ask the government that came to us, where the money went.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on procedural matters, please speak to the head of the "Serve of the People" faction, David Arahami. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u139	Colleagues, very, very much like what the rostrum looks like, and want to extend this question to the end of the debate. Please put to the vote an extension of the working day until we close the matter with this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u140	This rule allows, 19th, yes. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please. Procedural, if that's a procedural question. Dear colleagues, once again, please article 19 allows us to continue this question. Please, Your Honor, I'd like to ask you to take your seats. There was an offer, if we get there, we'll finish at 15, if we don't make it, we'll finish after we've considered it. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u141	You can't do that after. Wait a minute. Read the Rules only during the sitting. The sitting is not over. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I am asking the question to continue this issue until the issue is concluded. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, about the committees, if there's no delay, you'll go in time, if there is, it's 10-15 minutes. I'm putting it to a vote. Please support and vote. [[14:28:34]] For – 234 Decision taken. We continue to consider the matter. The word is given to national deputy Mageri Sergey Vasilovich. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 231, "The Opposition Platform" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 0, "For the Future" – 0, "The Voice" – 0, "the Non-Factional" – 3. Thank you. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u142	Please turn on the microphone to the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Today, passion is just a pain in the ass. However, I hope that no one in this room will argue that any reform is doomed if it is not supported by the majority. Most of the people of Ukraine, the people who are the bearers of power, and I emphasize, the owner of the land, according to the functioning Constitution. The issue of land sales was expected to divide everyone. Under such conditions, to start reform and implement the land market is a questionable exercise. So a group of Ukrainian people's deputies were preparing a draft of Law 2178-8, which I am now presenting. The main positions of the project we have put forward are, first, the enforcement of the law ban on purchase, the sale of agricultural land before a nationwide referendum is held on this issue. If the referendum shows that most of our people are not yet ready to accept the introduction of land sales, it would be logical not to rush and use time to prepare new ones. Secondly, approval at the level of the law of the exclusive list of subjects who are able to acquire ownership of agricultural land if they receive a positive solution to this issue in a referendum. They are citizens of Ukraine, legal persons, final beneficiaries and owners of which are exclusively citizens of Ukraine, the territorial communities, and the state. According to our project, foreigners and non-citizens will in any case not be able to acquire ownership of land and agricultural destinations. Again, from the very beginning of the ninth vocation, I stress that the land under the Constitution of Ukraine is the property of the Ukrainian people. And it is the owner, the Ukrainian people, who has the exclusive right to address property-related issues. First a referendum to prove the relevance of change and then to implement it. Please support this point of view and project 2178. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u144	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? None. Let's go. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who? Sergey Vasilovich, if you could come back, please have a question. Please sign up for questions. Friz Irina Vasilovna, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u145	Please pass the word to Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u146	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u147	Thank you. I have another question. Here we all see proposals from Greens and teams that predict an incredible concentration of land in one hand, over 200,000 hectares. Question: Which other country in Europe is the concentration that is assumed? Take, for example, Poland — 500 acres [500 ha]. We'll take other Eastern European countries, we'll talk about hundreds of hectares. But there is no such thing as offering 210,000 hectares in one hand. This is some new ionization that will lead to the collapse of the Ukrainian village because there are 13 million people in the Ukrainian village. What will they do if the whole earth is owned by several hundred latifundists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u148	I have nothing to add to this today. I guess the answer won't come from me. So the question is. Any more questions? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u149	Please, National Deputy Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u150	Please pass the word to Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u151	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, look here, not only do we anger society through our knees, not only do we anger parliament, but we also act in the traditions in which some of the predecessors worked. Please tell me how the "The Council" TV channel was shut down when the leader of "The Fatherland" Timoshenko spoke and directly reported on the bill and on the inability to sell land to foreigners when we showed you all the things that are written in those bills that you're going to vote on today. Head of the Supreme Council, I'd like you to give your own answer, Mr. Dmitry Alexanderovich, by how the Rada channel shut down Fatherland leader Timoshenko. It's in the best traditions of the predecessors. I didn't think you could do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u152	Thank you. You won't answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u153	I guess it's not for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u154	Please turn on the microphone here. Sergei Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u155	I guess it's not for me. I'm sorry, I won't answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u156	Let me ask you a question. When I report, I think I can answer right away. Thank you. I think it would be inappropriate for me to answer questions about a law that is not written by me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u157	Make an application, a service check, because it's an unprecedented step, how do you deprive me as a national deputy of direct broadcasting when I've reported the law, and Leader Timoshenko? How?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u158	You stood here and saw that I was here and I wasn't giving the team. Do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u159	I didn't say you gave the team. But let me do the service now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u160	I've already asked that question, they're doing it. Let's move on to the next one. Oh, the procedure. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u161	Honorable Ukrainian national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens, I asked for a word with procedural questions, but I was not given it. Why? Before the vote. Because I'm showing you all article 19 of the Rules. This article does not provide for the continuation of work on Wednesday, because we have already begun committee meetings according to the calendar plan. This consideration of the bill is totally illegal. Again, you want to enact illegal anti-national law in violation of the Rules, violating the procedure, violating the calendar plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have a committee meeting right now. You're tearing down committee meetings. You have no right to do that. So in order not to let you do "January 16th," our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" is blocking the rostrum. And we will strive to follow the Rules. And so that the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should begin at the right time, as provided by law. We're blocking the rostrum. And take a break until tomorrow to consider these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u162	With all due respect, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, I don't quite understand. On the one hand, you talk about the importance of the earth’s market, the issue of the earth, and on the other hand, dinner is more important to us than that. I don't think that's right. And let's look at it. We haven't even been out in three hours, as is stipulated by the vote before. I think that if all the national deputies are here, when the national deputies are all here, there won't be a committee, there won't even be a quorum. Let's be realistic. Thank you. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Zalockicki Marian Bogdanovich. No, not from the place. Please step outside, stand by, please. Please stand by and speak. No one's blocking. No, it's not. No, it's not finished. My colleagues, it's not over. [[B in m in s a l in]] The decision is taken by the Supreme Council. Mikhailo Miklaiovich, and you know it. Please turn on Zalockski's microphone. You're now delaying this process of dealing with the issue. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, if we are talking about the Rules, the Rules do not provide for the blockade of the rostrum, the Rules do not provide for such a discussion. So when we're forced to continue the meetings, it's not because we don't want to go to the committees, it's because some of the colleagues in the Supreme Council of Ukraine think that this is a more comfortable and common discussion format, I hope that's not the case. Give me your word, Zamlocksky. You're basically blocking and not following the agreements that have been reached? Please turn on Zalockym's microphone from the spot, so. Given that there are no 15 hours left, you are now in violation of the Rules, blocking the rostrum. That's for information, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in principle, from here, I think, to hear as well as there is. I hope you'll be comfortable there. Dear colleagues, indeed, before us now is a historic moment, and we're talking about that 6 million 700,000 Ukrainians who have a moratorium on land in private ownership should be allowed to sell it, on the other hand, there are about 40-50,000 agrarians, farmers who can get the right to buy it. Unfortunately, 6 million 700,000 landowners, they're not well organized because they're the poorest people, they don't pay membership fees, they don't have media budgets, they don't invest in election campaigns and they're not protected. And in this case, we're talking about allowing these people to get rid of this land at a normal price. At present, 6 million, 700,000 landowners have an average of 4 hectares. They're usually older people, their pension is 2,000 dollars. They can sell this land peacefully now even at current market prices for about 200,000 dollars for that land. Any limit that we set for sale, any number of hectares in the hands of a foreigner, it limits the price they can get. I understand that we see a lot of agrarian protests, but we shouldn't forget the interests of 6 million 700,000 landowners, they deserve a fair price. And as we go on with the subject, I would also like to pay attention to the hypocrisy that is happening right now. Dear voters, honourable citizens, do you think, among those who are now blocking the rostrum, how many lands are in their possession? If you look closely at the declaration, buy the land, sell the land peacefully, and this is allowed because the moratorium is not common. It turns out that we have to buy land in Concha-Sleep, it's right on the holy slopes of Dniper, and it's wrong for grandmas in the village to sell land. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you will excuse the figure that 75 percent may be opposed to canceling the land moratorium against the property of 6 million 700,000 citizens. You think it's normal to referendate and manage someone else's property, that is, by referendum, decide on private property for 6 million 700,000 people, because it's popular. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an alternative, even for you. And you know what's going to be very popular is taking all the land that's been stolen from all the former deputies of all the previous calls. What do you think if I put this question to a referendum, which will be supported -- 99 percent or 100 percent? If you're going to referend the issue of having someone else's property in the complex, you might as well get it yourself. That's why I'm here to make sure that we finally stop disrespecting 6 million 700,000 senior citizens, mostly the same people we have in private ownership of this land. Just as other millions of people own land, land under construction, and industry. Because if not, they will not respect private property and other people. Thank you. I propose to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u164	Thank you. Is there a question for Marian Bogdanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u165	Please sign up for questions. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u166	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! Once again, I refer to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Article 19 of the Rules in peremptory form points out that on Wednesday, committee work is just a morning session. You have no right to continue the plenary session on Wednesday. We have, by the way, all our work books are kept on committees, and we have in our workbook a record: not just the Ukrainian National MP, but a committee member, secretary, head. Therefore, committee work cannot be overturned by any decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or by any law. Committeework is our main job. Don't interrupt the meetings, we have committees to sit down and hold our meetings, and we have bills to consider. Neither does the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, nor does anyone have the right to interrupt committee meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u167	Of course you're right. Because the decision is not made by the Head, not the First Deputy, not the Deputy, not the Heads of factions, not even the Honorable People’s Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides. If we are talking to you about article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, it is about continuation. Where it says, show me Tuesday, Thursday. Please show me Tuesday, Thursday. Ad hoc procedure is foreseen there. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, okay. Dear colleagues, that was not the question. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u168	Thank you. The questions first, and please be careful. Dear Mr. Head! I ask you to consider my question as a question of parliament to you personally and to the entire "Serve of the People" faction. Your colleague has just stated that there is, as it were, a land that they fear to give away and so forth. My family has 10 hundred lands. I ask that the entire "Serial of the People" faction publish because they have published your declarations as much as you each have land. Now for the questions. For what sake did the author of this bill impose a minimum limit: 200,000 hectares of land could be purchased by one owner? Who in Ukraine can buy these 200,000 acres [200,000 ha] of land? The second question. Why is there no land cadastre in your law? Third. Why is there no minimum value for the earth? Well, when you publish what you have, "servants," there's land that you're trying to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u169	Thank you. Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u170	Thank you for asking. First of all, the Servant of the People voluntarily declared all property, although this requirement has only been for us since 2020. The other one. I speak in principle for a fully free market, but the limits are set in a consensus that I hope will satisfy the Ukrainian people. And by offering further consensus and going back to the last topic, I'm told here. I'm being told again that I'm a servant of the oligarchs. I'm ready to re-sign, I'm turning to the "Fatherland" faction, under their 2008 bill, which clearly couldn't be oligarchic. I'm willing to vote for him, and I'm proposing to the Fatherland reverend faction together to sign under him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u171	Get Krulke out of the procedure, please turn on the microphone. Cool. All right, turn it on if you promised, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u172	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. First of all, I want you to consider my parliamentary request to you as the speaker of Parliament, why the statement by the leader of the "Fatherland" faction of Yulia Timoshenko was interrupted by the "Council" channel, please consider it a request. And the second. Article 19 of the Supreme Council Rules strongly stipulates that on Wednesday there can be no evening plenary meetings, only in the morning until 2 p.m. This time. And the second question. If the Supreme Council, this is article 19 of Part Four, wants to continue the meetings of the Supreme Council, it can be one time and only after 18 hours of decision-making at the morning meeting. So when you twice put to the vote the question of the continuation of the meeting of the Supreme Council, you violated article 19 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, and compliance with the Rules is the responsibility of the presiding officer of the Parliament. So I ask you to act in accordance with the Rules, to stop this meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u173	Thank you. If you and I are going to look at the amount of time that our colleagues took away from us, for the rest of the time, for the rest of the talk, for the sequel, we're going to invest in time. If we're talking about committees. The committees have to work, start work at 16 o'clock. That's why. That's what it says in the Rules, since the 16th. And when you assigned it. No, it's from the 2nd through the 16th you have a break, yeah, lunch. Come on, colleagues. I give the floor to the Head of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee of Solski Mikola Tarasovich. You have the right to appeal to the Regulatory Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u174	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, good afternoon. I think there's no secret to anyone in this room or in the country that we actually have the land market. We have more than 27 million hectares in the country, which are submoral, and about a million two hundred thousand hectares over the last 10 to 15 years in different ways, mainly by long lease and emphitevsis contracts have already been sold. When a grandmother signs a 49-year-old rent contract or a pievik granddaddy, and at the same time she rents a regular-money lease, we all understand that it's a hidden contract for sale. What's more, most of these contracts are made up of covenants, agreements and other instruments. In addition, we have about 4 million acres [4 million ha] of agricultural land in the country, which is owned by citizens who have been transferred to the OSH, where there is no moratorium, and about a million hectares have already been reselled. The main task of the bill, which was presented by the committee, was to make the market white. There is no question of stimulating this market in any way. At the same time, I would like to point out that this is only part of land reform. I am absolutely in agreement with Mr. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovitch that land authority should be transferred from cadastre to local communities. This bill is also in the daytime order, another bill that is designed to give these powers fully. This transmission begins thanks to the previous government, and, God forbid, it will be over. In addition, there are many standards that develop the dominant right of active tenants. The earth’s structure is also greatly simplified. To my personal deep conviction, the marriage of each farmer should not be determined by the Supreme Council, they did better than we did and they will cope.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u175	Thank you. Or they will. Everything? Is there a question for the reporter?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u176	Please sign up for the question. Sergey Vladislavovich, from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u177	Mr. Solski, please tell me, for which of the 6 million 700,000 owners specifically did you set a standard of 210,000 hectares that can be bought in one hand? For whom have you established a standard that a foreign citizen may buy it? For whom did you lay down in your bill that it could be purchased by a company registered in offshore jurisdiction without paying taxes in Ukraine? Specific names are one, two, three. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u178	Give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u179	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Look, there's no secret that the bill has discussion standards. The basic norm, which is debated, and which position it has already taken by the President, is that any foreigner in any form -- directly or as co-founders of any enterprise -- will not be able to participate in the earth's ransom. Only if this decision is approved solely by referendum, I would like to emphasize it once again. And it's these changes that are going to be introduced. They are publicly announced, supported by a large part of the committee and have, I see, very strong support in the hall. When we're talking about country, area and OTG restrictions, I'm going to ask you to look at a few points. First, once again, these questions between first and second reading will be discussed again and again. What's more, I think you're personal and not just you, but the hall and the whole country have heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u180	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u181	individual representatives of the "Serial of the People" faction, of our faction, who hold a different thought and insist on making these rights between the first and the second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u182	Friz Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u183	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u184	Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u185	Thank you. Mr. Solski, I have another question for you. You've said quite rightly that this bill is completely imperfect and that you need to make changes, a lot of changes. And there's got to be a whole package of supporting documents. Tell me, please, you're talking about these changes now that the village has to determine, the farmer himself will do it better. Do you realize that this law is actually written for the benefit of large corporations that actually kill agriculture? And who will then determine the same changes and maintain the quality of the soil and so on? Which actually prevented us from submitting to Parliament not four pages of the framework law in the interests of corporations, but a law that would really introduce the market in the interests of us being able to build, in the interests of the state, so that we could develop our agro-industrial complex so that farmers and farmers would eventually be competitive with large corporations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u186	Mikolo Tarasovich, you'll answer, but it's tight if you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u187	Mrs. Victoria, that's absolutely not true. This is one of the bills, there are other bills that are developing land reform, including in the agenda today, where there are answers to your questions that are being answered today, including bill 2194. All the support is focused on the small and the medium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, the time for submission of drafts and statements by the authors is over. I'd like you to sign up for the factions. The speeches will take place. Krulko Ivanovich. Turn it on from there. There's no Krulke? Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u189	Please give the word to Batenku Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u190	Batenko Taras Ivanovich. From the place, please, Taras Ivanovich. Don't let go, let's get out of here. Taras Ivanovich, please, let's get out of here. Because now the word will be lost, too, it won't be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u191	Please give me time to play while I go to the stand, which is blocked. Dear friends! Dear colleagues, we are having a very emotional time in Parliament today. I want to remind you, this was a story we were reminded of, and I also want to remind you that 20 years ago there was a debate between liberals and communists about what liberals said that we had a difference with communists on just one issue: it's a land issue. They thought we should lie in the ground, and we think we should. You know, the communists are long gone in this room, and we still can't find understanding and consolidation of society on the ground. You know, I want to remind you of another historical fact, because the issue of land today is a matter of national interest and strategic interest of the nation, of national security. When in the middle of the 19th century, when Russia lost the Crimean War, it gave back, sold Alaska for a miserable $5 million, it did not fix their economic situation. And what we're seeing at the projected rate for the 2020 budget, the $5 billion in land sales, I also think it's not a situation that's going to capitalize on our economies of land sales. And Russia has lost land, and we can lose national sovereignty. My friends, I would also like to point out that today, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister Milovanov spoke today, saying that the source of authority is the people, we should ask the people. Let's ask this people, let's hold a referendum and see if the people want to sell the land. That's what I'm saying to Mr. Milovanov, who he never said was interested in Ukraine, except in salsa and sailing sports, which today is the minister of the economy. And if the head of the profiling committee tells us that there are ambiguities and divisive norms in such a bill, then that's the kind of bill we should send for further work. That's why our "For the Future" MP group will not vote in favour of this issue today. We insist on continuing the moratorium or considering it accordingly after the parliamentary hearings that will take place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after December 4, and there will be a referendum to be held in which the entire Ukrainian nation will take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u192	Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u193	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u194	Thank you. Can I talk to you? Thank you. Dear colleagues, how does this law differ from European rules and the European market? First of all, there is an individual permit in Europe for the government to sell land. Reasons for obtaining a permit are different everywhere. In Austria, for example, the buyer has to guarantee the actual processing of the purchased land, and in Norway he has to move to the purchased land and live there for at least five years. The buyer must have an education or previous experience in the agricultural sector. In Austria, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, and Poland, there are different procedures for purchasing land for citizens and companies. Estonia, Poland, Sweden grant the land the right to purchase to natural persons, and the legal professions only through permits. Usually the right to purchase land for those already working on it is in most countries of the European Union. In nine countries of Europe, land cannot be sold at all. Among them were Georgia and Moldova and Croatia and many other countries. In most Eastern European countries, there are different rules for members of the European Union and other countries. All over the world, it is permissible to own EU residents and to impose severe restrictions on residents of other countries. In Hungary, for example, there is a total ban. This bill does not provide for individual control over the sale of land. For example, the system of individual permits, and the earth is strategic property. Land buyers are not required to be inspected for the purpose of buying land. Normal banality, education is not checked. There is no control over the costs at which the land will be purchased. Our land can be purchased at Russian expense, and in fact the Russians can hoard all the lands along the Ukrainian-Russian border. They don't even have to wage war. We sell land to an aggressor. The bill does not contain any systems of State control over the circulation of land. There is no legal effect on the violation of the relevant restrictions. So this bill actually destroys Ukrainian sovereignty. Dear friends, Russia is most interested in destabilizing the country. Now that we don't put a minimum price on land for Ukrainian farmers, when we don't put a limit on the amount of land we can buy, when we don't control what the cost of land is bought, it will lead to Ukrainians who have always gone out on the street for their independence going out on the ground. This will lead to a complete destabilization of the situation in the country, at the hands of a Russian aggressor. Listen to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Listen to the recommendations of the European Union that support the market for the earth, but they are absolutely clear, in the form that this is being proposed to us right now, you can't definitely do that. We're Ukrainian peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u195	Thank you, Mikola Leonidovich. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u196	Dear friends, I'd like to draw your attention right now to the fact that we're voting now? We will vote, first, the sale of land, practically without restrictions, 210,000 hectares of land in one hand, we will vote in this room by the law, which provides for the sale of land to foreigners, in this room will now vote by the law, which provides for the removal of peasants, farmers, agrarians even those pieces of land that have been issued to them entirely in use and possession, even taking them away and auctioning them. This law will vote to take away Ukrainians from Ukrainian land, you just report to yourself that there is no such thing as a market, a market, and it's just a banditry, there is no country in Europe or any country in the world. You realize that you're going to vote essentially for big monopolies, for the oligarchy, for the corporation, you're going to vote to merge 72 percent of the territory of Ukraine, you're going to sell 72 percent of the land during the war, including if you can't control or buy this aggressor country. I can just now tell you that every voice, every green button that's going to be pressed, it crosses the possibility of Ukraine as such, the sovereignty of Ukraine, every green button will deprive Ukraine of the development of its agriculture, its agricultural production. You're really saying today that people who have pies can't sell them. Thus, pies are purchased from people around the world through government agencies, through state banks, through the state, and through local authorities. We can arrange it. And do not put people who want to sell their pie in the order where people want to sell their land. I now ask everyone who has conscience, morality, honour and love for Ukraine, responsibility for every vote, not to push the green button for the surrender of Ukrainian land. And I'm surprised that our agrarian societies, which are now present here, have not given a word. They asked, they asked me to say a word in this room, and they were deprived of words. Do not let our land and Ukraine be betrayed today!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u197	Litvinenko Sergey Anatoliyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u198	Deputies! Today we all have, here in the hall, a chance to make our Ukrainian land our citizens' property. Just think, 37 million hectares of land are under a moratorium, that is, in the shade, and our entire country, as you know, is over 60 million hectares. Should humans continue to be victims of corrupt schemes? Because of their strange leases, they lost their land because they had lost their property for decades that even their grandchildren could not use these lands. Over the past few months, I've been talking to a lot of people: from agroholding owners, to the humblest farmers, from pragmatic financiers, to the most fierce opponents of the land market -- everyone has an argument both for, and against, but everyone wants honest rules of the game, everyone has an argument both for, and against. People’s chosen ones, today we have the opportunity to give people who live modestly even in a few acres of land to rule the entire earth. This is an opportunity for the Ukrainian people to come to terms. But in order to do so, we must do our job by conscience, vote in behalf of the people, not of some interested politicians who have been profiting from the ignorance of ordinary Ukrainians for decades. I now address all Ukrainians who own a hundred acres or acre. After this law has been passed, you remain the owners of your land. And you're the only one who can sell it any time you want. Don't believe what the moratorium offers you, it's a way to go. You know how these schemes work in a moratorium. With the new law, you are free to dispose of your belongings. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote of each of you today depends on whether you are able to fulfill your promises and take decisive action toward specific changes to Ukraine. During the election, you all and we promised that everything would change, it would all be for people, so let's take this step together, together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u199	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now with motives – Papiev and motives – Shahov. And let's go to the vote. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u200	First of all, you don't have the right to restrict factions right now, it's a complete process of consideration. All factions are to appear, and our faction has three minutes under the Rules. Mr. Head, can you hear me or not? Dmitri Alexanderovich! I'll give you another hint.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u201	It's just that your colleagues are distracting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u202	Now, the full review procedure, according to the Rules, each faction has three minutes. I'm asking that the opposition platform be for life.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u203	It's if you signed up when you were there and you were here. Excuse me, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u204	She had her word. And we claim that there are also national deputies to speak, so follow the Rules. You are currently holding meetings illegally because at 15 hours, committee meetings began according to the Committee's work schedule. You're going to get an illegal vote. And once again we emphasize to you when you made an oath to the Ukrainian national deputy, it began with the words of article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u205	Thank you, Michael Mikolaiovich. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, a minute of motive. And, yes, indeed, six minutes of speeches by national deputies will be. You didn't sign up for factions, sorry. No, you didn't sign up, a minute of motive, if you didn't sign up for factions. You know the rules better than me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u206	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, today we have considered ten bills that do not unite society, but disunite, for each of us people voted for us not just here today, but for Ukraine. Therefore, our team today proposes to unify all the bills and send them to the committee so that they do not dilute society. During the 2013 military campaign, in 2014, our team held more than 22 round tables from Zakarpatje, Lviv, Odiščina, Kharkivščina, Donetskina. And that's why we were uniting society. I'd like you to come forward today and send out all the drafts for further processing. Thank you. Because 25 million hectares are now uninhabited by 35 million Ukrainians. Raise your hand, which has 2 hectares of land, your honor, which of the people has 2 acres.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u207	Thank you. Sign up for the national MPs, six minutes' notice. Let's move on to the vote after that. Leros Geo Bagratovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u208	Please pass the word to Ivanchuku Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u209	Who? Tell who again. Turn on Ivanchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u210	Dear people's deputies, good day to you all! We are already watching the discussion in the south, and we have all come to realize that there are different points of view in the hall. But I'd like everyone to calm down and stop shouting, "Damn, treachery." It's the first reading. There are 10 laws, choose the law and the second reading, when the law becomes the property of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, you will be able to have a professional discussion. Now it's all simple from the wicked. I ask you to proceed to the vote, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u211	Thank you. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u212	Please pass the word to a colleague of Goncharenko, north of Restoration.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u213	A potter? Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u214	Alexei Hotcharenko, north of Clothing, European Solidarity. Dear friends, you know, there's actually a sale on Ukrainian land right now in front of our eyes. It's not the market of the land you want to enter. The law that you wrote against the Ukrainian landowner being able to handle it is not addressed by anyone. Of course, a person has to manage his possessions. Someone wants to leave the village, someone wants to be treated, someone wants to be educated. But what you're proposing is a completely different thing. It's not a land market -- it's a land market where Ukrainians are meant to sell the last of their land, and sell it for nothing. Because otherwise you would introduce a minimum price that is not in principle here; you would introduce a system by which a Ukrainian peasant could not only sell land but also buy land, create his own farm, work on his own land to feed himself, family, and Ukraine. Look, nobody cares. I talk to the viewers, I know a lot of TV channels broadcast it. Look at the session room: no one listens, no one needs it. This is a fundamental question for the country's life for years, for decades ahead, and how do we accept it, in what shame? Without which, without discussion, without discussion, without any normal conversation. Is that how strategic decisions are made for the state?Oh, my God! No one raises the question of how you can sell 200,000 acres in one hand or one to foreign oligarchs, or local oligarchs. It's all private: Private Bank, Private Sky, private Earth. Where are we going? Why do we need this? The aim of land reform should be to create a strong middle class in the countryside, farmers who will be millions to feed Ukraine, who will protect it if needed. This is the goal of any normal state. But as I can see, Zelenski and his "servants" don't need this, they're squeezing through the Supreme Council, they're breaking Parliament's knee to print out some of the responsibilities they gave when they went to power to sell Ukrainian land as quickly as possible and as soon as possible. Dear voters, please, this is between the first and the second readings I ask you to find each of your majors among those who vote for this disgrace today to find and explain to him that Ukraine cannot be sold like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u215	Thank you. Hermit Irina Volodymyrna and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, recently our colleague from the previous Parliament, Oleg Lazko, had a bit of a row over the shoulders of one of the colleagues from the "Serve of the People" and he immediately wrote a clause in the GPA. I just want to say that Zablocksky's "minister" has published shocking information that he is aware of the information that the deputies of previous calls seem to have ripped apart Ukrainian land. It's a secretion of socially important information, and we're asking Zamlocksky's deputy to come to the D.B.R., the N.A.U., the B.A., and give all this information. Otherwise, we will have to go to these structures to understand what such information is hidden by Zamlocksky. In the meantime, the evil tongues say that the authors of these bills represent large agricultural holdings, which is why the bill states that the land retention limit may be 200,000 hectares. It's a completely non-European norm. The bill does not provide for the protection of farmers; it does not provide for the possibility of Ukrainians not selling pies but to buy land. Because there is no cadastre of transparent land, no bank of land, no minimum cost of land, no land protection is provided to allow it to be processed properly. And it's actually the bill that breaks not only the session hall today, but also society. We haven't heard the answers from the "servants" to these questions that our voters are addressing today. Why is there no cadastre, no price, no minimum value of land in this law? Why are there 200,000 hectares in one hand? This is disrespect for our faction and for our electorate. And we who have always voted against the moratorium, because we are in favour of the land market, today we are strongly protesting that the land will simply be passed on to the oligarchs, not to peasants and not to farmers. You're tearing Parliament apart when you're not allowed to do a market bill today. You've lost two months to shameful drafts on buttons, on how to humiliate MPs and ruin bills. Now your deputies are back in pornohaba, and that's what journalists are now showing, instead of working on professional bills. Stop it! Stop destroying the state and parliamentaryism!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u217	Thank you. Colleagues, decisions are taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. Turn on the vote. I'd like you to support that. Oh, stop! Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the circulation of agricultural land (registration number 2178-10), which was recommended by the Committee. Please support and vote. [[The voices from the hall. Shame! Shame!]] [[15:22:12]] For 240
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-13-m0.u218	240-yes. Decision taken. The law was adopted in the first reading as a basis. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the people" - 227, non-factional - 13. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, back to the issue of the Rules. We continued to work until 3 p.m. As Head of the Supreme Council, I had the right to continue for another 15 minutes. Given the number of speeches made in the procedure, not in the procedure and in the politics, we are about to finish at 15:22. So I don't think it's entirely right to talk about any violation of the Rules. Thank you. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
