ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u1	Dear National Deputies! Dear journalists, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Request to prepare for registration. In a minute, we're going to register. Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:08:25]] There are 373 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today I would like to welcome Mikhail Jakovitch Wolinz, the National Deputy of Ukraine, to his birthday. [[Applause]] I wish you health. Is there a noun in the hall? Yes. I welcome you once again, and wish you health, success, strength, and realization of the plans that you have, which are in your political power. Hello! Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have 30 minutes Wednesday for the presentation of proposals, statements, and messages by national deputies. Requesting to sign up for the National Deputies. Duck Alexander, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, "The Opposition Platform -- For life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies of Ukraine, I would like to welcome you all today, for the first time today, we are looking at the most important and relevant draft laws that are and most urgent in society. This is about the draft Law 1122 on the gas market. He's in order today, and this bill was prepared by my colleagues from the Opposition Platform for Life by Boyk Yuri Anatoliyovich. I would like to point out that we all know that tariff issues are the most relevant, or one of the most relevant issues in society today, and that's why we've proposed three draft laws. This is a bill that will determine today's average price, taking into account the import parity of gas and the price of gas itself. The second draft of the law, according to my authority, will amend the Ukrainian Tax Code to limit or cancel the value added tax and to pay for the use of the drama. Well, the third is certainly a question of debt cancellation for the most vulnerable groups of the population, so that people can get a grant. And we know that the requirements that today are for receiving a grant are not allowing them to receive these subsidies. So "The Opposition Platform for Life" urges you to support our initiative to lower the price of gas for the population. And most importantly, I want to point out that we've counted and the citizens of Ukraine will get specific numbers. We can talk about that at the first stage the price of gas could be reduced from 6,000 120, which is today, to 4,000 500 dollars, and at the second stage to 3,000 dollars. This means that we can lower the heating tariff by 2.8 times, as well as the hot water tariff. We have real economic preconditions for lowering prices and tariffs for residential services. This is a reduction in the average customs value of the import gas, which has been reduced equally twice. But we can see that we don't have an equivalent price for gas or tariff heating and hot water supply. So our faction is actually not a political one, but a purely economic draft of the law, its main meaning is a formula that allows Ukrainians to get economically sound and fair tariffs. And to the end. Of course, the tariff issue is one of the most urgent issues today, but there is also a question for industrial consumers. And in fact, this bill proposes to lower the price of gas for industry to be economically sound. This means that the goods of the first need will also be cheaper. It's a matter of bread, it's a question of other important social goods and services. So we urge you to support Bill 1122. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u3	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. The great Sergey Anatolyovich. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u4	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, Dmitri Alexanderovich, distinguished Ukrainians! Today I looked at the agenda. There are many things that benefit the Ukrainians today. One ratification, two, three, four. We just got back from Lugansk. The question of the transition of the Sustainable Luhansk region again. Decision 815 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, has anyone been immersed in it or not? Have you seen how people are suffering at the crossing today? Today, we need to redesign our children’s passports in order to move to Ukraine. Please tell Luhanščina, Donetskina, Crimea is Ukraine? Why is the issue of passports settled today? In order to register in villages where there is no Internet, and in fact, it takes two minutes to register this appeal, in fact, it's the abuse of Ukrainians, the abuse of parents, the abuse of older people who are suffering from this transition. Next. Nor are questions such as the crossing of the border and the transport of Ukrainian honey for herdsmen, Ukrainian berries, for people growing in the area. Where are they going with this, please? The only market was Lugansk. Next. How many times have we been able to address the President of Ukraine, all the powerful bodies? And the governor, who was released from Luhansk the other day, came a new one. The opening of the crossings of Djomino-Alexandrovka, Blagovishchenka, Curtkovo-Milov. And given such permission by opening these passages, but "Vehicles and now there." People suffer, sit in villages without water, without drugs, without fire, without speed, and have to travel 50 miles [50 km] in the Blacklands, and have cars stuck. And that's all about one area where you can solve the issue in two weeks. It's different. Dear colleagues, literally tomorrow, as the Head of the Supreme Council of Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov has announced to us, which will address the issue of miners. There's already been an increase in debt by 200 million dollars, and in a month there's going to be another 200 million dollars. How will the government deal with this issue? There was 1 billion, now 1 billion 200, the next day there will be 1 billion 400. We need to draw immediate conclusions and budget changes for 2019 of one and a half billion dollars, or up to two billion dollars, as well as for 2020. So pay attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u5	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u6	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know this is the second time under the walls of the Supreme Council there are agrarians. There are people who have been forming most of Ukraine's gross domestic product since the 1990s. They will not only stand under the Supreme Council today, they will go and communicate with the President. Please tell me how you can do this without agrarian associations, without the agrarian thinking, how can secret committees be gathered, and how can such decisions be made? Say, please, how can we, like people who actually reflect the opinion of the people, and according to sociological surveys, people say they're against opening up the market for the earth. Not enough, they're willing to come to the referendum and say no. How do MPs, which is a reflection of the interests of the people or the servants of the people, vote in favour? You know, "Fatherland" has always stood on national interests, and the national interest is Ukrainian farmer, it's Ukrainian agriculture, it's Ukrainian merchandise. And that agrarian arrangement that we can form with you today, we are preparing today and ready to represent from a high rostrum. But at the same time, no one thinks about how agrarian business is going to work today. They just want to sell Ukrainian territory. They want to sell what belongs to Ukraine. And what I want to remind you is that agricultural land now accounts for 72 percent of the territory. Colleagues, this is our territory with you. And we want to feed foreigners in our territory? You vote in favour of laws allowing foreigners to have a dominant right in front of Ukrainians. Colleagues, they're processing today, foreigners, along with our agroholdings, which mostly have portfolio investments from other countries, they're processing 8 million hectares -- that's 25 percent of Ukrainian territory. How can we give these people the overwhelming right to buy Ukrainian land? How can we give them the opportunity to make money on Ukrainian soil, and our Ukrainian, our Ukrainian village, what will we do about it? Colleagues, listen to agrarian associations today, should those members of the agrarian committee who voted in favour of the land market law go out and talk to people who come to the Supreme Council for the second time. Colleagues, we should listen to the Ukrainian people, we should hold a referendum, and after this referendum, we should make a balanced decision. "Paternality" passed the Law for a referendum. We're talking about asking people and not selling Ukrainian land.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u7	Buzansky Maksim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u8	Deputy Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u9	Dmitri Black, Major, 34th District, Dniproperty. Dear colleagues! On October 16, under the walls of the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection, a peak took place in Ukraine for the participation of representatives of the nuclear energy and industrial sectors of Ukraine, as well as the trade-related organization DP "StogZK", on the critical situation that has taken place in the Ukrainian nuclear-industrial complex "The State Enterprise "The Eastern Mining and Enriching Combined", which is strategically important for the energy independence of the state. The specified order of formation, calculation and installation of tariffs on electricity and heat produced at nuclear stations, approved by the NCRECR in 2019, the price of uranium oxide concentrate created the conditions for damage to the RP "SodGZC". This virtually prevents the single country producer of uranium concentrate from providing production. Development and environmentally sound maintenance of uranium objects lead to bankruptcy and elimination of uranium production in Ukraine. In turn, halting the activities of the SDR will increase social tension in the Dnipropetrovsk and Kirovograd regions, including the rise in unemployment. More than 5,000 people may lose their jobs. The lack of access to the local budgets of the city of Yellow Waters of the Dnipropetrov region, the township of Smoline and the town of Mala Viska Kirovograd Region poses a general threat to the existence of these settlements, the need to spend more than 800 million dollars a year of budget spending on the maintenance of hazardous uranium mines and the uranium processing complex, environmental threats in the regions mentioned above. The only way to address the problems of financial and economic activity of the East Coast Authority was to reorganise it by joining the NEC "Energoat". But the restructuring process is stopped, and the current discriminatory price does not allow the enterprise to form a resource to finance the current production activity in November-December this year. Since November 1st, the East Coast DP will be taking steps to stop uranium production with all its consequences. To sum up the above and take advantage of the possibility, I am addressing the head of the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine with a request to intervene in this situation and to prevent the destruction of the uranium sector of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u10	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, five months ago during the inauguration of President Zelenski, the President took on a very high and important goal, the goal being that Ukrainians in exile should return to the country. And so do we. But, you know, terrible statistics: 10 percent this year have increased the number of people who want to leave Ukraine. Why? Labour migration is the first thing people are looking for is where they can live. Yesterday, a multi-million-dollar rally of teachers came to the Supreme Council, and they were shocked, disappointed by the teachers' votes made by the "servants" in favour of the teachers. In fact, I think you're going to be shocked that in Kiev today, kindergarteners get 3,000 dollars. Tell me, who in this room knows how to spend a week for 3,000 dollars? Do we really want to have empty kindergartens with no teachers? The same degradation takes place in primary school. The same wage imbalance is in vocational and technical schools where masters don't get a decent salary. We were shocked by the information that they were taking allowances from teachers, and so today they are losing salaries to teachers in higher school. Guys, we're going to be a country without intelligence! You know, maybe there's an artificial intelligence in the government that now promises 90 percent of the population of Ukraine to give them the Internet, but without teachers and without doctors. For the first time, the budget for the following year does not raise salaries for the military, and this is a disaster. We would like to propose in this case to the majority that all of our experts are ready on the committees, together with the government, to work on these imbalances in wages when we have judges, prosecutors, power structures getting tens of thousands of dollars, and the intellect -- teachers, doctors -- stay with thousands to review it with you. And, by the way, in Catherine, from which troops were taken away yesterday, which was so difficult for our military, there are 42 children. After the Ukrainian army freed Catherine, these children, who had already gone to a school called the LNR, began to study at the Ukrainian school. We very much want those in power today who make a commitment, that in the freed territories of our army, where troops are being taken away today, there will be security, first of all, for the civilian population and for our children, who are Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u12	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u13	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! First of all, I am grateful to those Ukrainian citizens who have come to Kiev to express their position under the Supreme Council of Ukraine and my indignation about this thoughtless sale of land. The former government, it has established an external administration in Ukraine, and in fact Ukrainian citizens have ceased to own their state. Today's power, it would seem to us that it will restore to the people of Ukraine property and the right to choose, but you have also placed everywhere at the key positions of the Grantoids and in fact today you have taken a course to leave the people of Ukraine not only without power but also without land. Go outside, ask people. Why are you afraid of turning to the people and in a nationwide referendum for a national initiative to ask them if people want to sell land or are they ready to do so today? Why did you take on such a function? First of all, you didn't have it in your election promises. And I would very much like such important decisions as land, such as tariffs, not to be made without the participation of Ukrainian citizens, without the participation of the people. Please tell me, do you have the very name "People's Servants" that they do with servants who stop asking the householder's opinion and start living their virtual lives? So you need to think about it and go to the people and return to the sinful land and say that we will not please our grantors and others to sell Ukrainian land. This is the only property left in the Ukrainian people. This is the only property that can be inherited by children and grandchildren. That's why the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" today opposes the sale of land. The faction demands the power of the President of Ukraine to hold an all-U.S. referendum. If people say, please, but I'm sure people will tell you absolutely clearly that you can't do that, you can't sell land, you can't sell your own state, you can't sell your own people into slavery, even if they want emweephs, other grants and other soros. Dear friends, let us still take a civil choice: work in the name of the Ukrainian people and let the Ukrainian people know clearly and clearly that it is under the protection of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why we can't sell the land, we're definitely against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u14	Lunchenko Valeriy Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u15	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! What I'd like to do next is raise a very painful problem that exists in places today: financing medicine, specifically rural medicine. Let me give you some concrete examples from the area that I represent in the Supreme Council, this is the Poltava region, from my constituency. In 2019 a pilot project on medical financing through the National Health Service is under way in Poland. Financing takes place on the condition that 60 percent of the government budget and 40 percent of the local budgets. But these costs were barely enough for wages and energy. There was no development. So you can actually say this one. pilot this project, this system is not working at all. Let me give you a specific example. This is Mirrodščina, Mirrod, hospital district center, Mirgrad district hospital. This year, there was an acute problem with the closure of two large offices – the large villages of the Commission and the Great Soročinci – in the Mirgorod district hospital. At the expense of the city, part of the district and state budget, the problem was resolved. But people were led to despair, there was enormous social tension, there was no telling who to turn to. And given the condition of our roads, taking into account the quality of transport connections, it is clear that people were desperate and did not know what to do and who to turn to and where to get primary medical care. In the context of Mirgorod being the center of the hospital district, in the context of decentralization reform, and it provides services not only to the people of the Mirgorod region, but also to other areas of the Poltavian region, so the mass reduction of doctors is absolutely no way out, it's a road to nowhere. Another huge problem that exists today is the financing of our rural FAPs. In FAPAH alone, a rural person can obtain a clear and clear list of designated medical services. I repeat: a clear, determined, free list of medical services. And if there are things going on right now that the head of the FAP is serving as a sanitizer, a cashier, and that's only halfway there, what quality of health care in the rural area we're talking about. If nothing changes, the rural population will be completely deprived of access to primary health care. As much as you can talk about fantastic plans, health reform, but once again, the critical state of our roads and transport connections will not work. It is now preparing for the second reading of the 2020 budget. And it is essential that we take into account the financing, the proper financing, of the health system. So I turn to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health, to anticipate these expenses for the proper financing of primary health care and for the proper financing of district hospitals. Because people don't understand the quality of medical reform if it's directed at people, not people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u16	Thank you, Oleg Ivanovich. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u17	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Honorary colleagues, two years ago, were tortured and killed by a public figure, our colleague, in Sevierodonetski in the middle of the day for investigating the crimes committed by gangs in Severodonetsk, Lysichansk - smuggled in, smuggled in drugs, excise goods, fuel, robbing a budget in the city of Severodonetsk, which I spoke for three years from this rostrum, and this murder has not yet been investigated. Please honor our colleague’s memory. In the face of Sergey Samarski, let us recall Catherine Hanszück and all volunteers who have been tortured, who are being tortured, who are being killed today, and no case has yet been investigated. Please, Your Honor, honor the moment of silence. Thank you. From this great rostrum, I appeal to all the power organs to intervene in the volunteer situation. I call on my colleagues in Parliament to resume the work of the Temporary Investigation Commission on homicides that have taken place and have not been investigated, and also to work diligently and to prove the case, justice to the end, the logical end, because heroes do not die. Second of all, what's happening with the military in the city of Zolotomu. That's what everyone wants to do today. In this room there are national MPs who have been chosen from Lugansk -- Sergey the Magnificent, Victoria the Greeb, Alexander Sukhov -- we are always there. It's not as scary as it's drawn. Today, at the intersection of the Syrian zone, people want this divorce to be normal to their families, to the cemetery where their families are today, to the children, to the grandchildren, so that long-awaited peace can come. Step back is 100 steps forward. Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u18	Thank you. Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich, the Presidium! Larissa Bilozer, 15th constituency, Winnitzkin, Future Group. Today, I want to draw attention to the situation in the regions, which is about funding socio-economic development for the communities. We all know that 500 decrees and other decrees have been suspended since the beginning of the year. Arguments: Checks are made on corruption, on these objects that are defined. These are more than 10,000 government - designated objects in July for funding. And you know, communities don't have the strength, the problems of implementing local budgets, and there's a lot of commitment to these projects. We are particularly in the Vinnitsk district of eight majors, both from the People's Service, and from the Butt Group, and from the Future Group, and everyone has a problem with the fact that unreplaced roofs, which are not replaced by heating in schools, water projects are stopped, on roads, on many infrastructure objects. Not enough, 25 percent of these funds already have liabilities, they're registered in clout, well, in district governments. I would like to propose and appeal to the government, to the budget committee, but to review the obligations that are registered in treasury bodies as financial liabilities or liabilities in the form of contracts between contractors. Because so far many jobs, including 25 percent of the amount to be allocated in the Vinick region, have already been done. Contractors come and cut out the playgrounds, want to take windows, cut equipment, and take equipment to hospitals. I ask for these commitments to be settled today, and even though part of these commitments have been made by communities that have no stock of strength and gaps in their budgets and cannot execute, pay and release them at all, to resolve this problem in part, at the level of 10,000, about 10,000 objects throughout Ukraine. Today the mayors of cities are going to go to Kabmin and they're actually going to, you know, go out to the Kabmin and protest because the situation is really violent. So I'd like you to pay attention again. And we, you know, majors, feel like we're talking to a wall. To hear us, majors, and 199 of us, and yet to finance these decrees from the beginning of the year the infrastructures needed for our communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u20	Rachmanin is next. Let's see the tape. Show the entry. Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich. Svoslav Ivanovich Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u21	Good morning, dear fellows! You know, I'd like to go back to a very important topic that concerns literally everyone who talks to me today: what's really going on in Gold today, and what the Ukrainian authorities really want to achieve is the strategy that it's taken over. The Voice Party considers it a mistake to decide whether to distribute troops without a week's silence. And this formal statement yesterday that it's supposed to be seven-day silence doesn't correspond to reality. We have accurate information that literally the day before yesterday and yesterday, shots were fired directly at the divorce line, in the places that we're talking about. Every time we go to concessions where the opposite side isn't going to go to these concessions, we're squared weakening our positions. For every meter on our part, without clear terms from Russia, we will double our payment for the future. I call on the President and his team again and again. The Supreme Council is a place that makes decisions and forms the principles of foreign policy. We've created a temporary commission of inquiry that includes most of the members of the "Serial of the People" faction. Our job is to make sure we don't take the wrong steps. And we have to show both Russia and our Normandy partners, France and Germany, that Ukraine is primarily defending its interests and its messages of the day. We are grateful to both Germany and France and to our other partners for their many years of support, in fact, for the five - year support they provide, and for the opposition of the Russian aggressor. And we appreciate their contribution to the Minsk Accords, but we want to stress that there are interests in Ukraine that only it can protect, and we understand that. We cannot go into the political situation of other nations, and we need to make every step we take after the restoration of territorial integrity at Donbassa and in the Crimea meet the national interests of Ukraine. Once again, the dispersal of armies without cease-fire is a mistake. The Minsk agreements should be reviewed and the TSC, which was created in this Parliament, should become the centre of decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u22	I'm going to Rady. Please, the system, don't take the national MPs out of the list, okay? Thank you very much. Hustle Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u23	Igor Gus, 19th constituency. Dear friends, I would like to turn from this rostrum to the Prime Minister, Mr. Honcharuk, on behalf of all the Volen deputies. We have a technological disaster on Volina, I'd call it that. Many of the deputies here were on Lake Light, one of the largest lakes in our country, it's a large resort tourist area. This year there were more than 300,000 vacationers in the world. But the current state of the water, so harshly said, has shrunk by an inch [40 cm], and the world is failing. Which one of you was on this lake -- I, by the way, invite you, this is really the pearl of Ukraine -- but a few hundred meters away from the water. Fittingly in Volina, there are so many volunteers and tourists, just Ukrainians, and foreigners are resting in the World, and they are being beaten. What is the reason? I'm sorry that government structures don't deal with this. I very much ask all Volino deputies to pay attention to this problem to Mr. Potter. What do we require? It is time to create a commission where the responsible people, primarily in the Ministry of Profitability of Minecology, will direct this commission, to allocate certain funds that cause such a great lake of the world to be washed away. There are many reasons: and the development of Hotislav’s career in the Brest region, Belarus, and other factors. But we're not specialists, we can't imagine and we can't let things get any worse and, God forbid, next year the amount of water will also go down, I don't know, up to a meter, and it'll just be a disaster not just for the area -- for the country, because the world in the future is really the tourist oasis of the whole country. Because there's going to be a new Adamchuk-Save Customs Pass, roads, infrastructure, the World's sewerage, around the world. That is, the system’s work for tourists to come, to save their money, to create jobs. So once again, we demand that Mr. Honcharuk create a work commission, set up a commission for this purpose, and start a job so that we can understand everything about the problem of the world’s mercy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions about a break of 10 minutes to advise the leaders of the MP factions and groups. Please approach the heads of the MP factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please turn on the microphone from the rostrum. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address all the Ukrainian national deputies right now. You know that society is now undergoing a rather turbulent process that is aimed at discussing and ignoring the issue of agricultural land sales, including foreign land. I want to tell you that this is not a secondary, third-rate question, this is essentially the life of our country. And we can't turn Parliament with you all together into a technical tool that just pushes buttons without hearing society without talking to people about everything that's going on. I want to tell you that any question can be corrected over time, but if Ukrainian land is sold to powerful international corporations, which is 72 percent of the territory of Ukraine, we will never play it again and we will never go back. It will be Argentina and similar countries that have gone through this categorically unacceptable technology, and have essentially been deprived of the right to own their land, to manage their land, and to ensure the national security of their country. I am no longer talking about millions of jobs for Ukrainians, the profits that our Ukrainian land brings for Ukrainians, quality food, and everything related to the food security of our country. And including this impact on all global world processes, because our land can feed at least 300 million people's ready-made food, that's the minimum. Our external markets for prepared food are the wealth of our country. If we are now thoughtless, without entirely consulting the agrarians, with society, to adopt any law on the sale of agricultural land, including international corporations, we will in fact remain with you, a people without land and a people without a future, and our future generations will no longer rule their land, because we will deprive them of these rights. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that thousands of agrarians are now under the Supreme Council. They want to go to the agrarian committee today, and they're addressing you here, under the walls. Go out to them, listen to them. Not on the bleachers, just listen to what they're saying because the fate of Ukraine is being decided. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u27	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Nikita Potteryev. Nikita Ruslanovich, two minutes of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u28	I want to draw the attention of all colleagues, who have literally now published another sociological study, from which comes the following, honourable colleagues, who, under slogans, seem to be protecting Ukrainian agriculture, people are trying to keep Ukrainian agriculture in begging. In fact, we give the right to 77 percent of people who have no bearing on living in a village, working on the earth, to decide how to live, how to survive those who actually live in a village. We discriminate against those who feed Ukraine, who provide billions of dollars of income to the budget. Of course, it may be advantageous to someone for business or political reasons. But I want to point out that at the moment, 6 percent of the pie owners get less than a thousand dollars a year from rent, that's 83 bracelets and 33 cents a month. 29 percent get between 1,000 and 3,000 dollars a year. Twenty. Sorry, 29 percent. 23 percent is between 3 and 5,000. At best, one gets 600 dollars a month from the ground, from one's own. Why is this happening? Because there's no price because the market determines a fair price. Of course, more than 70 percent of people who own and rent food do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u29	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u30	So I urge this Parliament to stop speculation on the human destiny of the people who live from the earth in reality.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u31	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are invited to consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Malaysia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes and the Protocol thereto (registration number 0002). It is suggested that we consider the simplified procedure. Please support and vote. Please be supportive. [[11:26:05]] For 236 Decision taken. The report is given by Hodakovsky’s Deputy Finance Minister, Pavel Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u32	Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Malaysia on the avoidance of double taxation, done on 4 August 2016 in Putrajaya. Ratification of the Agreement and its Protocol will help to avoid double taxation on the income of natural and legal persons occurring in the territory of both countries. In addition, the Agreement aims to prevent tax evasion, eliminate tax discrimination, and also create a mechanism to improve cooperation between the tax authorities of Ukraine and Malaysia. The following passive income tax rates are set out in the Agreement. Dividends: 15 percent. 5 percent for dividends that get a company that owns at least 20 percent of the equity in the company that pays off such dividends. Interest: 10 percent. Royalty: 8 percent. The total rates correspond to the general practice, according to the contracts that Ukraine has established, are in line with the OECD Model Convention. The subjects of the Treaty and the Protocol are the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the State Tax Office. In connection with this, please support the ratification of the Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u33	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, Yaremenek Bogdan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, at its meeting on 16 October 2019, considered the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Malaysia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes and the Protocol thereto, and concluded that it recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratify the Treaty and the Protocol. The purpose of the draft legislative act is to ratify the said Treaty and the Protocol to it in view of the fact that the state of income that arises today in the economic relations between the residents of Ukraine and Malaysia is subject to double taxation: first, in the country where the recipient of the income is resident; second, in the country where the activity in respect of which the income arises. Therefore, the agreement and its protocol will help to avoid double taxation and prevent tax evasion and reduce mutual tax barriers to foreign investment and trade. According to an explanatory note signed by the finance minister of Ukraine, the implementation of the law will not require additional budgetary funding. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no objection to the ratification of the international treaty in question. At the same time, it points to the need for the Government to initiate changes to the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Multilateral Convention on the Implementation of Measures relating to Taxation Treaties in order to counter the defusing of the tax base and the withdrawal of income from taxation, which contains references to the specified agreement with the aim of preventing the emergence of legal co-operations in the future. The committee holds the same position. So, dear colleagues, please support the committee's decision and ratify the agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u35	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up: two for, two for, and two against, the factions. Nemira Grigori Mihajlovich
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u36	Thank you. Gregory Nemira, faction of Fatherland. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of ratifying the agreement at two points of view. As already noted, this agreement meets the OSD criteria. Secondly, the tax rates themselves, which are mentioned in this agreement, are convenient for Ukraine. But there's one aspect that should be taken into account this time and for the future, because it's a unique case when a new law is being passed, but it's not being repealed by an old law which, according to the Law on Succession, can also be considered to be valid, namely, the same treaty, but between the Soviet Union and Malaysia since 1987. The thing is, it's not just a legal confusion, the fact is that these agreements essentially contain different tax rates. And for legal clarity, it would be already in this Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Prevention of Double Taxation between Ukraine and Malaysia to mention only one sentence: "The Subsequent ceases the operation of the Agreement between the Soviet Union and Malaysia since 1987." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u37	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u38	Thank you. Please, the word of Mary Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u39	Maria Mikolayovna Ionova
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u40	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. "European Solidarity" will support this Ratification Act. We agreed on this in both the text, these bets over a year and a half, and with the Ministry of Finance, and with the committee of profile, and with our international partners. Indeed, this is a very mutually beneficial arrangement. And it is this Protocol that will not only help to avoid double taxation, but also to avoid paying taxes. And the third is the mutual reduction of tax barriers to foreign investment and trade. As my previous colleague has pointed out, indeed, the deal was, we changed the agreement since 1987, and this agreement substantially reduced the tax rates of individual types of farm operations. I would like to point out that the main thing is that the dividend tax should not exceed 5 percent of the total dividend amount, which is actually owned by a company that owns at least 20 percent of the company's capital, which pays taxes and dividends, and so on. So we'd like to support it because we've been working for a long time, and we've agreed on all positions, and we're ready for ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u41	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u42	Thank you, Mr. Head. I would like to say that "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support this bill on the ratification of the Agreement on the avoidance of double taxation. But I would like to ask you, Mr. Head, that we have, in principle, identical 0002, 0003, as well as draft Law 0006, on the avoidance of double taxation with Britain and Malaysia, Cyprus and Malaysia. So I would like to ask them to vote, even in the future without discussion, in order to go faster to the more important draft laws that we have today. And we will certainly support them and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? I ask you to prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of a draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Malaysia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes and the Protocol thereto (registration number 0002). Please support and vote. [[11:34:54]] For 333 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol to Amend the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes (registration number 0003). I'd like to take a brief look at this. Please support and vote. [[11:35:37]] For 288 Decision taken. The report is given by Hodakovsky’s Deputy Finance Minister, Pavel Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u44	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Act ratifying the Protocol to Amend the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation. In the relationship between Ukraine and Cyprus, the Ukraine-Cyprus Inter-Governmental Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation has been in place since 8 November 2014. With a view to bringing the provisions of the Convention to the Model Convention of the RAC as well as to the Convention. and there was a Protocol in Kiev to Amend the Convention, which I have just mentioned. The Protocol provides for the taxation of dividends at a rate of 5 per cent if the actual owner of dividends is a company that owns at least 20 per cent of the equity of the dividend-paying company and invested in the acquisition of shares or other rights of the company equivalent to at least 100,000 euros, 10 per cent on dividends in all other cases. So the difference between the current Convention's settlement of this issue and what's proposed is that the two criteria are applied at the same time. The other one. Interest rate increases from 2 percent to 5 percent. Changes have been made with regard to the taxation of revenue from particle alienation in companies, where the value of immovable property is more than 50 percent of the value of all assets, assets of such companies located in Ukraine. Subjects to the Protocol are the Ministry of Finance and the State Tax Office. The protocol is important. And we ask Parliament to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u45	The report is given to the first deputy head of the Committee on Integration with the European Union of Galajchuk Vadim Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u46	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The draft law approves the completion of the necessary State procedures for the entry into force of the Protocol amending the Convention, the existing Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation. The protocol provides for the taxation of dividends at a rate of 5 per cent of the total amount of dividends if the actual owner of dividends is a company that owns a direct 20 per cent of the capital and invested in the acquisition of shares and other rights in the equivalent of at least 100,000 euros. In other cases, the tax rate will be 10 percent. There is also an increase in the rate of taxation of interest from 2 to 5 percent. Our committee on the integration of Ukraine into the European Union on 9 October 19th reviewed the text of the Protocol to Amend the Convention and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a basis and as a whole. This decision of the committee is also in line with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u47	Thank you, Vadim Sergiyovich. Please register: two in, two in, two in, two in fact, from factions. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u48	Please tell Mary Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u49	Jonah? Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, it's almost the same ratification of the amendment protocol to the Convention, the only thing is, the state here is Cyprus. We also worked on the document and agreed on all positions. I would like to point out that the difference is that in the old edition of article 13 of the Convention, those stakes that are currently marked were not defined. So for the time being, for example, the income that the resident of a treaty state receives from the alienation of shares that are more than 50 percent of their value, or most of their value directly or indirectly, that is, they can be taxed in another state. That is, a more extensive list, and the mutually beneficial percentages are also agreed. So "European Solidarity" will support this ratification. Please be supportive, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u51	Thank you. Chewchenko Eugene. Shevchenko Eugene Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u52	Good afternoon, colleagues. Please support the bill, because we should look very good at the international level in front of our partners, and the commitments we make must be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u53	Thank you. Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich. Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u54	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, dear people of Ukraine! Anyone who supports further concealment in offshors stolen by top corrupters from Ukraine of money, Ukrainians, Ukrainians, citizens of Ukraine, and promotes and supports the new Protocol, think about developing and protecting the Azarov Convention, in order to then hide the money stolen from the Ukrainians. Consider what the Protocol provides. They put their taxes down, for their offshores, from 300,000 euros and 100,000 euros, while the minimum pension in Ukraine for a Ukrainian is 2,000 dollars. They hide 3 million in offshors, and they hide 2,000 dollars in Ukrainians. We demand a completely different one. The time has come for the offshore to return the stolen in Ukraine's budget, the time has come, with Cyprus, including the opening of all the databases, the opening up of those who own the offshores, the return and return of the stolen top-corruption workers over the years to the Ukrainian budget. First of all, it's the money and the resource that can and should be used for the Pension Fund, to cover the deficit, to allocate money to support Ukrainian agrarians, not to sell it now. Try to sell Ukrainian land for a penny. The main thing that the Ukrainian authorities should do right now is join the international coalition of de-offshorization, with the discovery and return of the stolen in the Ukrainian budget. It's a BEPS mechanism, it's an international mechanism where, by the way, Cyprus even signed. It's time for us, Ukraine, to join this mechanism, and only then talk about other protocols with Cyprus and with other jurisdictions, the time to go back to the Ukrainian budget. That's why we're against this protocol now and against keeping it hidden from the Ukrainian budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all eager to speak. Please prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the Protocol on the Ratification of the Protocol to the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes (registration number 0003). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:44:18]] For 316 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, there is an offer for a break, and even it was less than 10 minutes, and not even 30 minutes, is an offer to work without interruption from 12:00 to 12:30. [[Noise Nodes]] I understand, but, well, there's an offer, I can put it to a vote. If there's no objection. Okay. The objection is also a good one, and I think we will see who, who, who, against whom, we will see. I'm betting on the vote that the morning meeting of the Supreme Council will take place today without interruption from 12:00 to 12:30. Please support and vote. [[11:45:20.]] For 275 Thank you. For 275. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been proposed a bill on the ratification of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland amending the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the elimination of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes and on the increase in the cost of property made in London on 10 February 1993 (registration number 0006). I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[11:46:18]] For 280 Decision taken. The report is given by Hodakovsky’s Deputy Finance Minister, Pavel Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Act ratifying the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland amending the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the elimination of double taxation. In the relationship between Ukraine and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, there is a Convention of 10 of February 1993 on the avoidance of double taxation. For the purpose of bringing the provisions of the marked convention into line with the OECD Model Convention, it is proposed that the protocol be approved. The protocol provides for taxation of dividends at a rate of 5 per cent if the actual owner of dividends is a company that owns at least 20 per cent of the capital of the company that pays dividends and raises the interest rate from 10 to 15 per cent in all other cases; increases in the rate of interest from 0 to 5 per cent; increases in the rate of royalty tax from 0 to 5 per cent. There is also a new edition of the article on information exchange, which provides for a significant expansion of the tax exchange capabilities of contracting parties. There are also rules on the application of the right to an advantage. There will be no advantage in terms of income or property if one of the main objectives of any agreement or agreement between operators was to directly or indirectly obtain such an advantage, i.e. to implement the convention. In accordance with article 9 of the International Contracts Act, the treaty is subject to ratification. We ask you to support the ratification of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u57	Thank you. The first deputy head of the Committee on Integration with the European Union, Galajchuk Vadiyovich, is given the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, as before, the draft law approves the completion of the internal State procedures necessary to bring the protocol into force. The need for ratification of the protocol is explained by the fact that the changes agreed upon in the negotiation process introduce rates and order of taxation other than those provided for by legislation today and in accordance with the International Contracts Act are subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At its meeting on 9 October 2019, the Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union considered the text of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland amending the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the elimination of double taxation and tax evasion and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. This decision of the committee is fully in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u59	Thank you. Please write it down. What about the need to discuss the matter? No, it's not. If not. Arthur Volodymyrovich, why don't we give you a minute of motive, shall we? The motive is Arthur Volodymyrovich. Yonova, huh? Is there no objection? Jonah is two minutes. And let's go to the vote. Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. I'm very short, I won't take two minutes. Indeed, apart from tax evasion, the language also goes to an increase in the value of property, as well as an update on the Convention’s terms of reference, which arise in a treaty State and may be taxed in that State. But if the beneficial owner is a resident of another contracting State, the tax should not exceed 5 percent of the total amount of the royalty. So this rule is set for the first time. So European Solidarity will also support this ratification. I'm asking my colleagues to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I propose to proceed to the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland amending the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the elimination of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes and on the increase in the value of property made in London on 10 February 1993 (registration No. 0006). Please support and vote. [[11:51:57]] For 323 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. People's Servant - 225, Opposition Platform - Life - 28, European Solidarity - 18, Parenthood - 18, For the Future - 11, Voice - 16, non-fractional - 17. Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, we move on to the next item of our agenda. A draft Decision on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of mass disturbances in the city of Odessa, which took place on May 2, 2014 and caused serious consequences, as well as the improper performance by law enforcement agencies of their duties in the area of law enforcement. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the issue of reviewing this draft with a reduced procedure. Please prepare for the vote. Please vote and vote. [[11:53:18]] For 266 Decision taken. I give the floor to the national MP of Ukraine, Mikola Leonidovich Skork. Please, Mikolo Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u63	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! Your opinion is on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution 2198 of 2 October 2019 on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the mass disturbances in Odessa that took place on 2 May 2014 and caused serious consequences, as well as the improper performance by the law enforcement authorities of their duties in the area of law enforcement. Dear colleagues, I wanted to thank today's composition of the Supreme Council for the fact that this issue finally came up in the session room. This draft decision was made by the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". And I wanted to thank the factions of the People's Servant Party, the Fatherland faction and the House of Deputies for the Future for putting their representatives on this committee. I wanted to thank the regulatory committee for supporting the introduction of this issue into the hall. Our political power sought him for quite some time. We consider it to be one of the key to restoring peace and civil peace in our country. We consider this question to be one of the key to proving that we have one law for all. It's going to be a very important medium and Ukrainian society, and the world's society that in Ukraine, really, the new authority that it's really ready to investigate the crimes of the past few years. The Supreme Council is a political body, we are not able to conduct investigations, that is to admit who is to blame, who is not to blame, who is to be sentenced. But we need to encourage our law enforcement agencies to really do what society demands of them, which requires of them by law. I'm sure behind this temporary investigation committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u64	Please give me 10 seconds. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u65	I very much hope that you will support it, and I very much hope that this will be followed by other temporary commissions of inquiry on the resonance events of the past years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u66	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u67	The honourable Presidium, honourable national deputies, the regulatory committee at its meeting reviewed the draft Parliament’s Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of the Mass Upheavals in Odessa, which took place on May 2, 2014, and caused serious consequences, as well as the improper performance by the law enforcement authorities of their duties in the area of law enforcement. In accordance with paragraph 3 of the draft decision, it is proposed to determine that the composition of 18 national deputies should be based on the principle of proportional representation, namely: 1 representative of 20 national deputies. But according to the draft decree, a quantification is proposed for 11 national MPs, including, as has already been reported, factions, parties: "The Opposition Platform for Life", "The Servant of the People", "The Fatherland" and the MPs for the Future." The factions of the European Solidarity Party and the Voice Party are not represented in the draft decree. The committee also pointed out that only seven members of the temporary commission had been offered from the MP's "Serial of the People" faction. But based on the principle of ensuring the principle of proportional representation, this faction has the right to submit 5 more representatives. And according to what was said, the committee decided to recommend to Parliament a draft of this decree (registration number 2198) and to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, request to sign up: two in favour, two in favour. Yes, welcome to the speech of the National MP Sofia Romanovna Fedin, the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u69	Sophia Fedina, European Solidarity. Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u70	I didn't hear. Who? Ah, Victoria Sumar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u71	I remember this day very well, my dear colleagues, on May 2, 2014. It's a great human tragedy. The human tragedy that has taken place in the face of the same tragedy that has taken place in the country in general. Perhaps 2014 was the most difficult year in Ukraine and in the lives of many of us. At that time, the situation was not just in Odessa. Remember, when the Celestial 100 was shot, Russia seized Crimea by then. When Crimea was involved, it was an annexation, starting the chambers, actually, Donbas. The buildings in Lugansk and Donetsk were enchanted. Then the same events tried to broadcast to Dnipro, Kharkiv, and Odessa. The tragedy was that Russia did not need only Donbas. Russia needed Ukraine, Ukraine’s division in fact, to create a belt from the Russian border by cutting Ukraine off from the sea to Transnistria, thus providing its Crimea. And Odessa was a strategic goal. And what we managed to keep Ukrainian Dnipro, Ukrainian Kharkiv and Ukrainian Odessa in 14 years is a huge feat of the Ukrainian people. Unfortunately, we have a situation right now where we didn't hold Doneck and Lugansk. And we have to solve this situation now. Now, what we're being offered, forgive me, it looks like politics and reversions in relation to Moscow, because only Russian TV channels want to broadcast today the politicalization of this topic, on which the answers should certainly be given by law enforcement. And you know, there's a report from an international consultative group that's already published on the Council of Europe website, which clearly describes it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u72	Ten seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u73	There was no craftsmanship in the tragedy that had taken place. We urge law enforcement officials to produce the results of the investigation and not to politicize the subject in any way. And don't let God get us in a situation again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u74	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Andriyovich Kloczka, the political party "Slut of the People". I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Stefanisin Olga Anatoliyev Political Party "The Voice."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u75	Please pass the word to Bobrovsky Solomia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u76	Please, National Deputy Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u77	Good afternoon! You know, I'm impressed, and the Odessy feels like we have either some kind of schizophrenia or a lack of political memory from February to May in Odessa. Little bit, I think we should do the TSC on a single person, the leader of this TSC, Mr. Skorik. I'll remind you. I have a question. First, who ordered the beating of activists and journalists under the walls of the district government, and set up blocks that prevented people from entering the premises at the time of the beating? That's the first one. The other one. What the hell was the flag of the Russian Federation hanging from 2 p.m. to 8 p.m. on March 3? That's the second question. Question three. Why are you one of the 36 deputies who did not vote in favour of the Law on the Recognition of Ukrainian Sovereignty in Interimly Occupied Territories on 18 January 2018? It's like at least three questions that you have today. Not enough going back to March 3rd and the flag of the Russian Federation at the district administration, I remind you of the negotiations that were recorded and taken into account in the criminal case of the personal torture of Mr. Zatulin, the ex-deputy of the Russian Federation, and the second, Mr. Glazieryev, who was in charge of the economic bloc of Novorosia. What did they do, how did they smoke and get to the district council session? The other one. It seems to me that our TSC, the only one that is possible, can be in three words: the Ukrainian Security Service. And let them finally conclude the events that took place five years ago: who ordered, who performed, who was the author of the story of the Odessa people, who allowed the things that happened, including the death of our Ukrainian citizens. And the third. Thank God Odessa is Odessa. But Odessa, thank God, this is Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word is given to National Deputy Guza Igor Volodimirovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u79	Igor Gus, 19th constituency. Knowing that this issue would be under consideration today, I was looking at the footage of the May 2nd in Odessa when Ukrainian patriots gave way to the pro-Russian separatist gang. They cut back on those who helped the gang. For no one is the secret that this gang was helping to implement the Russian ex-head scenario of the Odessa District Administration of Mikola Skorik, who is present in this room, the representative of the Odessa Region Party, the person who supported the anti-Majdan in the Odessa region. I think I'm going to Mr. Arahamaia, Mr. Korneyenka: you guys can't let this man be the head of the TSC right now. Give your candidature to the "Serve of the People", an adequate man who may be from Odessa, who will see this situation fairly, but not the person who was the representative of Yanukovic, not the person who led the district administration that supported the anti-Majdan. It's a disgrace! So this is going to be a big mistake. This TSK Mr. Skorik will use against Ukraine to reverse this situation against Ukraine. So from this rostrum, I sincerely ask the leadership of the "Serves of the People" to make changes to this decision now, to put the head of the TSC as the "Serve of the People" representative, and then we all vote, and that will be objective. Otherwise, this TSK will work against Ukraine and show history on May 2 as a history when anti-Majdan will win over Maidan. Thank you. Listen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u80	Out of motive, right? Guys, I'm gonna give the factions one minute to those who didn't make it. Again, the only thing I want to ask. Society, if we're going to write: two for two against, two against, two against, two against, two against. Otherwise, we do. I'm sorry. What's "no"? What's "no"? That's why it's called pros or cons. I give my word first with a motive. Dear colleagues, the party. [[Noise Nodes]] Now, I know. The Fatherland, after that, the Servant of the People, and after that, you are. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite a representative of Fatherland, who will? National MP Sobolev, please, for reasons of motive, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, aren't you surprised by the name of the commission - about any mass disturbances? You want to create a commission -- let's make it -- about trying to capture state power by Russian and pro-Russian separatists in the Odessa region. Let's create the same commission on Zaporozhye. Did anyone forget what happened in Zaporozhye when they tried to create the "Resident People's Republic"? Someone may have forgotten how the Berdian Republic was formed, and then the one who held the rally received the title of honorary citizen by the Ukrainian authorities? Where are we gonna go? If you're a commission, call it what it should be called, and don't hide. We will not vote for this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u82	Thank you. I'm inviting the People's Service, the Bujansky People's Deputy asked for a motive, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! It's been five years since this horrible mass murder happened, and there can't be anyone to blame. We don't define the culprits here, we don't determine the investigation, we don't determine the court. But we really need to give a boost. I've heard statements by colleagues from Voice about Mr. Skork's personality, which they don't like. No one would care if you had 5 years to send Mr. Skorik to prison if he was guilty. But right now, we need to push for the investigation of this case. It was a mass murder of Ukrainian citizens. If they were separatists, they should have been responsible for the investigation. But murder is always murder. And I call on Parliament to support the establishment of this commission so that we can finally know what has happened, and then the investigation and the court will pass judgments if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u84	Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues! I'm sorry, I have a big request for you: if we want to finish this story, don't call each other's names. Because I have it now. You should give Mrs. Bobrowski one minute and one minute Mr. Spark for a lineup, to answer the lines. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, please, since Mr. Skork was the first to be named, I'm giving it to someone after that. Please, Mr. Skorik, one minute in connection with questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u85	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! I'm not going to answer the images. I want to go back to all the factions that supported this project in the process of preparing it, to support it. This is going to be an important medium, once again, to Ukrainian society, to the point that we have really different powers, that we have existing Ukrainian laws, that we have, as in a normal European country, the most important value is human life, not the slogans of pseudo-patriotism, which are expressed by people who have no right to be called activists or national MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u86	Please. Yes, Sergey Rachmanin of Voice, because it was called Voice. Please, one minute, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u87	Thank you, Your Honor. We did not have five years to frame those who were guilty of the huge number of crimes committed in Ukraine and, sadly, did not get a proper legal evaluation. I hope it's a political force that. The leader of which he promised to plant as soon as the time came, has enough time, power and capacity to put down anyone who violated Ukrainian legislation, who blamed Ukraine, who led to the death of Ukrainian citizens. And I hope that in the near future, the relevant competent authorities, the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Police, the Attorney General's Office will do their utmost to get everyone to sit down, and that will be the best respect and respect for the dead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u88	Thank you. And another minute of motive. People's deputy Boyko. All of it. And then we move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u89	Dear Sir! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I'd like to invite you to stop the plowing and remove it in this room, because we've seen it for five years, and we don't have to use the hall to exhale your emotions. Every year I came to Odessa on May 2, and I saw with my own eyes the abuse of the relatives of the dead in this terrible tragedy, which is no longer due. And our TSC is going to resume the investigation because it's been blocked for five years, and no one's been investigating this terrible tragedy. And we're the only thing we want, in fact, not us, but everybody else, we want to, we demand justice. And there will be a fair investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm going to ask all the MPs to take up jobs, we're going to vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Decree establishing the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of mass disturbances in Odessa, which took place on 2 May 2014 and caused serious consequences, as well as the improper performance by law enforcement authorities of their duties in the area of law enforcement (project registration number 2198). Is the voting room ready? Ready. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:13:44]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Show the factions, please. Servant of the People – 32, Opposition Platform – 34, European Solidarity – 0, Fatherland – 0, Future – 6, Voice – 0, non-fractional – 7. Let's move on to the next question. Dear colleagues, there is a question about the draft Act amending certain legislative acts (for the preservation of cultural values) (draft No. 2187). Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please, I am asking about the short-term procedure of Bill 2187. Please vote and vote. [[12:15:02]] For 219 Decision taken. I give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Vladislavovich Tkachenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u91	Good afternoon! It is symbolic that the issue of the preservation of cultural values in temporarily occupied territories is being considered after the question of the creation of a commission in Odessa. I would like to remind those who have allowed these temporarily occupied territories to be created, that it is in their councils in these territories that they have invited Russian troops to these territories that are forcing us to consider this issue right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, please. Please, I'll ask the reporter to stop. Dear colleagues! I pray for peace. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. Dear National Deputies! I'm talking to the national MPs again. We moved on to the next question. Dear colleagues, if the national deputies don't sit in their seats in a minute, I'll have to close the meetings. Please enable Alexander Tuck in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u93	Colleagues, I understand your emotional state right now. But the issues that we're proposing right now concern the occupied areas and the preservation of our cultural values there. If you don't care, continue with the tightness, or sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please! I turn to the "Serial of the People" faction, to the factions of others who are there, to the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life," to the non-factional. Please take your seats according to the tables where your surnames are written. Dear colleagues, may I continue to hold the meetings of the Supreme Council? Dear colleagues, I continue to hold meetings of the Supreme Council. And I would like to invite once again to the words of the Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Vladislavovich Tkachenka on Bill 2187 on amending certain legislative acts (for the preservation of cultural values). Please, Alexander Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u95	Thank you, colleagues. This is about preserving the cultural values of Ukraine in temporarily occupied areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions and in the Republic of Crimea. It's about 94 museums that are in this area and where there are cultural values that belong to the state of Ukraine. In the Republic of Crimea alone, there are more than 1 million museum objects belonging to Ukraine. There's a strong fact that when you take pictures of Avasovsky to the Russian Federation from the feudal museum and they consider them to be their own. Currently, the Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports is unable to regulate the appointment of directors of these museums without consulting local authorities. This law is called upon to preserve our cultural values in temporarily occupied areas in order to allow us to assign them to a simplified procedure, as well as to preserve our cultural values in these museums. I'm asking you very much to support this law because it's about the state of Ukraine that we're protecting here and now. The committee generally suggests that this law be approved in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u96	Thank you, Alexander Vladislavovich. The account. I give the floor to the deputy head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy of Eugenia Mikhail Kravczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u97	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! Today, cultural values belonging to the Ukrainian people, but they are in museums and historical cultural reserves in the territory of the temporarily occupied Donbas and Crimea, which are incorporated into the State Catalogue of the Russian Federation Museum. In fact, they are stolen Russia. The Ukrainian authorities do not have access to these areas, nor do they have Ukrainian legislation or international legislation. Ukrainian museums have been renamed, and occupation authorities appoint their pseudo directors without physical access to cultural values. Ukraine needs to defend national interests in the legal and legal arena in the international arena. Museums as legal persons should be represented by legally appointed directors. The bill, which is currently under consideration, is aimed at resolving these issues by introducing a simplified procedure for the appointment of new head offices in temporarily occupied areas. The appointed committee bill was discussed at its meeting on October 29. GNEW concluded that certain laws needed further work, and the committee was ready to do so. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of draft registration number 2187 in the first reading. Please support the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u98	Thank you, Eugene Mikhailna. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion of this bill. I ask representatives of political parties, political factions and groups to sign up: two in favour, two in opposition. The only thing I'm warning you is two in a row, two in a row. If anyone makes a mistake, I'll stop giving my word. Please. Please, People's Deputies of Poturayev, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u99	Good day again. Dear colleagues, we ask Parliament, the Supreme Council to support this bill, because we really need all the legal counsel, all the struggle for Ukrainian cultural values with all the tools and resources that we can use not only but also create. So we really need legitimate citizens who live in our territories who will be appointed leaders of those cultural institutions that are under occupation, where Ukrainian cultural values are actually stolen. And we have to wage the same war that we wage with the invader and the aggressor on the front, in a diplomatic direction. We ask for the support of this bill. We also have to fight, unfortunately, for our cultural values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u100	Thank you. I give the floor to Sofia's national deputy Romanovna Fedini. Ah, I'm sorry, the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u101	Sophia Fedina, European Solidarity. I give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u102	The People's Deputy from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, the essence of this law, the name of this law and what is written in this law are completely different things. Because there is no word in this law about the preservation of cultural values. There's a point that says that culture leaders in occupied areas are assigned without a competition. Period. We discussed this law on the committee. Perhaps as a position, although it's a parliamentary law, the Ministry of Culture says it's necessary to represent Ukraine's interests abroad, although it can now be represented. Maybe the purpose of this law was normal, but for the first time, we're not doing it in transitional positions to special laws or the Law on Temporary Occupied Areas when we're talking about temporarily occupied territories, and in fact in the body of the law, we're not fixing the temporaryity, but the permanence of our occupation. So we said to our colleagues: let's take this as a change if you think it's necessary. Although, once again, the preservation of cultural values in the law is not a word. If you want to appoint the leaders of these non-competition cultural institutions, and now at the time of the competition, enter special positions into the transitional provisions of the Temporary Occupied Areas Act. Because we're creating a dangerous precedent. This is the first law where we are constantly legitimizing our occupation. That's why our faction understands. without objecting to what the authors want to do, without understanding the truth, for what, because the law does not say anything about it, there will be no vote for it in such a form. That's why we're going to hold on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u104	Thank you. I give the floor to national deputy Taras Ivanovich Batenka, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u105	Good afternoon, dear friends, dear colleagues! Remember, Professor Presbyterian says, "We need a law like armor, not just a paper." We'd like this bill first of all to be like the law on "Sciph gold," about what's already been exported and we can't bring it back. Because we know about the unique Scythian gold that was exhibited in museums in the Netherlands during the occupation of Crimea. And so far, the question of Ukraine's return of unique exhibits from the Crimea Museum has been settled in the courts of the Amsterdam District Court since 2014. We can't return it, the courts are stalling, we, the Ukrainian side, are not successfully taking part in these trials, we're seizing the courts. The Netherlands is afraid to make interim decisions that are positive for Ukraine, fearing that the pressure of the Russian Federation will increase for its country. Now, in recent days, it has been decided to transfer the case of "Scif gold" from the District Administrative Court of the Netherlands to The Hague. Guys, we need a serious bill. We have enough symbolic laws. We want to work so that this bill can be helpful to both our business in the Netherlands and in general to the return of our unique historical and cultural values that are now exported outside the Ukrainian state from the temporarily occupied territories to the Russian Federation. Let us all work hard together on his second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u106	Thank you. Your Honor, does anyone have a desire to speak for the reasons of those factions or groups that did not share? Please, Alexander Tkachenko, head of the committee, and the "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u107	For Mr. Batenko. It's about "Sciph gold," and this law, like armor, allows us to preserve, including "Scif gold." With regard to occupied territories, the reference is to other laws governing this status. And speaking of this law on the legalization of occupied territories, of course, it's not going to work, it's just manipulation. Please allow us, along with the Ministry, to preserve our cultural values thanks to the Ukrainian directors of these museums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u108	Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak out on the basis of the vote? None. Then, your Honorable Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I ask you to prepare yourself for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (on the preservation of cultural values) (No.2181). The project is proposed for adoption in the first reading. Oh, 2187, I'm sorry. Draft Law 2187: Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine (for the preservation of cultural values) (first reading). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? If you're ready, please vote and vote. [[12:29:40]] For 240 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. The "Serve of the People" faction – 211, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 1, "Fathership" – 9, "For the Future" – 8, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 11. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Here we go to the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the Natural Gas Market of Ukraine on the classification of prices and the non-inclusion of prices and tariffs for natural gas (Act No. 1122). Dear friends, before we get to the point, I'd like us to come back again, because from behind, we have children from Audio school, School No. 1 of the seventh grade. Let's say hello.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u109	Thank you. Friends, we are going to consider the draft Act amending the Law on the Natural Gas Market in Ukraine to order prices and prevent prices and tariffs from rising to natural gas (No. 1122). There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified procedure. Please prepare for the vote. Proposal for a simplified procedure for Bill 1122. Please vote and vote. [[12:31:44]] For 239. Decision taken. I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine Yuri Anatoliovich Boyka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u110	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Practically all the political forces that went to the polls went under the slogan of improving people’s living conditions. The main factor that has led to the mass poverty of our citizens over the past five years has been a significant increase in municipal tariffs. And the main factor that led to the increase in municipal tariffs was the eightfold increase in the cost of self-sustainment gas for all consumer categories. Bill 1122, if adopted, restores the fairness of formation and municipal tariffs and energy prices. It's pretty simple. We have Ukraine extracting 15 billion cubic metres of its own gas, which belongs to the people of Ukraine, to all citizens, and it has a cost plus twenty percent of its own gas -- 2,000, 500 dollars. At the same time, we're buying 15 billion cubic metres of gas from the outside. And this bill, it gives a formula that makes the price mix of these two gases and allows us not to raise the cost of utility tariffs and gas prices, but, let's say, gas prices first and then municipal tariffs. This will be a fair, understandable price that will allow people to pay municipal tariffs rather than to be dependent on wood, heating, garbage and other things, and to give up the benefits of civilization, which have led to the last five years. I propose to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u111	Thank you. I would like to invite the head of the Committee on Energy and Housing, National Deputy Andria Gerus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Energy and Housing Services at its meeting on October 2, 2019, reviewed the draft Act amending the Law on the Natural Gas Market in Ukraine on the classification of prices and the non-admission of prices and tariffs for natural gas. During the discussion of the Committee's position, a number of comments were made regarding the determination of the price of natural gas under the proposed bill formula. The main science-expert management, sharing the whole idea of the need for a fundamental order of pricing in the area of natural gas supply, cannot at the same time support the resolution of this issue in the bill's proposed way. In addition, the committee received conclusions on a bill from the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities. According to the current legislation, the NCREKP notes that in order to ensure that price policy is implemented, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been given authority. Thus, the adoption of the draft law is contrary to the requirements of current legislation and is inappropriate. As a result of the consideration, the committee decided not to approve the bill and a decision would be taken in the Hall. In general, tariffs. I mean, in October-month, in this month that we have today, the price of gas for the population has been reduced by almost 5 percent. So over the last seven months, the population's gas price has been reduced by 35 percent, and the Ukrainians will see it in their October-month payments. We're also seeing a decrease in the price of electricity in wholesale markets. In two months, the price of electricity fell by almost 20 copies. That's why we have positive trends. The bill in question can be further elaborated on the committee, and it is appropriate to consider a more perfect, finalized bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u113	Are you done? Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to sign up for this bill. Please register with factions and MPs: two in favour, two in favour. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Vladimir Viktorovich. And the People's Deputy Koltunović, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u114	Dear Chairman! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I've already partially annulled this bill today. I'd like to draw your attention to a few numbers. In 2014-2019, the price of gas increased by more than 9 times, the price of heating — 13 times the price of hot water — by 5.5 times, the debt for residential services increased by more than 5 times. It's all the result of antisocial policy and low economic policy of the previous government, and so we insisted that the new team that came to power review tariffs, because there are economically-based weights for it. Today, the committee representative said that we have mechanisms, and we're lowering partially the price of gas, but the average customs cost of import gas is going down twice, and we're only going to be reduced by the price of gas from 8,550 to 6,120. We're demanding a parity reduction in gas prices. That's the first one. The other one. Reduced heating tariffs and hot water supply Because even though there is a single reduction in gas prices in individual regions, we see that the heating tariff and hot water tariff are not viewed as a reduction. And so the proposed formula, which was today, is what makes it possible for us to take into account the average customs value of the import gas, of our own production, and of the 22 percent profitability. Because even when Baltzerovich, coming to power in Poland in 1989, proposed 14 draft laws that were crucial, and one of them was the economy in state corporations. And I also urge today that we can no longer, at the expense of the citizens, their pockets, subsidize the National Shareholder Company of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. So I urge you to support this draft law in the first reading and to make your proposals for the calculation of what we see as a gas tariff. And to our citizens, I want to say that the price of gas as a result of this formula is going to be 4 dollars 50 dollars per cube, or 4 thousand 500 dollars, and after the adoption of the second draft law, we can go out by 3,000 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u115	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u116	We can go for 3,000 dollars per thousand cubic meters of gas. Here are the real numbers. These are economically sound parameters, and we're going to ask you to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u117	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Kucherenko, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u118	Alexy Kucherenko, "Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, dear Ukrainians, colleagues! In fact, the question of gas pricing, it's very relevant today, and you all, and we all understand that, we've gone through an electoral campaign. I can point out that it was in court, not just in economic and on-screen discussions, that the so-called Yulia Timoshenko and her legal team that proved the economic inequity of gas prices over the course of two and a half years. This is Regulation 315. For two and a half years, an uneconomically based price was paid to the population, to the companies of the thermal power plant, and in debt, all of this was covered by market slogans of transformation. By the way, I have a question for the government: could you not finally tell us, and what are you going to do, and how are you going to do a recalculation for this period and pay back the surplus that the government of Ukraine has brought to the population? Now for the bill that we're considering. The Fatherland faction will support this bill, because we see a fairly professional approach, and I am grateful to the author, Mr. Boyke. But we can only say one thing. There are many things that could be worked out to make this model of pricing really effective. It can actually lower the price of gas for the population. But first of all, we have a question: why hasn't there been two months on the committee of profile, and there's essentially an alternative Bill 1177 Timoshenko, Soboljeva, Kucherenka, Vlasenka, which provides for a simple mechanism such that Ukrainian, state-owned gas, with a cost-effectiveness of up to 30 percent is directed at the needs of the population and the heat utility, and the rest, in fact, can be regulated by this formula? That's how we see the possibility of redrafting this bill in a second reading and doing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u119	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u120	a truly economically sound but social model of gas pricing. That is why we support cooperation with a view to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u121	Thank you. The only thing, Mr. Alexia, I want to say is that there is no such concept in the Rules -- almost an alternative. Either there's an alternative or there's no alternative. And 1177, he's registered. I think it's going to have to pay attention to the committee. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to the statement of the National Deputy Bondar, the faction of European Solidarity. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u122	Thank you. My colleagues, I want to say that at the eighth vocation, the same bill has already been registered by the same authors -- it's 9403. And the conclusions of both the budget and the integration issues and the prevention and the conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers were all negative. According to the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act, the Law, the natural gas market functions on the basis of free, fair competition, in addition to the activities of natural monopolies, and in particular under the principles of free natural gas trade and the State's non-interference in the functioning of the natural gas market, except in cases where this is necessary to remedy market failures or to provide other common interests, provided that such interference is carried out in a minimally accessible manner. That's why the faction "European Solidarity" will refrain from adopting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there are no more speakers, I ask the National MPs. Yes, yes. I invite a representative of the government, Deputy Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection Alexi Mikhajlovich Rybkin. Please, Alexy Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, the government supports the conclusion of the GNEU and supports the position of head of the committee that has been bugged to produce more perfect drafts, so we support those statements that have been made by honourable deputies. Moreover, I can say that we have the government's goal and the government's goal of 9.1: fewer Ukrainians are outside energy poverty and increased energy efficiency of the economy. And while you and I will find ways to increase the competitiveness of the economy and combat energy poverty, I want to look to people. We've got 400 million dollars a year for heat loans to drown buildings, more energy-efficient buildings to reduce payment, and one and a half. 1.6 billion dollars in the FSB energy efficiency fund. That's why we're also working on another financial mechanism to support small, medium-sized businesses and industries, to modernize networks to make Ukraine more energy efficient and lower payments that our people and industry pay. Go and take this money, because they shouldn't be in the budget, they have to be spent on people, to reduce our payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u125	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, if there are no more willing to comment, I am voting on the draft Law amending the Law on the Natural Gas Market on the classification of prices and the non-inclusion of prices and tariffs on natural gas (draft number 1122). Is everyone ready to vote? Ready? Dear colleagues, please vote. [[12:45:45.]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 114, if you do not make a decision regarding the adoption of the bill as a basis. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" - 33, "Resistance Platform" - 34, "European Solidarity" - 0, "Fatherhood" - 10, "For the Future" - 5, "Voice" - 0, non-fractional - 8. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 114, if it is not up to me to accept the bill as a basis, I must put in other options to address this issue. The next question I ask is the return of the subject of the legislative initiative to draft Bill No. 1122 on amending the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act on the classification of prices and the non-admission of prices and tariffs for natural gas. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please vote and support this decision. [[12:47:07]] For 264 The bill returns to the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to the next question: Bill 1155. Draft Law amending the Forest Code to establish a moratorium on the complete logging of forests and green plants. I'm putting this issue under a reduced procedure. Please vote and vote. [[12:47:51]] For 226 Decision taken. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Spenov Dmitry Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u126	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Good afternoon, distinguished people of Ukraine. Every child knows that the forest is the lungs of our planet. Every day we hear from the media about the problems of mass and uncontrolled deforestation. This bill is aimed at stopping this process. Colleagues, between 2008 and 2017, destroyed 4 million acres [4 million ha] and restored only 500,000 acres [500,000 ha]. So in 10 years, only 12.5 percent of the forest has been restored. That is why the project envisions the introduction of a 10-year moratorium on the whole edge of the forest. And there's a reason to think about it. In the 17th year, the EU fined Poland for logging, and in 2018, Ukraine was asked to lift the moratorium on forest exports. I note that the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection has supported this idea despite technical observations. The Ministry of Community and Territory Development has generally recognized the idea as essential and relevant. We all realize that if the hall does not now support the initiative, the deforestation situation will continue. The project is noted, namely, that the Forest Code does not regulate the issue of green plantings in cities. Personally to second reading, I'm going to make an amendment to exclude this rule from the bill. And as for land regulation in cities, I'm going to introduce a new bill. Why push this issue -- banning deforestation -- if together we can do the right thing for all Ukrainians? Please support the project in the first reading and start a real job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u127	Thank you, Dmitri Juryovich. I invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Use of the People’s Deputy Julius Juryovna Ovčinnikov to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u128	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished people of Ukraine! The Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use introduced a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Forest Code for the establishment of a moratorium on the complete cutting-off of forests and green plants (registration No. 1155), submitted by national deputy Dmitr Juryovich Špenov. For the purpose of the draft law, as already stated by Mr. People's MP, and in the Explanatory Note, we see that the process of further destruction of forests and green plantings in cities and other populated areas of Ukraine is being halted, I emphasize. There are three main points about this bill that we would like to point out by the committee's decisions today. First of all, in their expert conclusions, two organizations and one structural unit made it clear, particularly the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection, it's the State Forest Resources Agency and the Chief Research and Research Office. All refer to article 4 of the Ukrainian Forest Code, which clearly states that green plantings are not part of the Forest Fund, including parks, gardens, boulevards, squares, and so forth. So what we can talk about is the Moratorium issue. The moratorium on the removal of green plantings in the area of populated areas cannot be governed by the Forest Code, as stated in the title of the bill itself, but must be decided by the Ukrainian Law on the well - being of the population. Or a separate piece of legislation. These institutions and organizations, they're still referring to sending a draft for work. Secondly, the committee, co-sponsored by the Ministry of Environment, Energy and Environmental Protection, would like to point out that conservation of biodiversity is a top priority, implementation of agreements and everything. But when we're talking about "successful cuts," we don't pay any attention, because we can pick up a little bit of this that other types of cut that aren't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u129	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u130	They can lead to manipulation. Plus, total cutouts are a protection against caroids. And thirdly, we would like to point out that these are similar standards. So the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u131	Thank you. The committee recommends that we send you for work, I understand. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please register, two in, two against, from political factions and groups. I invite you, National Deputy Maxim Vitaliyovich Saurasov, political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u132	Give the word to the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u133	I see the same political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u134	Thank you. The "European Solidarity" faction analyzed this law, and we actually support the committee's decision that has just been made. For what reasons? You know, we've passed a lot of laws that seem to be fighting for deforestation. Remember, we adopted a moratorium on the export of wood, but then the moratorium, as experts, journalists, researchers, and the smuggling of wood did not decrease, but it did. We passed a bill on the preservation of Ukrainian forests and increased fines, but the number of driving after that did not increase. The bill proposes to establish a 10-year moratorium on total deforestation, attention, in addition to forest management and improvement of the quality of forests, which are carried out in an order approved by the central executive body. Today, forest management measures are foreseen and well - designed, but this is decided not by the central executive authority, that is, not by the Forest Agency, but by the government’s decision. So when we let the Forest Agency decide for itself what to do, what to do, we increase serious corruption risks, we stimulate deforestation. And what the report from the committee said is also true: green plantings in the settlements are not part of the Forest Fund, and then the moratorium on green plantings is not subject to regulation of the Forest Code. This issue would have to be resolved by making changes to other laws. Thus, the faction "European Solidarity" will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u135	Thank you. I invite you to the words of national deputy Vladimir Viktorovich Kabachenko, political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u136	Please pass the word to your colleague Mrs. Labunski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u137	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u138	Good afternoon, colleagues, Labunsky, the Fatherland faction. You know, it looks like the purpose of this bill looks good, but, you know, the previous Parliament has adopted so much legislation in the forest sector that everyone today knows that the forest sector is now on the verge of survival at all. The previous speaker correctly said: fines have been increased, yes, the responsibility for illegal logging has been increased. What's going on? The question today is not just before legislation. The first question is to the law enforcement agencies, that today the law enforcement agencies are not working at all with poaching and illegal logging, that today they're participating, I don't want to blame, but that's what happens if you take data. As far as the bill is concerned. First of all, it doesn't match today's classification of what a sanitary section is, what a section is, in this law, or in the Cabinet of Ministers' decree. According to this law, Minekoenergo’s permission to cut down forests and plants in general in the Red Book is withdrawn, and there is no telling who will solve this issue at all. The issue of cut-offs in populated areas has not been resolved. So the committee has decided to send a law to work on, and our faction also supports that decision. But I want to thank the Cabinet on Monday, as far as I know, we're invited to 11 o'clock in Minicoenergo, and we're about to have a meeting on forest reform. I think we're going to consider all these issues there and we're going to adopt normal legislation, and we're going to correct those mistakes that were, and the legislation that was mistakenly adopted by the previous Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u139	Thank you. Welcome to the National Deputy Matusevich Alexander Borisovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u140	Honorable Presidium, Honourable National Deputies, Honorable Foresters of Ukraine! You know, I'm glad that in almost two months of the work of the Ukrainian Parliament, we hear the word "forest" for the first time in this room. Because the forest sector of the country today has about 55,000 Ukrainians — those who not only produce forests every morning but also gather seeds, land forests, protect the forest from fires, and take other measures related to forest management. So today, in today's parliament, I'm one representative of the forest sector in Ukraine, so I'm happy to tell you who's interested in how forest management lives, how forests survive in eastern Ukraine, who, without State support, protect the forests of Hersonian and Santa Claus, Lugansk and Donetsk from fires and arbitrary cuts. As foresters in resource areas from their wages, they help foresters in the east and south to survive, and on other aspects of the daily difficult life of forest workers. But I'm going to try to tell Parliament the whole truth about the forest sector, and I'm going to do everything I can to make the image of a forester change in this country. Of course, the forest sector of Ukraine, as well as others, needs systematic reforms. And as a parliament, we must do everything we can to ensure that these reforms are for the benefit of the common people, not for them to sell or do anything else. And now essentially the bill. I've already said, the sector needs reform, but I'm grateful to the Committee on Ecology for translating this bill from a political to an professional level, for listening to the experts' opinion, and for deciding not to support this project, which will completely stop the work of the industry and the state will lose taxes, and thousands of people may find themselves in the streets who will fill the ranks of the unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u141	Thank you. I invite you to the words of Pope Michael Mikolaiovich, the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u142	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! I am grateful, above all, to the author of this bill, that we today have the opportunity to focus on society and to confirm that the Supreme Council is concerned about the state of the Ukrainian forests. If so, I would like to be a representative of Bukovina so that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can take its full route along the Carpathian routes. You'll see that we don't have Ukrainian Carpathians today -- we have solid forests of mountains. And what needs to be done and used is simply such a fundamental measure, and it is urgent. I would very much ask the drafters when they write drafts to communicate with experts in this field. Because I confirm that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with populist motives here, has made a dozen decisions that have been applauded by smugglers and foresters, because laws have been written in such a way that, firstly, they raise the corruption component; secondly, they have given the possibility of bypass maneuvers to cut out Ukrainian forests. And the end goal was never reached. So the faction of the political platform "For Life" will vote in favour of this bill, and will vote in favour of the draft conclusion on the author's return to work. I would very much ask the author to add to the writing of this bill of experts, today there is a real possibility to write such rules of law so that, in fact, Ukrainian forests can be protected. Our faction supports the restoration of the forests of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, for reasons of interest, are they willing to speak? Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u144	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, what are forests? The forests are our lungs through which the Ukrainian generation breathes, and we have to think that we're going to leave a legacy to future generations. Today you come to Luhanščina – Mirna Dolina, Bilovodščina, Cello Lugansk Region – the forests are cut in the middle of the first: they are on the ground, and they are not inside. How many times has it been possible to go to forestry to appoint someone in charge of the forests in Luhansk! For almost three years. Assigned. How long can we turn? 20,000 acres [20,000 ha] of earth, which is now polluted and ecologically damaged, does not come out of the burning forest. Green jewels ride at night. The forest is being smuggled. Who will be responsible for killing the entire forests of Ukraine today? So once again, I'm saying we're going to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u145	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. The word is given to Deputy Minister Rybczyn Aleksija Mikhajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u146	The Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection, supporting certain norms of the bill, believes that the bill needs to be finalized, because the amendments to the Forest Code cannot really be regulated by the introduction of a moratorium on the removal of green plantings in green-favoured objects governed by the Ukrainian Law on the well-being of population centres. So we suggest that we get the author back to work. And we thank the distinguished National MP for his previous and current initiatives aimed at improving the environmental situation, and we suggest that we go to the Ministry to work together on the bills that will be introduced and not rejected by the Supreme Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if all the speakers have spoken, I suggest we proceed to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on a proposal by the committee to return the subject to the legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending the Code of Forests for Ukraine to establish a moratorium on the complete cutting-off of forests and green plantings. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? First of all, National Deputy Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. We agreed yesterday that we would first vote on the committee's proposal. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:05:33]] For 238. Decision taken. The bill has been returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of additional forest conservation guarantees (registration number 2173). It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:06:16]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the reporter is the national deputy of Ukraine Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. But there is a reference: "In view of my absence from the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Disease, I ask you to consider the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to establish additional guarantees for forest conservation (registration number 2173) without my participation. Irina Lucenko." So let's go straight to the report of the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Environmental Use of the Jury's Ovarian Yulia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u148	Good day again, dear fellows! We continue the subject of forests. The committee considered Bill 2173, introduced by National Deputy Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Three main points should also be noted. First, the committee shares legislative initiatives on this subject. However, according to the Ukrainian Environmental Impact Assessment Act, a list of activities are subject to environmental impact assessment. However, the environmental impact assessment does not provide for such planned activity as a change in the target destination of forest areas. So it's important that any changes are included in this project. Secondly, I'd like to mention a few words about "trojan horses." There are two of them in this bill. The first "trojan horse" is article 57 of the Ukrainian Forest Codex, part two. In fact, the change in target areas is directed only at the expense of shrubs, as well as low - cost forests. This bill introduces the term "low-density forest plantings." Anything can be attributed under this term. Any dishonest entrepreneur does that where the density of forest plantings from 0.3-0.4, that is, becomes low, deforestates forests and changes the target destination of forest areas. The second "trojan horse" is a change in the second and third parts of the same article 57 of the Forest Code. Dear colleagues, note that according to the areas of these forest plantings, there may be production of useful fossils, construction of oil wells, disposal of harmful substances, waste products, recreation sites, and diplomatic facilities. This bill is also not supported by the State and the committee is proposing that the bill be sent to the subject of the legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, does this bill need to be discussed? Yes. Then I ask you to sign up for factions: two for, two for, two for. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, deputy faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u150	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I don't understand how the Committee on Environmental Policy reads these bills. He is clear and clear to all: (a) If a target assignment is changing, this land that they want to build for something, to produce and so forth, the local council should provide a similar land for irrigation. That's the first one. The other one. The target costs for the loss of a forest assignment go directly to the plantation, it's like a special fund. All other points in articles 2 and 3 can be removed between the first and the second readings. And believe me, there's a ransom for social needs when you have to run electricity lines, pipelines and other things. We just have to look at what we need for social needs, because that's one rule that goes from one law to another. But what I'm going to say is that the problem with forests is that there is no government policy in Ukraine, there is no government policy. For 5 years, the agrarian committee was talking about dividing the function of the State Agency. Well, how can one structure do both cutting and controlling, sorry, using these forests and so forth? You have to divide the farm functions and the control functions. The other one. Colleagues, as if we were being complimented by foreign diplomats, investors and so on, well, understand that wood processing here leaves added value. You see, the amount that went abroad, the billion dollars, the billion dollars went directly across the border, and that's about 40 percent -- the forests that were cut out in a poaching way, they didn't get into Ukraine's budget. The absence of state policy, of a colleague, will give us the denunciation of our Ukrainian Carpathians.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u151	Fedia Sofia Romanovna, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u152	Fedina Sofia, European Solidarity. I give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u153	Princess Nikola Leonidovich, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u154	Fellow dignitaries, therefore, suggest that the issue of forest protection be resolved against destruction and the complexity of the process of altering the target destination of land occupied by forests. How is it suggested that this problem be resolved? First, the change in the target destination of areas occupied by forests is only allowed by agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers, and that is perfectly normal. Secondly, if a decision is to be taken to change the target, local authorities should provide forest-based areas for reforestation and provide adequate funding for the sources of which the bill is implemented and defined. Third, felling of trees in target areas is allowed only after planting has taken place in other areas. These restrictions will not be applied to social issues, which are clearly stated in the bill. According to the previous reporter, it is the construction of protective hydrotechnical facilities, the creation of urban parks, the construction or repair of transport infrastructures, and so forth. It's an extremely important bill. Yes, I agree with some comments made by the head of the subcommittee who said that there was a lack of clear terminology in this law. But we are absolutely convinced that this terminology can be corrected for the second reading. The European Solidarity faction will support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u155	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". And all those who wish to speak are already? Then we go to the vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u156	The country's distinguished national deputies, this is also a very important bill for the development of Ukraine's economy. You know, investors today have very big problems, especially those investors who are planning to go to Ukraine in the future to develop useful mines and other investment projects. Because today bureaucracy on these issues and some lack of reasoning, it is practically preventing Ukraine from investing additional funds in its economy. Well, for me, there are signs that are circumstantial when an office like Drakadastr says that it's against this bill, and then I'm standing with two hands behind it. So we need to be clear and clear about what we need to do with our respectable colleagues. We need to protect the Ukrainian forests today, and the second we need to protect the Ukrainian forests so that we don't harm them and that we don't diminish the investment attractiveness of Ukraine. That's why look closely at the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. This bill, unlike the previous one, can be adopted in the first reading, worked on second reading, and benefit in general both the forests of Ukraine and the citizens of Ukraine, and the investors of Ukraine. So I would suggest, and our faction of the Political Platform for Life will vote in favour of this bill. Today, it has all the potential to be further developed and to be positive and beneficial for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u157	Okay. Thank you. One more minute from the motive, the Ministry's representative. Rybchin Alexei Mikhailovich. And let's go to the vote. Please invite the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u158	The Ministry supports the establishment of additional guarantees for the conservation of the forests of Ukraine as the national wealth of our state, but there are several observations to the bill. We support the comments of the GNEU. We also propose that, in the course of further consideration of the bill, the words "creating urban parks, building preschool schools, rest areas, stadiums and cemeteries" should be excluded, since such infrastructure sites are selected during the preparation of general plans for population sites and should not be created at the expense of forests, which are at the same time part of the greening of the population. The other one. In the amendments to part two of article 57 of the Ukrainian Forest Code, we propose to delete the words “according to the environmental impact assessment”, since this is contrary to the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Impact, in accordance with part two and part three of article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Impact, a list of activities that are subject to environmental impact assessment is defined. However, an environmental impact assessment is not available to carry out such planned activities as changing the target destination of forest areas. So they're consistent with the decision of the environmental committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on a proposal by the committee to return the subject to the legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts on the establishment of additional forest conservation guarantees (registration number 2173). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:17:19]] For-286 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for the introduction of a ban on the total logging of tree and beech forests on the mountain slopes of the Carpathian region (registration No. 0873). It's a second reading. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Environmental Use of the Yulia Jurijovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, a transitional bill is proposed for your consideration, which is discussed in the second reading. The aim of this project is to improve measures for the protection of tree and beech forests on the mountain slopes of the Carpathian region from total deforestation, both with entrepreneurial and health objectives, where it is clearly stated that the entire sections of the tree and beech forests and the objectives for which they are carried out. Amendments to the two laws of Ukraine are proposed, namely, the Nature Command Fund and the Moratorium for the holding of solid edges on the mountain slopes of the forest of the Carpathian region. Thus, the committee worked on a second reading of a bill that took into account the comments. In preparation for the second reading of the bill, 25 proposals and amendments were made by Ukrainian national deputies. Of these, 16 are included, including part four, four and two are rejected. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council a draft law (registration number 0873) to be adopted on second reading and generally as a law with technical legal development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u161	Thank you. Let's move on to the right-hand side. Amendment 23, People's Deputy Lucenko. None. Amendment number 25, no either, National Deputy Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u162	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, all the other revisions were taken into account. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the prohibition of all logging forests on the mountain slopes of the Carpathian Region (registration No. 0873). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:20:16]] For 301 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 217, "Resistance Platform for Life" – 18, "European Solidarity" – 17, "Fatherhood" – 15, "For the Future" – 7, "Voice" – 17, "non-fractional" – 10. Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. But the request does not go away because all the adjustments are included here. You have been proposed a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Local Elections Act to regulate the decision-making procedure for the party to participate in the relevant local elections (registration number 0939). The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and Zagreb’s Alini Leonidivni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, national deputies, present! At the request of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on the Organization of State Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development considered, at its meeting on 16 October 2019, proposals that came from the bodies of the right to legislative initiative to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Elections to regulate the decision-making procedure for the party to participate in the relevant local elections (registration number 0939), submitted by the People's Deputies of Ukraine on the eighth call by Sergey Sobolev and others and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call on the basis of another 7 November 2017. A second reading of the bill from two Ukrainian national deputies included two suggestions that the committee proposes to take into account. The final draft of the bill proposed by the committee foresees that, in addition to the senior governing body of the political party, the decision on the participation of local party organisations in successive, repeated, intermediate, additional, first local elections, or all of their types, other than those of the parties, may be adopted by another governing body of the party. In fact, this will make it much easier for the political parties to exercise their constitutional right to participate in local elections, which to this day are exclusively dependent on the complex and cost-effective mechanism of holding assemblies and conferences of these parties. Also with a view to taking into account the specificities of the internal-organizational structures of different political parties, it is proposed that their regional or republican organizations, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which do not have regional, urban, district, local party organizations, should adopt the decision to issue appropriate electoral lists instead of such organizations. Following a general discussion of the matter, the Committee adopted a conclusion: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft Act amending the Law on Local Elections on the Regulation of the Procedure for the Approval of the Party's Decision on the Participation of its Local Organizations in the Relevant Local Elections for the Second reading, to be adopted in a second reading and as a whole. In addition, I think it is necessary to point out that the bill is not selective and applies equally to all parties without exception. In fact, the bill simplifies life to all political parties and unlocks their participation in individual forms of local elections. In the case of the adoption of the bill in second reading and in general, the Committee invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to entrust the committee with the preparation of the relevant law for signature to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u164	10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u165	To carry out its technical and legal work in conjunction with the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority. Colleagues, I ask you to support the committee's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the checks have been taken into account. Let's go to the vote, please prepare for the vote. I would like to place a motion for a committee on adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations for a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Elections to regulate the decision-making procedure of the party on the participation of its local organizations in the relevant local elections (registration No. 0939). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:25:17]] For 297 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Order on the Rename of the City of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki Kyiv region. It is suggested that we consider it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Something very amusing is probably happening there. It is suggested that this provision be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:26:05]] For 252 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of Bezgin Vitali Juriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u167	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We have a package of five names. The first concerns the city of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki. We were approached by the Kyiv District Council with a report on the change of the city of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki Kyiv region to the city of Preyaslav. The name of the city of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki is initiated by the City Council in order to return the historic name of Preyaslav to the city. The initiative was supported by the territorial community at public hearings, in accordance with the legislation of the Preyaslav-Hmelnicki district and the Kyiv district council. As a result of the consideration of the matter, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, that the city of Preyaslav-Hmielnicky Kyivsky Region should be renamed Preyaslav, by adopting an appropriate draft decision as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Discussion? Sign up for factions: two for, two against who wants to speak. Mikito Ruslanovich, maybe. Are you insisting on the performance? No, it's not. The Highlander Yuri Ivanovich? Nestor Ivanovich, out of the way. Out of the way, Nestor Ivanovich. We're not going to get a reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u169	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I and the factions of our faction have always come out of the principle that it is the local community and its representatives — the local authorities — that should determine what they should call the city where they live. But this may not be the case. We wondered who now made up the majority in the appropriate council. This is the People's Front and the Peter Dust Block. I think the question of initiating the renaming should already be determined by the next local council, not by the bankruptcy of the bankrupt parties. And if the predecessors today have a desire to renounce the Hmelnicki, tomorrow Gruszewski, then Kravczuk and so on. I believe that we must now abstain from this vote, and once the local elections are held, allow the newly elected local council to determine what they are called and, of course, to support. And today it looks more like speculation. And, you know, catch up on a saucer. That's why I'm asking you to abstain from voting right now. I formally understand that the committee has made a decision that I can't help but take, but it will still be our responsibility. Oh, and I mentioned Carthage, I promised. And Dusty in this room, among us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u170	Thank you. Are you insisting? Are you insisting, Nikita Ruslanovich? Maybe we shouldn't? Don't you insist? Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to. No, then all of them now. No, come on, come on. Vote. No, wait. Let's vote, colleagues. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption of the whole draft Order on the Renamement of the City of Preyaslav-Hmelnicky Kyiv Region (Registration No. 2175). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:30:43]] For 267 Decision taken. Show by factions. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Here too will be the renaming decrees. The request is not to be dispersed. You have been invited to make a proposal for a decision to rename the village of the Isle of Manevicki district of Volinsk (registration number 2176). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. Dear colleagues, a little quieter in the hall, please. [[13:31:26]] For 253 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of Bezgin Vitali Juriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, we have been approached by the Volin District Council to report on the change of the village of the Isle of Manevicki district of Volin County to the village of the island. The name of the village has been initiated by its inhabitants in connection with the need to remove differences in the use of the name of this inhabited area. The question of the name of the village of Ostrovka was supported by the territorial community in the general assembly of citizens, agreed according to the legislation of the Rudnik Rural, Manevicko District, and Volin County Councils. As a result of the Committee's consideration of the issue, it agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, that the village of Volinska Region should be renamed the village of Volin Region to the village of the island by adopting an appropriate draft regulation as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u172	Thank you. Is there a need for discussion? No, it's not. Then let's go to the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the whole draft Order on the Renamement of the Village of the Isle of Manevicki district of Volinsk. (Registration No. 2176) Please support and vote. [[13:32:59]] For 288 Decision taken. Next question. Draft Decision on the name of the village of Raka Nemiriv district of Vinnitsk district. Fingers, I'm sorry. There's no emphasis here, so. Let's move on to the question. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:33:58]] For 249 Thank you. To – 249. I understand that Vlasenko offered for the full. I think it'll be possible for the National Deputy Vlasenko to be held separately. And Shufrich insists on a full procedure. You have a colleague, I think you can continue the meeting. Would you please tell the committee to report? And we can go to the vote. Committee, position. Discussing?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u173	We were approached by the Winnitsk obelisk on the question of the name of the village of Račka Nemiriv district of Vinnitsk district to the village of Podilsk. The renaming is initiated by the locals. As a result of the consideration of the matter, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with section 29 of the first article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, that the village of Raka Nemiriv Region of Vinnitsk Region should be renamed to the village of Podilsk, by adopting an appropriate draft decision as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u174	I propose to proceed to the vote. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich insists on the discussion. I think two minutes, ladies, and we're going to vote. Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich in connection with the renaming of the village of Račka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u175	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, this is a classic case of the previous turboreactive decommunization regime. Without asking the inhabitants of this famous already well - known area of Rakka, Ukraine, that was Kirovo, but they were in such a hurry to rename that they did not ask people. So I want to draw your attention to the fact that similar decisions have to be based on the sighting of the locals, and then we don't have such cases that for about two years we're going to rename the locations twice. I would still like to have respect for people who live in the right areas. And I want to give you another interesting example. We have information from residents of the area of Ravenna, Excuse me, the Vinnitsk region, Komsomolska, who was renamed the Negativka. Well, I'm like Nestor Ivanovich, I can't be against that name, but it would be interesting to know that people are "for" or "against". And this renaming needs to be supported right now. But in the next instance, we should not allow such disrespect to the inhabitants of the settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u176	Arthur Volodymyrovich, a minute of motive. Gerasimov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity" will support this by voting. But I wanted to make a point that was not mentioned by colleagues who were just speaking. The population of this population fully supports the decommunization that took place in the country. And I would like to say that we have always supported and supported this decision. Because the community is the starting point for making such decisions. And without the approval of the community, without approval in the area, without approval in the area, such decisions do not reach the Supreme Council. So decommunization was a two-pronged process. And we just have to keep it going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u178	Thank you. I am pleased that some national deputies have been able to communicate with all the inhabitants of this inhabited area and to gather fully reliable information about their position. And that's really good. Can we get to the vote? Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the whole draft Order on the Rename of the Village of Raka Nemiriv district of Winnicki district (registration number 2177). Please support and vote. [[13:38:41]] For-300 Constitutional majority. Hello. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the following question is the draft Order on the Rename of the village of Birka in the Sokal district of Lviv district (registration number 2310). Reports by Bezgin Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u179	The Lviv District Council addressed the Supreme Council with an indication of the change of the village of Birka in the Sokal district of Lviv to the village of Borok. The question of the name of the village of Birka Sokal district was supported by the territorial community in the general assembly of citizens, agreed according to the legislation, reviewed and approved by the Tartakiv Rural, Sokal District, and Lviv District Councils. As a result of the consideration of the matter, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, part one, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, that the village of Birka in the district of Lviv Region should be renamed the village of Borok, by adopting an appropriate draft decision as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there willing to speak? It's a motive. Yeah? Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, a minute of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u181	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. I am a resident of the district of Sokal, and I traveled to my grandmother’s place all the time. And I'm going to say that the residents called this village Borov all the time, not Birke. So I'm asking my colleagues to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let us proceed to the vote by putting to the vote a motion for adoption in the entire draft Order on the Rename of the village of Birka in the Sokal district of Lviv. (Registration No. 2310). Sokal district. Then I have a request for a committee: In the future, when you're preparing a submission, you put emphasis on the names of the locations. Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please support and vote. [[13:41:06]] For 293 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question, you have a proposal for a decision to rename the village of Mazarn-Karanska Kamyanka-Buzki district of Lviv. Again, I would like to stress the request to the committee that we do not offend people so that no one will be offended that we somehow do not call the population point, to stress. — Registration No. 2311. Reports by Bezgin Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u183	We were approached by the Lviv District Council to submit a change of name to the village of Mazarna-Karanska Kamyanka-Buzka district of Lviv region to the village of Mazjarna-Karanska. The name of the village has been initiated by its inhabitants in view of the need to return the historical name and to remove the difference in the use of the name of this localized site and according to official accounting. The issue of renaming is supported by the territorial community in general congregations, agreed according to legislation, reviewed and approved by the respective rural, circuit, and Lviv district councils. As a result of the discussion, the Committee adopted the conclusion: recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, that the village of Mazarna-Karanska Kamyanka-Buzka Region of Lviv Region be renamed the village of Mazjarna-Karanska be renamed as a whole, by adopting the relevant draft decision, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u184	Thank you. Let's not discuss it unless you insist. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the whole draft Order on the Rename of the Village of Mazarna-Karanska Kamyanka-Buzka District of Lviv Region (Registration No. 2311). Please support and vote. [[13:43:08]] For 287 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, one announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, there is an announcement. The establishment of a parliamentary group of friendships with Switzerland, with the Swiss Confederation, will take place at 2 p.m. in the third - floor towers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-30-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I welcome you, the order of our morning session is exhausted. So I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you all. I'll remind you that tomorrow we'll start our work at 10 a.m.
