ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, I just want to remind you of one thing, then we'll do it again tonight with Dmitri Alexanderovich, but it's very important information. As of tomorrow, the law we passed with you on the registration of national deputies has entered into force. We're giving up the paper registration, and from tomorrow, the registration will be done by inserting the card and pressing the pros button. And only then will we have the real number of persons in the hall. I'm going to ask you to think about it tomorrow and, first of all, come on time for all of us to register and see, eventually, real numbers on the board, how many people in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u2	Good evening, dear fellows! Let's get to work. Good evening, reverend media, distinguished guests! What school is this? What about the city? Well, we welcome you. [[Applause]] Let's get to work. Please prepare for registration. Sergey Volodymyrovich, are you not pleased to welcome the children? You're just under the balcony, they can't see you if you can get out, and they'll be happy to see you too. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're the other way around. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please register. [[16:09:29]] There are 377 people's deputies in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. The word for intervention is given by procedure. Yes, of course. No, wait, I'm going to give Jaremenko Bogdan Vasilovich a word. A member of parliament spoke.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u3	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I will take advantage of my right of reply, since I have been mentioned several times in this rostrum today. First of all, I'd like to start with an apology, an apology for those to whom I've created awkward and uncomfortable situations in the last few days. Of course, first of all, this is my family, they didn't deserve it. My wife is the only person in my life who knows everything about me has no claim to me, just because she knows everything. They have others. I want to apologize to my faction and to the President, you've become hostages of the situation, you don't deserve to be trampled into the mud with me. I'm sorry, guys, I'll take it quietly and gratefully any decision you make on my issue. Thank you. I want to apologize, I want to apologize to my constituents too, and you don't deserve to see it either. If my wife doesn't have a claim on me, who has a claim? Claims are made by moralists. So, dear friends, if you want to talk about morality and the law, let's do it. There is a law in this country that protects my and each of you from personal correspondence. The publication of correspondence is a criminal offence. And whoever did it from there made three to seven years. I'm not threatening, I'm just reminding you of the law and morals that are for all of us. If you want to talk about morality, of course, stealing is bad. My letter was stolen, but it was worse to use it stolen, to resell it. And those who suck, laugh, read stolen paintings, use stolen pictures, you know, resell them. So, colleagues, I'd like to talk about morality, but I don't see who, and that, I think, understands even the cock of Refreshment. And last of all, foreign policy. Guys, don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u4	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u5	You don't have to worry about foreign policy, you have to know, understand, deal with it, you don't have to do it every step of the way, first. Others do not need to go to Moscow and give up their national interests. And everything with foreign policy will be fine. Therefore I apologize to all who have earned them, and I ask you not to judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, one minute out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u7	Thank you. Honorable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and distinguished colleagues! Mr. Ruslan was really right, from tomorrow we're going to change the way we register. On behalf of the Ukrainian National Deputies, who are present in the Chamber and who have already left their post, I am absolutely convinced that from all of us, I would like to thank the members of the Information and Advisory Department of the Plenary Meetings, namely: Ms. Irina, Ludmila Mikhailna, Oksana Alexandrovna, Irina Gabrielna, Lydia Antonovna, who recently retired, and, of course, Chief Eugenia Viktorovich, for helping us organize our work. I think they deserve our thanks and our applause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u8	Thank you. Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! I'm going to make some changes, I'm going to propose changes to the agenda, and then we're going to go back to the applications. Okay? Dear colleagues, during my break I had the opportunity to make some suggestions on changing the agenda at our evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We're a little off schedule, and we have some important laws that we have today. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, thank you. We had it. There are some important bills to be considered in the second reading. I will now propose a change to the order of the day of our meeting. And I'm asking you to support them. First, we will consider two regulations: 2344 and 2312. Then we turn to daytime issues related to second reading: 1031, 2239-1, 2283, 1152-1, 2161, 0942, 0945, 0953. And then we go back to question 2179, and then we go back to the questions that we're going to have until we're out of time for our evening session. Please tell me, is there a objection? None. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:16:49]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank you. Show me the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 198, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 18, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 0, "For the Future" – 2, "The Voice" – 3, "the Non-Factional" – 10. Let's go. I can't hear you, dear fellows. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. A statement came from two factions replacing the break for the performance. Jonah’s Maria Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, thank you for your word. In fact, the former, the very first speaker, at the beginning of our session, shocked me with the words that there is not to talk about morality in this room. But I would like to remind you that in this room there are representatives of the Ukrainian people, of the Ukrainian society. And that's why we shouldn't embarrass our voters like that. And to be honest, there are still such public standards of social morality. And I'm a member. Member of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Relations. I would like to point out that you are a person who is the head of the committee and who ignores legislation in his working time and has such a low moral compass and treats the institution of parliamentaryism with such disrespect, you cannot represent the Ukrainian Parliament in the international arena. Because there are standards in the world. There are standards of ethics for a professional diplomat in the world. And you, as a professional diplomat who recommended yourself in this way, should be given a mandate as head of the committee. And I'm not talking about putting together a mandate as a national deputy. Because in a European country, that is what they would do the next day. I would like to say that you are undermining the authority of the Supreme Council itself as the only legislative body in Ukraine. And we appeal to you, Your Honourable Mr. Head of Parliament, to use your authority to address this issue with dignity. I would like to say that the IFF "Equal Opportunities" where there are co-heads also of all factions other than the IFFW signed a letter of appeal and a call to resolve this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u10	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Ordinance on the Liberation of Members of the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Broadcasting. — Registration No. 2344. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:20:26]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, to report on this matter will be me. If you don't mind, I'll answer from the rostrum. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 85, paragraph 20, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints and relieves half of the membership of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. According to part three of article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the National Council for Television and Broadcasting, the mandate of a member of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio talk starts with the date of his appointment and lasts for 5 years, except for cases provided for by legislation. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, are we bothering you? No, it's not. Why don't you report it? Thank you. In accordance with article 208, 210 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the release from office of a member of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio should take place at the written request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the decision of the Committee, which includes the issue of radio broadcasting. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Humanities and Information Policy asked me to submit an appropriate draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the discharge of members of the National Council of Ukraine on the issue of television and radio broadcasting, Gerasimük, Ilyashenko, Chernish, appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in connection with the conclusion of the five - year term for their credentials. Accordingly, I now give the floor to a report to the head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Tkachenka Alexander Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, we have every reason to hold this vote today. The term of the members of the National Council, I remind you, is the body responsible. In fact, the radio area in Ukraine, it's out of control. By decree, we must vote for their release. But I would like to point out that their powers continue until we hold an appropriate competition that will last for two months and when we don't select new members of the National Council for ratings, that's four men, actually, from the Supreme Council. Right after the adoption of the amendments to the law, we have every reason to fulfill our obligation. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u13	Thank you, Alexander Vladislavovich. Dear colleagues, does this matter need to be discussed? Two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u14	I'd like to give it to Bujanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u15	Who? To Bujani Maxim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u16	The honourable colleagues, the honorable presidency, this Nacratha, which we are planning to resign, has been marked by the most disgraceful behavior in her years of work: she did not serve as a regulator, she worked as a dog on a chain with the former President of Ukraine, Petar Alexiyovich, who put her on her political opponents. So I think that we should send it to non-existence as soon as possible and choose a new Nakrad that will perform its functions conscientiously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u17	Thank you, Maxim Arkadyovich. The word is given by Sobolje's Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, I think everyone understands perfectly that the National Council can act in conditions where it is absolutely clear, transparent and understandable legislation. I think this is a key duty for Parliament, and no one but us can change the laws. So the most important thing is to draw conclusions from situations where any decision that a regulator can make can be approved, not on the basis of law, but on the basis of a personal attitude, on the basis of political, ideological or any decision. That's why I think that the period when these members of the National Board worked, the regulator that defines the most difficult issues, remains that period in history. I think we need to look to the future. For us as parliamentarians, what is the security of the state, including information security, should be decisive; what is a violation of moral, ethical norms. And I think without these definitions, whoever we're still assigned to this body, there will be more questions than answers to these questions. So I think that the profiling committee needs to immediately review the legislative regulation in this area in order to determine the key parameters for those regulators that are currently working and that will be selected in the near future. We'll vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u19	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u20	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. We're too late for this question for three plenary weeks. And those decisions that have been made in that term, otherwise, like pressure on freedom of speech, counting, you can't call them. Today we have to carry out this constitutional duty and evaluate that council that we have left over from our previous era of corruption, abuse, thievery, and opposition pressure. The main thing is the right to speak the truth and to provide information. You know, I can't be indifferent to our speech, I hope for the time being, a colleague who has banned and demanded me to renounce my constitutional right as a citizen and a national deputy of Ukraine, to fight for the liberation of our citizens. And if necessary, even in Moscow. If at least one of our boys was able to return because my friends were in Moscow, this is already the victory of individual families and Ukraine as a whole. And you know, it's better to go after the boys and find peace in Moscow than a knife. Oh, shit, no words! And you don't have to lie to journalists once, then try to get away with it all over the Supreme Council. I did-- answer me if you're a man.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u21	Thank you. Princess Mikola Leonidovich. Dear colleagues, everyone who wishes, I understand, has spoken. Then we go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u22	I would like to thank Olga Gerasimük, Alexander Ilyashenko and Oleg Chernysh for the work they did at the National Council on Television and Radio. And this advice, indeed, of all of the previous ones, was striking. Thank you. You've done a lot of good, though you haven't done much. And now I want to address all of you. To you, Mr. Dmitre, for you have reported this to Mr. Stefanchuk, a respected public relations expert, a media expert, Ms. Helena Kondratuk, and to look at this determination. Take a closer look. This ruling takes effect from the date of the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as members of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. So not now when we vote, but when new members are appointed. And the National Council for Television and Broadcasting Act gives us the right to announce the appointment of these members three days after the previous members' mandate has ended. So I'm holding in my hands right now the complete absurdity that probably carries some good thoughts and thoughts, I'm not even against them. But I'm against compromising the Ukrainian state with these pseudo-legislative projects that are written by people who are not about the legal approach, but about the normal logic they have no idea about. Because every contest that we assign will then be declared illegal as may not be recognized by the illegal decisions that the new National Council will make. It's just a circus, some, on the wire, an honest word! Although the authors may have thought, they were good. Thank you. We'll hold out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u23	Thank you. Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u24	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I fully agree with colleagues who said that the Nakrad should not be a political body but should be a professional body. These include decisions that should be legally literate, just as the National Deputy of the Prince spoke about it. That's why I have a proposal, Your Honorable Dmitri Alexanderovich, for the next character. In this provision, it should be stated as follows that the ruling takes effect from the time it is signed by the Head of the Supreme Council. But members of the NACRADA continue to carry out their responsibilities for the contest and appointment of new members of the NACRADA on television, radio. This is going to be legally literate, and so we're not going to block the Nacrada's work, and we're going to be able to run a vacancy contest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u25	I give my word to the committee head again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this Parliament has adopted a law that regulates this conflict a few weeks ago: members of the National Council, who have been elected for a term of five years, continue to carry out their obligations (and this is a rule of law, not a decision) until the election of the new members of the National Council. There's no problem. If we want to change the National Council, we need to vote and announce the competition for two months.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u27	Does that fit the law? [[B in m in s a l in]] From Krulko’s motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u28	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. All right, we've changed the law, and the law states that the members of the Nakrad are fulfilling their responsibilities to elect new members of the Nakrad. At the same time, however, the ruling requires the same formulation that the ruling takes effect not as soon as the new members of the Nacrada are elected, as it is now written in the draft, but the decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted, and the members of the Nacrada on television and radio talk continue to carry out their duties to elect the new members of the Nacrada after the corresponding competition. Here's what we're talking about. This formulation will be correct and will allow the contest to be held and the new members of the Nakrad. This is the wording I am asking for to vote on this ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u29	Thank you. We've already had the debate. But the word Tsakchenk, give me a minute of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u30	This decree states: "After the termination of the terms of office, members of the National Council continue to serve until the date of appointment of the new member of the National Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." What's the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u31	One minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, for a minute, colleagues will offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Alexander Vladislavovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, five-minute recess. Please come, Mikola Leonidovich, and, Ivan Ivanovich, please come. Don't go away, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u32	You see, not only do we have a turbine, but we also have a break: instead of five minutes, we have five seconds. Let's get back to work. Dear colleagues, let's get back to work! Ivanovich Krulko! Ivanovich! Ivanovich! Alexander Vladislavovich, please read out the ruling taking into account John Ivanovich Krulk’s appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u33	The decree takes effect, not since the appointment of the Supreme Council, but since the adoption of this decree. And then, according to the law, we can accept. [[B in m in s a l in]] The decree takes effect, not from the time of the appointment of the Supreme Council to vacant posts, but from the time of its adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take this into account in the transcript, which has just been called by the head of the committee. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account an amendment that has just been issued by the head of the committee under the transcription, the draft Ordinance on the Liberation of Members of the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting (Registration No. 2344). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:39:57]] For 313 Decision taken. Thank you. Show by factions. The People's Servant Party – 225, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 23, "European Solidarity" – 21, "The Fatherhood" – 12, "For the Future" – 12, "The Voice" – 0, non-fractional – 20. Thank you again. Decision taken. Honorable colleagues, and next time, study the matter more carefully. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been proposed a draft Decision on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of fires (explosions) at munitions depots in the city of Ichnya, Kalinivka, Balaklia, Svatov, Curve Rig from 2014 to 2018. Should we vote in favour of a reduced procedure? You're going to have to look at the short notice, aren't you? Please support the proposal and consider this with a reduced procedure. [[16:41:13]] For 252 Decision taken. The report is given to David Georgiyovich, a national deputy of the Ukraine of Arahamaiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, the draft Decree 2312 of 25.10.2019 on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of fires and explosions at ammunition depots in the cities of Ichin, Kalinivka, Balaklia, Svatov and Krivý Rig between 2014 and 2018 is proposed. Well, it's very simple here. Everyone knows we've had this issue right now in these years and how important it is. But four years went by, almost five years went by, and there was no explanation at all what happened: Whether it was a diversion, whether it was a terrorist act, whether it was intentional arson, no one knows. And there is, more than that, information that people who were directly responsible for the preservation and avoidance of these processes received promotions from the service, which can't be explained at all, except that it's treason to the state or official negligence. This question needs to be studied very carefully. So we decided to put together a temporary commission of inquiry where all the members of all the factions entered without exception where they entered, and I propose to you: I am the head of the political faction of "Serve of the People", the deputy national deputy of Rahmanin Sergey Ivanovich of the political party "Golos". And you all have texts. We have the only submission to me that from the faction "European Solidarity" instead of Bondar add Zabrodski Mikhail Vitaliovich, who is a member of our Committee on Security and Defence. Please support and vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u36	Thank you, David Georgievich. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u37	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The regulatory committee at its meeting yesterday reviewed the draft of the Order (registration 2312) and confirmed the conclusion. In conclusion, the committee noted that according to paragraph 2 of the draft regulation, the initiator defined the main tasks of the commission, such as carrying out a review of the investigation by the law enforcement authorities. In connection with this initiation, the Constitutional Court’s position in its decision of 11 April 2000 on noninterference with the prosecutor’s office, such as the Supreme Council and its organs, should be taken into account. With regard to the right of a temporary commission to initiate the involvement of guilty persons in responsibility, the committee noted that the principles of civil liability, acts of crime, are defined solely by laws. At the same time, the Supreme Council, when considering the conclusions of the interim commission’s proposals, decides, if necessary, on the matter of sending the materials to the interim commission for study and appropriate response. According to proposals made by all factions, the personal composition must be made up of 12 members representing all factions, except for the "For the Future" MP group. But just as I understand it, the chairman of this committee said there would be a replacement. Therefore, for the transcript, it is obvious that the commission must then be composed: the head of the commission is Arachami; the deputy head of the commission is Rachmanin; the members of the provisional commission: Bezgle, Berezin, Venislavski, Vereszuk, Gerasimenko, Zawidnevich, Zdebski, Fatherschina – Nastavajchenko, "platforma – For Life" – Burmese and "Solidarity" instead of Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u38	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u39	From Solidarity instead. Who in place of Bondar? [[B in m in s a l in]] Zabrodsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u40	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u41	This is the personal composition of the temporary commission. The committee therefore decided to recommend to Parliament that it consider the bill, accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u42	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, does this matter need to be discussed? Please sign up: two in, two in, against, from factions wishing to speak. Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u43	Please pass the word to Sergey Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u44	Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, I am opposed to us being abused by temporary investigators, because we will soon have more commissions than the number of deputies in the hall. But I support the creation of this commission for the simple reason that it is desirable to put an end to all the speculations, rumors and other flattery that have been going on around these events for five years. This is the first time. And secondly, so that we can finally have information that can be a reliable way to prevent this from happening any further. I'm against it being a punitive organ, and against it being just another TSC that's going to plough. I really want this to be an effective commission. I hope my colleagues will support it, and everyone who joins this committee will work for us to finally have security and defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u46	Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u47	Nadajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. We support, we will necessarily work on this temporary commission of inquiry. I now announce to the whole country that the government is already preparing lists of Ukrainian citizens who were affected by the bombings on military arsenals, and they were far from 5 as mentioned in this decree, but more than 7. First. The other one. We prepared and compiled lists of victims all over Ukraine, property compensation, treatment of children and adults who have suffered either damage or other loss of such explosions. And the third. Similarly, we will prepare and require the government to prepare for the compensation of the military arsenal and parts of the military, and the military personnel affected by these terrible explosions. And most of all. The "Fatherland" faction addresses you all, Your Honorary colleagues: the time has come to pass the law on special inquiry committees of Parliament, enough to work temporarily and superficially. Parliament should have the right not only to investigate, but also to adopt decisions to remedy the shortcomings, to compensate the citizens of Ukraine, and in the future, the executive branch, the law enforcement authorities and the defence authorities must comply with the laws that we are approving with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u48	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u49	Herasimov Arthur, European Solidarity Party. Please pass the word to Michael Zabrodsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u50	I'm sorry again. Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, first of all, we all know, and we all remember very well what a profound, negative social resonance has had on the bases, warehouses and arsenals, especially in the last three, four, five years. I am no longer talking about the direct military damage that has been done to the defence of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the first place, as well as other components of the security and defence sector. For no one is the secret that as a result of these events we have lost certain designations and nomenclatures of ammunition, which primarily refer to the categories of so-called deficits and which are already creating new challenges both before our industry and before the relevant supply authorities. But I would like to take this opportunity to remind future colleagues of the interim commission of inquiry that, unfortunately today, the situation on the same Bogdanians and Catherines has not improved significantly. And one of the questions that I propose to try to find the answer to the commission: Why does it happen that on the same arsenals where there have been tragic events, including the loss of lives, not to mention direct material loss, the situation does not change significantly, nor does it change for more than a month, but almost a year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u52	Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u53	Honourable Dmitry Alexanderovich, taking into account the importance of creating such a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate the activities of the Ministry of Defence and the repeated fires and explosions at stockpiles of ammunition that have already become an illustration in the tongues of the people. I'm asking you to consider the position of the MP group for the future. This question is agreed with the future head of the TSC, David Georgiyovitch Arahami, so that there is an appropriate proportional representation of all the MPs and groups. And to include, according to the commission of the deputy of the Supreme Council of Jurichin Petr Vasilovich, who represents one of the constituencies where these explosions took place. Under the stenogram, please read his name and include it. Jurchisin Petr Vasilovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u54	Taras Ivanovich, with all due respect, but we don't make any amendments out of the voice. I say again, we're not editing. Let it pass. I understand you agreed. But there was a committee meeting where there was a list of people. Let the committee pass, let's add a person, it's not a problem. Dear colleagues, it's been a while. I was introducing the committee's head now, changes to the committee's ruling, to the committee's decision, I'm sorry. Let's do it this way. Come on. Where is the head of the interim commission of inquiry? Arahami. David Georgiyovich, I have a request to speak with the MP's group "Towards the Future" so that, through the committee, another person can be added to the interim commission of inquiry. That's not gonna happen right now. Taras Ivanovich, through the committee, will be added. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u55	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, forerunners reported that in the city of Happiness and Svatov, in the city of Svatov, when the explosions occurred, all the consequences were eliminated. I mean, it's all lies and propaganda. Two thousand homes that have been damaged are such, without windows, and without roofs. And I'm asking the committee to add a new set of papers to get people from Luhanskian: Sergey the Great, Alexander Lukashev of that district, and to check the removal of the effects in that area. And officials responsible for removing the consequences of the explosions at these warehouses should also be responsible, not only for military personnel who have not been punished in five years. Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u56	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, all who have spoken, please prepare for the vote. This is an important question, so please prepare yourself. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the basis and in general the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Fires (Explosions) at Ammunition Stocks in the city of Ichnya, Kalinivka, Balaklia, Svatov, Curve Rig from 2014 to 2018 (registration No. 2312). Please support and vote. [[16:56:00]] For 339 239 — yes. 339 – yes. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 231, "Resistance Platform for Life" – 16, "European Solidarity" – 23, "Fatherhood" – 18, "For the Future" – 15, "Voice" – 13, "non-factional" – 23. Decision taken. I thank you all for your position. Dear colleagues, we turn to the following issue of the agenda: the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the confiscation of illegal assets of persons authorized to perform functions of state or local self-government and the penalties for obtaining such assets (registration number 1031) (second reading). Reports the head of the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy of the Krasnosil Anastasia Olegovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u57	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Anti-Corruption Policy Committee has considered Bill (No. 1031) on criminal responsibility for illicit enrichment and so-called civil confiscation of unwarranted officials' assets, and invites the Supreme Council to adopt this bill on second reading and as a whole. You know, colleagues, no one outside this room needs to explain why this bill is needed. It is clear to all ordinary people that when a judge or prosecutor lives in a five-story house with a tennis court and two swimming pools, and this house is registered to his pensioner's mother who paid 10,000 taxes for her life, it is clear that this situation is abnormal and is an indicator of the illegal corrupt assets of such a judge or prosecutor. Accordingly, colleagues, I strongly urge the national MPs not to manipulate, not to lie, not to try to explain that this situation is normal for some reason, but to show society that we are ready to fight against the illegal enrichment of officials. What this bill proposes for a second reading. The responsibility for illicit wealth is proposed if the assets acquired by officials exceed the legal income of more than 6.5 million dollars. A civil confiscation mechanism is proposed if the employee’s questionable income is more expensive. It costs more than his legal income, starting with 1 million dollars. These two mechanisms will work together, and according to the biggest thefts will be criminal responsibility, less civilian confiscation. I want to point out, colleagues, that the civil confiscation mechanism provides for a court decision, predicts that the prosecutor's office should collect evidence to go to court, and only if the court agrees with the evidence, will there be a civil confiscation. The Civil Seizure Mechanism, colleagues, it's a civilized European practice, it's a practice that works in the United States, in Canada, you can continue this list, quite successfully, it's a recognized mechanism to fight corruption. I also ask, colleagues, not to manipulate or say that this bill violates the rights of third parties, this is not happening, colleagues. Before the second reading, colleagues, the committee proposed a formula that allows for balancing, on the one hand, the protection of the rights of third parties, on the other, the need to punish officials with illegal property. And finally, colleagues, this tool -- both civil confiscation and criminal responsibility -- will only be available to the anti-corruption bureau, the anti-corruption prosecutor's office and the anti-corruption court. No abuse of other unreformed law enforcement agencies is and cannot be. With this said, colleagues, please support this bill in second reading and in general, taking into account the necessary technical legal rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to law enforcement. Amendment number one, Dubnevich. No. 2, Vlasenko. You insist, Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u59	Thank you, Mr. Head. When it comes to 1 revision, it's a good joke. But, you know, I'd like us to move from cosmopolitan slogans to a real professional evaluation of what we're offered to accept in the second reading. In this bill, the question is. on corruption – the question is clear to all: Of course, corrupt people have to be held accountable. But we did have this bill, they were there on the first reading and they continue to appear, every third person. And here we have a question: Who are these third parties, as their guilt proves, how do they listen to matters for their participation, or without their participation? At the same time, I want to say that the third person is really every citizen of Ukraine can be recognized as the third person, based on the wording that we're offered. And 2 of the law deals with another question: from what point do we release an official who has a judicial decision to obtain an unlawful advantage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u60	Thank you. Are you insisting on your papers, Sergei? Should we put her to the vote? Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputies of Vlasenko. Please identify and vote. [[17:02:00]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 3. Alekseus. Amendment number 4. Puzanov. Alekseus.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, this applies to article 368 with the badge 2 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The point is that this article was declared unconstitutional. We are now introducing a new bill, 1031, to which we are making a new rule on illicit enrichment. This is a technical and unconstitutional issue that simply needs to be removed from the Criminal Code. Now we're going to adopt a new norm, and it's going to be there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u62	Please tell me, are you insisting on your right? Are you going to insist on what you're going to do next? I'm betting on the vote number 3 of the People's Deputies of Alekseiv. Please identify and vote. [[17:03:10]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 4. Puzanov. Amendment number 5. Vlasenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u63	Thank you, Mr. Head. I, with your permission, will now quote the United Nations Convention against Corruption, as it defines "illegal enrichment". "In compliance with its Constitution, article 20 of this Convention, and the fundamental principles of its legal system, each State Party shall consider the possibility of using such legislative and other measures as may be necessary to determine criminal intentional illicit wealth, i.e. a significant increase in the assets of the State and the official who exceeds its legitimate income, and which it cannot reasonably justify." This is the terminology of the UN Convention that Ukraine ratified, and I quoted it from the "Reports of the Supreme Council of Ukraine", number 49 since 2007. We are offered an entirely different definition of illicit wealth, including an unlimited number of individuals — all Ukrainian citizens — potentially in such illegal wealth.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u64	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 5 of the national MP Vlasenka. Please identify and vote. [[17:04:51]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Edit number 9, Lašhenko. Nope. Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u65	Honourable Dmitry Aleksandrovich, in accordance with article 120, part three, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the rights of Ukrainian national deputies, please place on confirmation number six, number seven, number 8, number nine, and number 10 for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, I will now give my word to the head of the committee. Anastasia Olegovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u67	Colleagues, the amendments just called by the committee, are edited, and they apply to the threshold of criminal responsibility for illicit wealth. This was a compromise decision that took into account the amendments proposed by national deputies from various political parties. So I'm asking you very much not to manipulate or try to knock it down in the hall right now, because that's how you balance the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u68	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u69	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, first of all, I draw the attention of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensuring that the reporter somehow adheres to the Rules and acts, and I have done so in accordance with the Rules. If the Ukrainian national MP, his constitutional right, requires confirmation, then the amendments to the list, which the national deputy Batenko called Batenko, should be placed in turn for confirmation of the vote. I'm asking you to comply with the Rules. Otherwise, this law cannot be considered to have been adopted in compliance with the rules of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, I'm about to place several warrants to confirm Taras Ivanovich Batenka's request. Under the Rules, the amendments will be voted on in the same order as you spoke about. Also, if you could, please give me an update. Turn on the microphone for Taras Ivanovich Batenka. And, ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u71	Dmitri Aleksandrovich, thank you for the proper conduct of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in compliance with the Supreme Council Rules, in accordance with article 120, part three.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u72	You're not being heard, Taras Ivanovich. If you don't mind, it's in the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u73	Please place number 6, number 7, number 8, number 9, and number 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u74	Amendment number nine has already been voted on. This amendment wasn't voted out, but it wasn't your amendment, it was rejected by the committee. So it's Laishenko's readjustment, it's rejected, it's 9 lashes. You can't apply for confirmation if it's been rejected by the committee, number nine. Please turn on the Bat microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u75	Dmitri Alexanderovich, it doesn't matter if it's my turn or not my turn. Please place on confirmation the rights of the national MPs, whose numbers I have called number 6, number 7, number 8, and number 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, as far as I can remember the Rules, I may be wrong to place an order that has been taken into account for confirmation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Nine, nine. 10 is good, no, you just said "and 9". That's why I'm reporting that it's Laschenka's. You can't put it on. So 6-a, 7-a, 8-a and 10-a. Right? All right, no questions like that. Now. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. The word is given to the head of the Committee of Krasnosil. Can I have your attention again? Turn on the microphone, please. 8 axles. No, 6 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u77	Colleagues, 6 amendments by the committee are edited. 7th accounted for editorially. 8 Amendments as Compromised by the Committee. So I'm asking you to confirm it, colleagues, if you insist on confirming it, 8 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u78	So we're also putting those that are edited, so we're voting them: they're taken into account. Let's put on confirmations such as edited according to the committee's proposal. Right? Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number six of the People's Deputies of Ustinov. I'll bet on the vote number six of the people's deputy Ustinov. It was considered editorially by the committee. That's right, taken into account editorially. Colleagues insist that it should be confirmed. I'm betting on her confirmation. Please support and vote. [[17:11:55]] For 243 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. I'm betting on the approval of the 7th Czernjev People's Deputy, and it's also considered editorially by the committee. Her colleagues urge her to vote and confirm it as stated by the committee, i.e. editorially. Please prepare for the vote. Please support and vote. [[17:12:37]] For 243 Thank you. For 243. Decision taken. Edit is confirmed by the committee. Show me the factions, please. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, the 8th National Deputy of the Krakhod. She was counted by the committee. The committee insists that it be supported. Colleagues insist that it be confirmed. I'll bet you a vote on the number 8 confirmation. Please support and vote. [[17:13:23]] For 248 Thank you. 248 – yes. Decision taken. Amendment No. 10 of the Cabachenka People’s Deputy was taken into account in an editorial way. She's now on the stand, Taras Ivanovich Batenko. Please vote and support. Editorially, as her committee has taken into account. [[17:13:57]] For 227 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to other rights. Amendment number 11, National Deputy Germany. Don't insist. There's no German, is there? Thank you. Lushenko. Don't insist. Alekseus. Aren't you going to insist on the paperwork? Which one, please tell me. Please turn on the Lashenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u79	50 to the right, 80 to the right, 109 to the right, 194 to the right, 228 to the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u80	Please repeat the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u81	228th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u82	Thank you. Slavic, line number 22. Don't insist. 29th Amendment, Vlasenko. Sergey Volodymyrovich, and on what papers. This is the right thing to do, isn't it? Okay. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u83	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I have 56 right-handers, I'm asking you to give me 5 minutes and me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u84	I'll give you five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u85	Can I have a timer? Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Once again, we've been told that it's only a bill about corrupters. It's not true, this bill isn't just about corruption, this bill about anyone, and I'm saying this, having a 20-year legal experience, I'm saying it's a bill about any Ukrainian citizen, because the definition of what illegal wealth is, unfortunately, is formulated in such a way that anyone can get it without purpose or desire or even sometimes knowing that it comes under the definition of this law. Unfortunately, the procedures introduced by this law, especially in the part of the so-called civil confiscation, in part three persons, and read by any citizen of Ukraine, are formulated in such a way that indeed, as the committee head said, the proceedings are actually judicial, but the proceedings of the court are written in such a way that, presumably, the issue of the arrest of property in the so-called third party, i.e. any citizen of Ukraine, may take place for the absence of such a citizen in court and without his report. That is, a person will not even know that his property has been arrested. And then under the current Ukrainian legislation, this property is passed on to the ARMA, and the ARMA implements it, and then it turns out that the corrupter who allegedly advised this property to be purchased is not a corrupter, but the property can not be returned, in any way impossible. Thus, every Ukrainian citizen is subject to this law. Next. The definition is defined in such a way that if someone who embraces a state office, as stated in the law, gives instructions to any person to acquire property. Mrs. Krasnosilska, I'm giving you instructions to purchase your property. And if you, God forbid, you buy something tomorrow, and I'm going to have problems, even though I don't see why, you're going under this law. Mr. Razumkov, I advise you to buy your property. Mr. Stefanchuk, I advise you to buy your property. I demand that you be instructed to purchase property. We see what the directions are in the General Prosecutor's Office's interpretation. Today, we all read the application to the people’s representative of Dubnewich for instructions. So all of this goes into this law. In any person who has only suspicions of something that is not even justified by anyone or anything, a civil trial can take place, and this process can take place, not even at the place where this person resides, but unknown where, and this property can be sold to this person without even having any real evidence of a relationship with a corrupter, and so on. All the amendments we've proposed, which I've proposed as a representative of the Fatherland faction, have to do with the setting up of fuses for just three people. It's to make sure that a person can't be arbitrarily glued, as they say, to the slang of law enforcement officers, glue to the corruptionist's case, take his property out of court by way of a court order without being challenged by the use of the ARMA, sell it -- and then let the person run for years and return his property. The law provides that the person on whom the judgment is based is to be noted, not in a criminal case, but in a court of law, he is to be dismissed. And tell me, please, what will happen if this decision of the court is subsequently overturned by a cassation and it is recognized that all previous decisions of the court were a legal error? Will such a person be reinstated at work? Will its rights be renewed? Does it receive compensation, at least? Unfortunately, there is no answer to all these questions in this law. This law, with proper slogans, is the right goal, but again, just like the Anti-Corruption of Corruption Act, by covering up a good rhetoric, they once again passed a law that applies to all Ukrainian citizens who wrongly take away, which creates mechanisms for unlawfully taking property from these citizens without even informing them of what is going on with them. The Fatherland faction has always supported the fight against corruption. We have always supported the state's growing efforts in this direction, but we certainly will not support the propaganda that draws all citizens of Ukraine into the hostages of the cosmopolitan struggle against corruption by those who don't even understand what they're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u86	Thank you. Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Thank you for having united your position in all directions. Amendment number 50, Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, this is the fourth part of article 89 of the Civil Procedure Code, introduced by Law 1031. The point is that the court prefers those arguments, the evidence that is more convincing. Instead, such a standard exists only in the institution of civil confiscation of the newly introduced one. There is no such norm anywhere else in any process. There are other criteria for assessing the evidence by the court. This is the first time. Secondly, the legislator does not decipher the notion of "convincing evidence." That is, there will be a lot of controversy and many references to the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u88	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 50, it's not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[17:21:54]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 60, Sumar. Don't insist. Will Victoria Petrovna insist? Thank you. Edit No. 80, Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u89	This is about the arrest of assets that the court can arrest in the conduct of a civil confiscation transmitted to the National Authority on Asset Management. But it's in favour of arresting the right to implement these assets. Think about it. Arresting is a precaution. A precautionary approach to the final settlement of a case, for example, when criminal conduct is involved, must be a sentence that has gained legal power, and assets can simply be taken into custody. And if there's an acquittal, what do you do next with the assets that are realised, how do you get them back to a person? This is also a gross violation of human rights. And I'm going to ask you to put this right here for confirmation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 80, Alekseyeva. Please identify and vote. [[17:23:38]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Eighty-one, Grissom. Don't insist. Line 101, Grissom. Thank you. And you're not going to insist, are you? Please turn on the fungi microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u91	No, I won't insist on editing. But I would like to ask the people's deputies to really think about this law and not vote for it just because we have to reform the public prosecutor's office and other power structures and then enforce similar laws. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u92	Thank you. Amendment number 109, Alekseyev. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, my appeal relates to the criterion for the third person on whom the property is shaped, as it were, at the direction of the court. The fact is, when the legislator prescribed this rule, he meant that this third person was not actually the owner of these assets, and he meant probably the drivers and other persons on whom the assets are manufactured. My right is to set the criteria for these third parties and not to apply the institution of civil confiscation to the person who led to the origin of the funds for which this property was purchased. I mean, she showed her declaration, showed that she paid her taxes and bought that property. Thank you for your attention. Please place the check on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u94	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yeah? Alexeiev, do you insist? I'm betting on the vote number 109. Please identify and vote. [[17:25:59]] For-79 - Seventy-nine. The decision is not taken. Line 110, Kabachenko. Don't you insist? Slavic, 132nd. Don't insist. And besides Alekseyev, will anyone else insist on editing? No, thank you, I'm fine. If there's no more. What's the readjustment, Victoria Petrovna? 177th, 143rd? [[B in m in s a l in]] We're past 77. No, no, I called it that. What's the next issue? 143rd?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u95	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u96	143rd, Sumar. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u97	Well, in fact, you're not following the Rules, you're asking the MPs who they're going to insist on, and you're going after the deputies, not the orders. Now, as far as this bill is concerned. Indeed, the committee took him seriously and worked hard. And I thank the committee for the changes that have been made. I would very much ask the head of the committee under the transcript to confirm that, in particular, the notion of "institution" is excluded from this bill. It's very important that we don't have any variations in this room right now and there's no speculation around the bill. Well, the fine is directly mine for not being able to arrest that property that is not doubtful, because it is provided in this case that you, if you can't arrest that property that is obtained illegally and proven, you will be arrested, well, there's the last property. So that this does not lead to abuse in this part, please place it on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u98	Thank you, Victoria Petrovna. Are you insisting on this? Amendment of 143 People's Deputies of Sumar. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[17:28:19]] For-93 The decision is not taken. 173 law, Drabowski. Don't insist. 177th, Drabowski. 192nd. Sumar. Don't you insist? 194th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, article 62, "The Order of Disclosure of the Bank's Secret." The bank's secret is a holiday from the saints, and all around the world it is revealed only by a court decision. And this bill gives us the right to simply, on a written request, disclose the bank's secret in its entirety, at the written request of NAB detectives and DBR investigators, that is unacceptable. This is the first time. Secondly, I want to say that this bill amends the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, and as a member of the Committee of Law, I want to state that these rules were not in the expertise of our committee. The committee of law enforcement has not reached its conclusion, but this is the subject of the regulation of our committee, and this is a violation of the Rules, I ask you to pay attention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u100	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 194 of Alekseyev. Please identify and vote. [[17:30:19]] For-99 The decision is not taken. Amendment 228. Alekseus. Is this the last one, yes, of yours you insist on? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, this is the last amendment I demand for confirmation. The fact is, in general, anonymous reports are unacceptable in any civilized country in the world. We've already allowed it in the Criminal Code, and we also want it to be. It was used in the Civil Seizure Institute, so we're already running the civil process with an anonymous message. I think it's unconstitutional, as a minimum. Please place this amendment on confirmation and vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u102	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 228 people's deputies, Alekseyev. Please tell the committee's position, please, on the 228th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u103	This amendment was rejected by the committee, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u104	Please vote and determine. [[17:31:33]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Edit 260, Sumar. Don't insist. Thank you. Amendment 291, Mayditch. Don't insist. Edit 307, Krasnosilski. Don't insist. Edit 311, Sumar. Don't insist. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've gone through all the lines, I'll give you two minutes to conclude the committee's head. And I ask the national deputies to come into the hall and take their seats, prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u105	No, and I can't put it out here for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u106	Or should I say that, or should I guess what I should do?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u107	I can't get confirmation from here, my friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u108	Wait, take your seats. Tell me, who, please? If you'll excuse me, please state your position. Edit 222 People's Deputies, Fries. Please turn on the microphone. [[B in m in s a l in]] Matusevich. You're the second reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u109	Please set up a confirmation check.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u110	It's rejected. What do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u111	Yeah, I'll take that into account. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u112	It's 222 people's deputies Fris and Matusevich, right? The position of the committee on this amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u113	Colleagues, the committee, who have rejected this amendment, can be counted on for the court’s judgment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u114	Please. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the vote number 222 of the Fries People's Deputies. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. The "Honey" system, do we vote? Please support and vote. [[17:35:10]] For 311 Decision taken. The 222 people's deputy, Fries, is on the table. Dear colleagues, we've gone through all the lines. Now please prepare, we will vote in favour of the law in the second reading and in general. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the confiscation of illegal assets of persons authorized to perform functions of the State or local self-government and punishment for the acquisition of such assets (registration No. 1031). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. Wait, wait. This is foreshadowed. It could be, it might not be. Don't insist on the committee. Is the committee insisting? Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u115	My colleagues, I very much ask you not to manipulate the fact that this bill violates the rights of third parties. The committee, by its decision, withdrew from the bill, in principle, the formulation of "indicative". He's not here. Criminal liability is assumed when the asset is acquired by the official. A third person can become a figure, not a figure, but a figure, and it can only be confiscated if the investigation proves that it took place at the hands of an official or if the official, in fact, is in charge of the property. Everything, no abuse, no violations of third-party rights in this bill, colleagues, does not happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u116	Thank you. Can we vote? I can't hear you. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. All right, we can vote, everyone has expressed their position. Once again, I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the confiscation of illegal assets of persons authorized to perform functions of the State or local self-government and the penalties for obtaining such assets (registration No. 1031). Please support and vote. [[17:37:56]] For 259. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Show me the factions, please. The People's Party – 227, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 7, "The Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 0, "The Voice" – 19, "the non-fractional" – 6. Thank you all, dear colleagues, who voted in favour of this important law for us. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. No, not the budget. Anbandling. 2239-1 registration number. The draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in relation to separation of activities from natural gas transport (registration number (2239-1), the so - called law on anbanding, second reading. The head of the Energy and Housing Committee, Herus Andry Mihajlovich, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u117	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the separation of natural gas transport activities was adopted on the first reading of October 18 of this year. The purpose of the bill is to ensure the fulfilment of Ukraine's obligations to separate activities from natural gas transport, electricity and to ensure the operation of the gas transport system operator, the transmission system operator under the Protocol to the Treaty establishing the Energy Community and taking into account the relevant provisions of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. The bill is designed to amend 10 laws of Ukraine. In preparing the bill, 169 proposals from 41 national deputies came to second reading. Most of the suggestions and rights came from a group of national deputies: Julia Timoshenko, Alexei Kucherenko, Sergey Vlasenko and Anna Speedhod in co-authorship with 27 national deputies who are in many ways identical. During treatment of 169 axles, 24 are counted, 145 are rejected. The committee approved the main amendment, number 43. I would like to draw attention to this issue, number 43, which is forbidden: first, privatization, second, concession, third, rent, fourth, management by third parties, which is not a state. In addition, it is suggested that 100 percent of the ownership of the company that runs this gas transport system be in the state. This was promised here on October 18, when the bill was considered by the Supreme Council in its first reading. With regard to the negative rights to the bill, they can be divided into several conditional blocks. The main ones are those who suggested that underground gas shelters be combined with the gas transport system, but the concept of this bill provided for the division and separation of the gas transport system. So please take into account the drafts of the bill, and please vote in the final edition proposed by the committee, which is included in the relevant bill in the decisions of the Committee on Energy and Housing Services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to law enforcement. Edit Number 4, Speedboat. Aren't you going to insist on your work? Thank you. Edit the number. Which one? Dear colleagues, we will be discussing matters for a very long time. Perhaps you will find a way to unite. Edit number four, Speedboat, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the requirements of the EU's Third Energy Package, we have a requirement for the division of gas production, gas sales and transmission. So nowhere is required and there are no mandatory standards for the separation of gas shelters from GTS. That's why I'm still following those regulations that predict that gas shelters and GTS, which are integral parts of each other and can't function without each other, have been counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u120	Many rights from Fatherland, namely from Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko. That's why the committee's position has been reached, yes, I understand. The committee does not object to the unification of these amendments. Julia Volodymyrna, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, this is about the Ukrainian gas transport system, but as we learned from the study of the law, there are also electricity transmissions, and there are gas depots. So, in principle, this is a complex law, which, when the government passed, predicted that these Ukrainian property objects would be transferred to the government unknown to which foreign corporations, but it says, either from the European Union or from the United States. It was written in the very text of the law. And in fact, if this law, which was passed at the request of the government in the first reading, was adopted in the same way in the second reading, that would mean that we don't have any more with you in the system and the administration, and the ownership of neither the gas transport system, nor the gas depots, nor the power lines. After all of the factions who were authorized to do this work have worked in detail without exception, I can tell you that there was consensus on all the issues on the committee. What is consensus? That means that all the people who worked at the Energy Committee, they all took state positions and voted on the very important things that I'm going to talk about a little bit later. But in general, this vote by the State Committee and the preservation for Ukraine of the gas transport system, the gas depots and the power lines, what we have saved, is because of the position of the deputies of the People's Servant faction. I want to tell you that if the "Serial of the People" faction on your faction, when you sat down, didn't deal with this issue and, God forbid, would support the government's decision, not the state's position, it would be an irreparable loss for the country. I just want to give this example of what colossal force is today in Parliament and separately in a faction that has an absolute majority in Parliament is a faction of the "Serve of the People" Party. I can tell you that since you're taking sides and taking sides with people, the life of the country changes, it's very responsible. And on this bill, I just want to say my feeling, a person who has experience that our Parliament is becoming from individual people who have come here into the real organ of the country's parliamentary system. And this is an example of how Ukraine can be truly beautiful and successful today. And thanks to the Servant of the People, and for your decision first, I want to ask you to have all the bills, whether they apply to the gas transport system or not, so that they become special to each of you in the "Serial of the People" faction, because you are shaping the life of the country and you are the unique organ of Parliament that can do anything today. You're above the government and even sometimes above the President, you're a real people who can change everything in the country. So I wanted to point out that the committee voted yesterday. First. They voted that the gas transport system and the power lines could not be privatized, sold, transferred to the office, leased and any other manipulation with them impossible. And we agreed on this, and the committee voted in favour of this, that completely, out of all the laws of Ukraine, these positions would be removed, which envisioned things that would essentially betray the national interest of Ukraine. The other one. We voted on the committee that without exception all the articles of this law, which provide for, not the state of government, but some unknown world corporations, will be removed. Because everything that the people of Ukraine have today is governed by the Cabinet of Ministers, and the state must rule. Third thing we voted on. We voted, in principle, everything we need to remove in this law relative to both the power lines and the gas transport system, everything that violates national interest and violates our property. These are very serious decisions. And I want to thank the committee for voting by consensus for this. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u122	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u123	Last thing I want to say is, we voted on the committee conceptually. And so I would like to ask that when we vote in favour of this law, we vote in parallel with the technical law, which takes into account all the decisions that the committee has unanimously taken. I welcome you with this decision, and I urge you all to vote on it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u124	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Heroic glory! A speedboat, isn't it? Thank you. Dear colleagues! I have information that will insist on 126 sides of Bilkov. Please tell me, who else from the national deputies will insist on their actions? What's the readout, Speedboat? A speedboat, what's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u125	47th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u126	Rule 47.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u127	Yes. We asked, we have a definition of a gas transport operator, and today it's actually an editorial regulation. In order to avoid the application of article 27, paragraph 1, I ask that this amendment be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u128	Committee position, Herus.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u129	This was taken into account editorially, so I have an offer to leave it in a version approved by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u130	Do you insist on voting? No. 47?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u132	I'll bet you a vote. Committee position: leave it as it is. Yeah? I'll bet you a vote on the total number 47 of the Krakhod People's Deputies. The committee supported her in part. It is suggested that you leave it in the same line. Please make up your mind and vote. [[17:51:45]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Kucherenko Alexiyyovich, what's the correction? Turn on the microphone, please, Kucherenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u133	Thank you. 169.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u134	100th?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u135	69th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u136	If we're looking at an irregularity, isn't that a very serious violation? [[B in m in s a l in]] We already have, we won't look twice at them, but the queue is possible. Edit Pussy Pussy. Please turn on the microphone again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u137	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear friends, the key to the future operator’s safety is his integrity. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today's Ukratransgazu operator has created enormous damage due to what's called a balance: 43 billion dollars that hang on it. If we don't settle this question for the new operator, as of January 1, debt will start to accumulate for the new operator. You've all heard of the so-called "frozen coefficients" that people are exhibiting today. This is also the reason for these debts, these are the consumption standards, these are the heatcommunergo costs. So I propose and I ask you to support me: entrust the government by January 1st to solve this problem and balance all debt commitments to go to zero. Otherwise, the January 1 collapse will begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u138	Thank you. Don't you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u139	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u140	This is 169 revisions, right? I'll bet you $169 for the vote. The committee didn't count it. Please identify and vote. [[17:53:56]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, what's the readout? I see Olga Valentine's Day. Batenko, what's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u141	Dmitry Alexanderovich, number 133. I'll just explain the point. Realizing that Ukraine's GTS has an important geopolitical strategic position and actually gives about 10 per cent of its revenue to Ukraine's state budget, it is important not to lose control of the financial plan of such a strategic enterprise in the Cabinet of Ministers. In fact, we understand that, according to the Ukrainian Code of Lordship, such natural monopolies, including the GTS, whose net profit exceeds 50 million dollars, should form a financial plan that is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please consider this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you insist on voting for this amendment? You insist, don't you? I'll bet you a vote on number 33. 133, I'm sorry. She wasn't counted by the committee, Batenko. Please identify and vote. [[17:55:14]] For-86 The decision is not taken. I understand, the last amendment, Belkova Olga Valentinovna, 126 revisions. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u143	Thank you, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u144	Dear colleagues, please invite national deputies. Now Belkova, correct, and you'll have to listen to the committee's position on this amendment. Olga Valentine's Day. Give it time from the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Dear Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I hope. I, first of all, thank you for having taken almost all my changes into account, and in the spirit of this constructiveism, I point out that yesterday, during a heated debate on the committee, one of my rights was missed, which is fundamentally related to others. You've accepted my 19th edition, which defines which tariff is to be set by an independent gas transport operator. Regrettably, however, at 126, where I asked to remove not the exact wording of this tariff, but from another law that logically relates to the first, the gas market, namely the NCREKP Act, a completely different edition remained. That means we're going to have a colossal in law. I am very much asking to support my right now 126, which removes from the NCREKP Law the instruction that literally says: secure the tariff.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u146	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. I also point out that my colleague, Mrs. Timoshenko, applied for the same treatment, a colleague of Krakhod and a group of deputies from the "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u148	Thank you, Olga Valentine's Day. Regulation. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Committee position. I can see that I remember. I remember everything. The position of the Committee on Amendment 126. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u149	She was. This amendment was rejected by the committee, but it actually makes sense to regulate a certain variation, where actually the same article in different laws reads slightly differently. So I think it would be appropriate to accept it, even though it was not approved on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u150	But your position is: do you support this, yes? Do you mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u151	You don't mind, I understand that, do you?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u152	I'm in.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u153	Andrew Mikhailovich, again, please go to the microphone. Your position -- you don't deny accepting this amendment, considering this amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u154	Not only do I not deny it, but I also strongly support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u155	Okay. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we're in the middle of something. I'll give you my word. Ready to vote? I'm betting on the vote of 126 national MP Belkovy. Committee position: They think it needs to be supported. So I'm putting it to a vote, and I'm asking you to support and vote. [[17:58:32]] For 325 I welcome you, Olga Valentinovna, your amendment is not only taken into account, but also by the constitutional majority. 325-yes. Edit included. Dear colleagues, we are. The motive is Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u156	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! I want to, and I'm first of all addressing the citizens of Ukraine who are looking at the course of events in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and explaining what is happening now. There's a historic moment going on. In the original form, this bill was initiated by the Grantoids, the Soros, and the Naku wanted to steal from the people of Ukraine. And thanks to the principled position and faction of the Fatherland and the faction of the Opposition Platform for Life, we today have a law that leaves national ownership of the state. But there's a question of gas shelters, because they're left on the balance sheet of NAC "Ukrainian Naftogaza," and that's very dangerous. And I would like it to be administered by the Ministry of Finance to take this corrupt component to the NAC. We support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u157	Minister Orgel Aleksei Anatoliyovich is motivated. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u158	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I want to say that, indeed, this is a historic moment, but a historic moment in the protection of Ukrainian interests. For a long time, we were unable to build the necessary legislative framework that meets European standards to stop being blackmailed so that we could ensure long-term transport of gas to Ukraine's territory, the use of the Ukrainian gas transport system and the provision of stable income from the core funds. So I very much ask you, National MPs, to support this bill. It's extremely important right now in our negotiations with the Russian Federation. We're taking a joint position with the European Commission, and, more than that, I can say, I'm very surprised at how the President, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u159	Thank you. The speedboat insists on the axles? Which direction do you insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u160	161th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u161	Are you going to insist on all your regulations, or are you going to sum it up?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u162	Well, you didn't call. Just like I wanted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u163	I'm sorry, I can't hear. Please sit down and calm down. Because the head of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u164	You know, it feels like we're having some kind of prank! If I said I wanted to do my job, then I want to do my job!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u165	I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u166	It's not that someone comes up to me and says, "Stop serving them."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u167	I'll ask you again. The faction position was slightly different. Do you want to know what kind of changes you want to go through? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u168	We made some arrangements on the committee yesterday. Today, when I read the entire text, these arrangements are not respected!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u169	Don't cry, please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u170	What kind of attitude is that?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u171	Calm down, please. Calm down, please. What's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u172	I can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u173	The number, what?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u174	161.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u175	161, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u176	According to the current text proposed, the decisions of the Ministry of Finance cannot be overturned by the Cabinet. How is that, please? I suggest you clean it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u177	Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u178	The position of the committee that today NAC Naftogaz Ukraine is in the hands of Kabmin. Accordingly, the State in the Ministry of Finance takes decisions on the gas system operator to be really on-going and to consider conflicts of interest. This requirement is for the bandage, for the Third Energy Package. Therefore, the committee’s decision was to reject our adherence to the marketing standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u179	Are you insisting on your right? I'll bet you a vote. 161th? I'll bet you a vote of 161 people's deputies, Speedhod. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[18:03:56]] For 158. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the next issue. People's MP Speedhod, what's the readjustment next?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u180	Now, I'll write you a letter. The 151st.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u181	It's 151. Turn on the mic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u182	Tell us, please, that we predict that the gas system operator and the transmission system operator are allowed to remove the land under them. What's the transmission operator for? I'm proposing an operator leave only an operator of the gas transport system because he's in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u183	Committee position. If possible, it's not bad enough. Why? We still have a budget today. We still have the miners. Yes, colleagues, yes. Yeah, it's gonna be a budget. So if I may, the position of the committee. Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u184	The bill proposes to settle the issue of the enbandling in the gas system and in the same way in the electricity system. So we have Ukrenergo enterprises, and we have in this same bill a total ban, similar to the GTS for privatization of electric mains, so in this case a similar approach to both gas networks and electricity networks. The committee therefore rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u185	Thank you. Are you insisting on your right? 151 correct, Speedboat. The committee doesn't count. Please identify and vote. [[18:05:57]] For-137 The decision is not taken. What's the next one?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u186	148.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u187	Edit 148, National Deputy Speedhod.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u188	If adopted in such an order, this will lead to higher tariffs for transporting gas. So I'm going to propose this right to accept and reject the project that was submitted to the second reading in this part.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u189	You insist, don't you? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u190	The committee rejected the amendment. The issue of tariffs is the issue of the regulator of the NCREKP and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So in this case, it's based on the costs that are incurred in those enterprises, and by law, we don't have any effect on what tariffs are to be set.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u191	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? Dear colleagues, we have a vote of 148. The committee suggested a rejection. Please vote and determine. [[18:07:25]] For 128 The decision is not taken. What's your next assignment?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u192	132nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u193	132nd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u194	Please delete section I, sub-paragraph 1, paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u195	It's all right, isn't it? Okay. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u196	The committee rejected the amendment and does not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u197	Thank you. Are you insisting on putting an order to the vote? You insist. Vote number 132 of the Krakhod People's Deputy. The committee suggests that this amendment be rejected. Please vote and determine. [[18:08:34]] For-126 The decision is not taken. Next, please, what's yours?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u198	125th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u199	Edit 125. Please, justification.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u200	Yes. We're predicting here that tariffs include the right level of income and cover the costs of the investment regulator's agreed upon. Dear colleagues, first of all, we don't have the right level of profit. And secondly, how can this be included in the tariff?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u201	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u202	The committee rejected this amendment. But this is a similar law as the decree of 126 national deputies Olga Belkovy. So this 125 can be supported, it's synchronous with the one we've already voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u203	Once again, please, what's your position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u204	The committee turned it down. But we've already voted on this today, this is Olga Belkovy's amendment, this is the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u205	So it's already been supported today, actually in this same editorial?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u206	125, 126, 127.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u207	Yeah? You don't insist then, do you, on this, I understand? Thank you. What's your next assignment?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u208	123.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u209	Edit 123 People's Deputy Speedhod. Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u210	We suggest that there be no agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u211	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u212	The committee turned it down. It's kind of hard for me to figure out, because we're going in the opposite direction. It seems to me that this agreement foresees just a certain influence of the public authorities. So in this case, we've turned this down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u213	Thank you. Are you insisting on putting the vote to the vote? You insist. Dear colleagues, we have a vote of 123 people's deputies, Krakhod. The committee proposes to reject this amendment. Please vote and determine. [[18:10:47]] For 118 The decision is not taken. What's your next assignment?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u214	11th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u215	And this is the last, so I understand, your amendment, is it still there?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u216	No, there'll be another one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u217	One more. Edit 11, please, National Deputy Speedhod. Justification.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u218	I ask you to take part in the part where it is predicted that "a hundred percent of the corporate rights of the shares of which the state belongs" is supplemented by words.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u219	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u220	The committee rejected the amendment. As far as I can tell, it's the same thing as storage, underground gas shelters, but it's in there. We also have 100 percent property in full account of 143, as referred to by Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, so in this case the committee rejected this amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u221	Will you insist on voting? You will, won't you? Dear fellow Members, vote No. 11 of the Krakhod People’s Deputies. The Board of Corrections rejected it. Please Vote and Identify [[18:12:25]] For 128 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we can move on, right? Well, is that how you feel about factions? Show Mrs. Heratchenko to the factions. People's Servant 60, Opposition Platform 10, European Solidarity 17, Parenthood 16, For the Future 5, Voice 6, non-fractional 14. The full triumph of democracy. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have the last draft left, I understand? Another one? And I'm going to ask people to come together, because after that, we're going to vote for the bill. What's the readjustment, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u222	One second, I'll find it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u223	Please, but you only have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u224	Yeah, it's a 66.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u225	Amendment 66.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u226	We have article 45 foresaw that only 51 percent of the corporate rights of a gas company could be owned. I'm asking you to make an editorial and replace "51 percent" with "100 percent," so there's no possible manipulation of that. Because once again, GTS can't work without gas shelters, and vice versa, it's the only system.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u227	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u228	This right over here says that the gas shelter is part of the gas transport system. But in our model of anband, underground gas shelters stay in Skrtransgas, and the GTS goes to the Ministry of Finance, where the government will run the state in the person of the Ministry of Finance. It's a model of anbanding--division. If we change the model, we're going to be able to get the hang of it by January 1st. That's why we're not looking at underground gas shelters right now, and we've turned this down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u229	Are you insisting on this? I can't hear you. Turn on the mic, please. I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u230	I'm asking for a refill. Since we don't make the gas shelter part of the gas transport system, I ask in article 45, where I ask it to be put in such an edit, there just make the changes and 51 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u231	I'm sorry, it can't be that way. Suggestions are made in writing. There can be no voice there or any other offer is now made. Please tell me about the number 68 amendment, do you insist on voting it or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u232	66. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u233	66, I'm sorry. Are you insisting? Dear colleagues, I'm putting the number 66 of the Krakhod People's Deputies to the vote. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[18:15:30]] For-137 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! National Deputy Speedhog, are you insisting on any further revisions? Oh, no? Thank you. And let's not get nervous where we don't need to, I can tell you. Turn on the mic, please. Microphone Speedwalk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u234	Let us respect each other and not violate the constitutional rights of all lawmakers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u235	I think the work of this Supreme Council has certainly not yet been violated by the Constitution. But I'm going to count and hand over these wishes to your faction colleagues. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. We've been through everything, and I welcome you. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in relation to the separation of natural gas transport activities (registration No. 2239-1). As long as our colleagues are meeting, I would like to point out that I am grateful to all the political forces and national MPs who have joined this process. And what is important is that everyone has endured the agreements that were reached in the adoption of this law in the first reading. Ready to vote? I'd like to put this to a vote, please support and vote. [[18:17:50]] For 341 Thank you. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. People's Party, 238, 230 what? 238. Opposition Platform — Life — 16, European Solidarity — 19, Parenthood — 18, For the Future — 10, Voice — 18, non-fractional — 22. I thank everyone for that position. [[Applause]] Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The next issue is Bill 2283. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2019 (registration No. 2283) The report is given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of the Disturbed Forest Victorian. Valentine's Day, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u236	Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished foreman, national deputies and invited! On October 18, the Supreme Council adopted bill 2283, with further revisions to the second reading procedure. The committee received 62 proposals from members of the People's Parliament for this bill, which are generalized in a comparative table. The Committee on Budget Affairs, with the participation of the Ministry of Finance and the heads of the Court of Auditors, reviewed proposals, resulting in the committee preparing a comparative table with the conclusions on them and the final text of the bill. At the same time, because of a special structure and a considerable amount of supplements, it is technically impossible for the comparative table to show the final version of the appendix to the bill by form approved by law. Therefore, at this stage, to ensure that all the proposals supported by the Committee for changes in budgetary indicators are fully reflected, such proposals are grouped separately in the Committee's distribution of conclusions. In general, the committee proposes to take 20 proposals into account and to reject 42 suggestions. When the bill is finalized for the second reading, it is suggested to address, among other things, the following issues: to limit the inclusion in the special fund of confiscated funds, which on October 1st amounted to 1 billion 560.1 million dollars, but are not included in the planned revenue figures of the State Budget, with a total of 524 million dollars of the Ministry of Defence for the provision of military commissioners and their comprehensive security, as provided for in article 35 of the Act, and a sum of 1 billion 36.1 million dollars of the money, the "Skratodora" for the development of public roads. Also redistribute individual expenditure to address urgent issues by assessing the state of use of funds by the end of the year by some budget programs. This is the expenditure of the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Youth and Sport, the National Academy of Medical Sciences, the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences, Ukrainetodor, the Supreme Council's Office, the Attorney General's Office. In addition, to standardize the retention of the remaining subsidies for the following year for the socio-economic development of individual territories and to provide technical and legal clarifications.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u237	Let me finish for 10 more seconds, please. Please bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u238	That's where it's important to make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u239	30 seconds, no more.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u240	to comply with the current drafting of the State Budget Act, taking into account the changes made on October 2 on the costs of "Staff" and taking into account the comments of the GNEU, correcting the inaccuracies. However, it is proposed not to support a number of proposals by deputies that increase expenditure on individual budget programmes. As a result of the Committee's consideration, it decided to recommend to the Supreme Council: first, Bill 2283 should be adopted in the second reading and generally as a law in the final edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u241	Thank you. And I'd like you to know for the next time that it's three minutes. I'm sorry, the rules are the same for everyone. Dear colleagues, we're going to look at the rights that have come. Amendment number one, National Deputy Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. I ask you to step aside, please, without seeing the national MPs. Are you insisting? Ladies and gentlemen, if you will excuse me for placing your bodies in the back alley, please move to different directions. Guys, you can't see, they don't show a reporter. Please correct number one. Julia Volodymyrically, do you insist? You don't insist, do you? I'm sorry, dear fellows behind the National Deputy Krakhod, but I don't see a man initiating a warrant! The fact that you sit down doesn't save the situation, if you think so. Step aside, please. And now I see that Julia Volodymyrna is gone. Please correct number two. National Deputy Davidenko. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 3. People's MP, Greeb. Is he insisting? Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] He insists. People's deputy mushroom, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u242	Dear colleagues, I have really given many rights only because, unfortunately, the problems of Luhansk and Doniečina have been practically overlooked. Yeah, we're told that one billion is now going to miners. They need much more. And we realize that it's just to pay off the part of the debt that's in front of the miners today. So I'm going to go through all the lines that I've been giving, and today I'm going to try to argue why we need to redirect some of the funds to Donetsk and Lugansk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u243	Thank you. And we won't be able to build our work with you. I'll give you a few minutes, will you say so, and we'll skip all these adjustments? Will you insist on confirming each amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u244	..to ask the national deputies to support them, i.e. to put everyone to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u245	Are you all going to vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u246	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u247	Thank you. It's the vote number 3 of the people's Humpple MP. The committee rejected the amendment. Please vote and determine. [[18:25:54]] For-54
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u248	For 54. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there are some revisions where there is no author now, we'll come back to them if you don't mind, a little later. Amendment 14, Royal. Yes, Taras Ivanovich? 8 Orders? Taras Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u249	Yes, yes, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u250	I remember coming back to them, if you don't mind, from the 7th to the 11th. Amendment 14, Royal. None. 16, Timoshenko. 17, Davidenko. Dubnov, 18. 20th, Grissom. Please turn on the fungi microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u251	Dear colleagues, with this right, I propose that cities be able to use the funds that have come from the DFRD so that they will not be taken up in December, but continue to do so by at least June 2020. This amendment is due to the fact that the funds came much later, not since January, but from June 2019, and some cities have really not been able to use them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u252	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'll bet you 21 people's deputies will vote. Committee, committee, please. Please state your position to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u253	The position of the committee is rejected because the application does not respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u254	In the microphone, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u255	He's not answering. Overruled. It does not meet the requirements of the Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u256	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u257	Budget allocations under these programs of the General Fund become obsolete after the end of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u258	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number 21 of the people's representative of the Gryb. She was not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[18:28:40]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Edit 23, Grissom. Are you insisting on all the work? Are we still going to unite? Well, I'm going to have to continue the sessions then, I'm going to go to the Council with this request. It's just that we have miners here. And if we don't accept it today, well, I kind of think they're going to visit someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u259	Yeah. No, I don't mind, I have time. I suggest we continue our work then, and we wait for them to visit us, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u260	I am sure that I will consider the urban offer next time. Thank you. Mushroom, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u261	Dear colleagues, we're not afraid of miners, because we're protecting their interests -- this is the first time. Secondly, once again, 1 billion miners today do not solve the issue of wages, wages. Already, Mr. Shahov has repeatedly said, "We're just holding people back from strikes right now." They'll come and they'll ask where their money is. And we're going to have to answer that. Secondly, I would like to talk today about some of the issues that apply directly again to the Luhansk and Donetsk regions. Previously a reverse grant, it was made out of these cities, despite the fact that there was a blockade that, we know, led to the fact that the cities stopped coming, taxes from uncontrolled territory. And what does that say today? It's about the reverse grant.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u262	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u263	Committee position denied. Because the proposal is unfounded because there is a significant failure to implement the indicator. Nine months later, 31 billion dollars were not received on the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u264	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 23 of the people's representative of the Gryb. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[18:31:17]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 28, Batenko. Taras Ivanovich, do you insist? Previous revisions, I remember you insist. Are you going to insist on the next one or not? There's no royal in the hall? Batenko, 36. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u265	Dear friends, I understand we're still up to ten.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u266	We'll go back, we'll go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u267	Regulation 36. Well, we're fighting so hard for the DFRD under the 20th year budget. And that DFRD that wasn't used in the 19th year, well, you can't take 500 million and throw it in the dark. Friends, well, these are the costs of the State Regional Development Fund for the creation of OTG infrastructure, sports infrastructure, innovation parks, and so on, our united communities, small towns, and so on. Irresistible. And the MP group "For the Future" is absolutely insisting on this side, and we're going to see all of our MP factions in this room vote and revive the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u268	Please turn on the committee microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u269	Thank you. 36 The amendment refers to the cancellation of financial support for Ukraine’s international positive image in relation to it. small use of the application. In 9 months, only 60 percent were used.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u270	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich, do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 36 of the Batenka People's Deputies. She's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[18:33:20]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 41, Bondar. Don't insist. Edit 42, Grissom.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u271	I've already talked about miners, so I don't insist on that because.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u272	You don't insist, do you? Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u273	Just this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u274	Turn it on. Please tell the microphone, because you're not being heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u275	I'm saying that I don't insist on this, because I've been talking about it in practice, it's about miners again. And I would very much like to be explained to us, Head of the Committee, why these amendments were rejected. And for today, we understand where we can get the money. Unfortunately, we did not see that in the response of the committee manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u276	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u277	Thank you. In order to understand the position, please take a look at the state of implementation of those income articles that you referred to for growth. In particular, if we're talking about value added tax, in 9 months, the difference is 13 percent. If we are talking about part of the net profit of the state-owned unitary enterprises referred to, the failure to do so is almost 20 percent. Now, about your 41. The bill has already increased by 1 billion dollars in the article, and the proposed reduction of the contingency fund is unfounded, with more than a billion already being allocated from the coal support reserve fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u278	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? 42 lashes, Grissom. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[18:35:19]] For-61 Mikhail Leontijovich, I told you, you're not. [[B in m in s a l in]] 42 and the readjustment's coming up. No, no, I was sounding Bondar, and unfortunately you didn't take the stand. Pick up the stenographer, check it out. Dear colleagues. The decision is not taken. Okay. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've been through everything. I'll show you the transcript later, okay? Okay, 41 revisions, but you pick up the transcript and show me I didn't say that. Okay? Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u279	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u280	No. 41.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u281	Thank you very much. I just want to say that, you'll see, by the end of the year, we're going to be making law by the end of the year to further support miners. So not to do that, we're offering now, and Mushroom, and I'm going to make an adjustment and raise the cost to cover the cost of coal production, which is to pay off the wages. I'm still asking you to support my work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u282	Mikhail Leontijovich, do you insist on voting? I'll bet you 41 people's deputies on Bondar's vote. The committee didn't support her. I'd like to identify that one. Huh? Wait. What? I'll bet you a vote. Lecia, I ask you very much: either you report it from the committee or you do not comment. Thank you very much. I'll bet you 41 people's deputies on Bondar's vote. Please identify and vote. [[18:36:59]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next line is 44, Grissom.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u283	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I'll probably take your advice and take five minutes to stay out of trouble.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u284	How many lines do you have left?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u285	Well, there's still a lot, for five minutes, and maybe more. Well, give me three minutes, okay, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u286	Three minutes, okay. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u287	Dear colleagues, unfortunately too much, I was unable to take part directly in the committee meeting, but when the proceedings were under way, but as the assistants told me, what was actually going on on on that committee: those amendments that were already being submitted after the deadline for the submission of the rights had ended, they began to be accepted by the vote. And one of those 200 million, it was accepted to build a lane near the airport in Dnipropetrovsk. So, instead of directing this kind of money really to Lugansk, Donetsk district, those that are in great need right now, we understand which areas, we're going to be with you now to support those airports, by the way, which are private. I'd really like to hear an explanation from the committee head right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u288	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u289	The committee was looking at the proceedings, and in fact, it was bugged, and there's an explanation for the support of the committee of the regulation: in view of the fact that the lane is actually owned by the State. The author may comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u290	Thank you. Are you insisting on 44 to the right? Oh, no? Thank you. David Georgievich! Dear colleagues, back to the lines we passed at first. It's number 11, Buymeister. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u291	Good day, Your Honor, distinguished national MPs. I'd like to ask this room to support number 11. This is a huge adjustment for Kiev and for all the Chinese. So if we don't accept this amendment, there's going to be a stop in Kiev for the construction of the Dalisca-Voscresen Bridge, there's going to be a stop in Kiev for the construction of the metro on the Vineyard, and there's a lot of other infrastructure critical projects. So I'm very much asking the hall today to show consolidation around the city where we all live and work, and to enable Kiev to solve these problems, not to stand in traffic for hours. I'm very grateful, and I hope you understand. Please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u292	Dear colleagues! Sophia, are you insisting on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 11, People's Deputy Buymister. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[18:41:13]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Dubnov. 9th row, Tachenko. 9th row, Tachenko. Don't insist. Eight lashes, Batenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u293	Dear friends, you know, you can criticize the mayor of Kiev, you can criticize the mayor, but you can't stop loving the city of Kiev. There are no major MPs in our future group from Kiev, but I am now addressing the Chinese who are present in this room, majors from "Serve of the People," because the "Serve of the People" party has monopolized all major districts in Kiev. And the Chinese, who are now being protected by the "For the Future" MP group, have to see how the "Serial of the People" faction takes the money they have to spend on infrastructure objects. Show me, my friends, how you love the city of Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u294	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. It's just that we still have two adjustments, if I'm right. Amendment number 10, Dubnova. And then 7th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u295	Dear colleagues, this amendment refers to a very important topic for the Chinese, as it relates to capital construction and infrastructure. I represent the Righteous District of Kiev, and every resident of our area stands in traffic for 2-3 hours each day. Because every authority that comes in promises to solve the problem of transport collapse that is not done. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this amendment, as it is of great importance to the capital’s inhabitants in view of the overall size of the objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u296	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Committee position 10 on the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u297	Declined. The committee's dismissed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u298	Edit Number 10 is not supported by the committee. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a motion for rejection of the 10th Amendment. Please identify and vote. [[18:43:46]] For-126 126. The decision is not taken. Amendment number seven, National Deputy Bondar. Please turn on the Bondar microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u299	Thank you. The bill provides for the removal of State aid to the city of Kiev. In 2019 the construction of large infrastructure objects, such as the metro of the Sirec-Pecher Line, was simply a subway to the Vineyard. These objects are too important for the capital, and we all know how much time we all stand in traffic. But not everyone knows that these extra time travel costs to the city cost about 2 billion dollars a year of socio-economic damage. And if we build a subway on the Vineyard, we'll be able to reduce this damage in one year by repairing the public transport system. I don't think we can strike a subway in Kiev. And I also want to talk about trust -- trust cities in the state. Because a contract is more expensive than money, and it is not possible to change the terms of the contract when the city has already spent money on certain jobs. Please put to the vote my bill, which at least leaves the financing of the subway for the vineyard that Kiev has been waiting for 40 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u300	Dear colleagues, please prepare. For reasons of what? For reasons of what? We've got the last piece of work. There's a position, there's a committee position, he doesn't deny this amendment. How is it that, when a reporter is speaking, it's not your right, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours? There was just a position. Dear colleagues, there is a position of committee that does not object to this amendment. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote for this amendment. Julia Volodymyrna, everyone will speak. They are. I say again, for this amendment, I understand, there is a desire for the hall to support it. And then they're all going to be politically speaking about the 7th. There's a desire to support it. One faction, the other. That's what I understand. [[B in m in s a l in]] Instead of fixing it, one minute. Then to all the political parties and groups that are represented in the hall. Okay. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u301	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask the hall to support the city of Kiev instead of all the rights I have now. Because Kiev is our capital, the way it looks, the way the subway works, the way the local transport works, the way children's gardens are built, the schools, it depends on the face of our state. I think the question of Kiev must go beyond any political opposition. And that's why our team, the Fatherland faction, is turning to the hall to support the 7th edition now, and return Kiev to 3.6 billion dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u302	Thank you. The word is given to David Georgiyovich, the "Serving of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u303	I pass on the word to Ludmila Buymaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u304	No, there are factions or factions' heads. Please, David Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u305	He's been doing a little trolling on me right now. Look, we have a situation with the budget adjustment for Kyiv directly: we have 10 amendments and we have 7 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u306	I'm sorry, we turned down the 10th. Then go after her, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u307	We didn't push it all the way down there. There is. I'll tell you later. There's an 11th, actually a duplicate, so I'm saying there's still a possibility. And we have to decide directly on the Kiev budget. Now there are suggestions to allow only 7 revisions - subways, financing only subways, or allow 11 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u308	It is rejected, David Georgievich. I apologize again for interrupting, but she can't be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u309	Declined, there are no more options in fact than to vote for 7 and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u310	Thank you for your support. Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u311	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians and respected cynics! This is what happens when bills are considered in the hall without proper preparation. Because it's just been taken from Kiev right now. Thank you, Lord, for now on the 7th, it finally came to pass that the Chinese who chose the People's Servants in Kiev are taking the money. And you, as they say, now you realize that this should be supported. But correctly said the head of your faction, that aside from the 7th, which subway to the Trinity, thank God that now the Trinity will be off the subway, so you've made an adjustment that could really help unload the transport situation in the city, but you don't want to go back. So I have an offer: 7 votes in favour. But laws always prepare much more carefully to avoid mistakes that you made 10 minutes ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u312	Thank you. Arthur Volodymyrovich, first of all, I would like to thank you for your support for the political party "Serve of the People" and its position, but let us not push the leadership of the Supreme Council or the people's deputies for violating the Rules. I know you're good at this, but you don't have to. Thank you. "The Opposition Platform for Life", Papiev Mikhailo Mikolayovich. And then we move on to the vote, I understand. Ah, Voice, and that's it, and then we move on. Deputies factions and groups. Sergei Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry. Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u313	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! I want the Chinese to understand what's going on now. In terms of sports terminology, "The Servant of the People," the political power, is now using non-sportative methods to fight the mayor of Kiev, Vitali Klick, because it's completely wrong to take and remove $3.6 billion in money from the kyans. Is it for "Serve of the People" now the thesis: the worse it is in Kiev, the better it is for the political power of "Serve of the People," is it worth this 3.6 billion dollars today? Put your hands together a little bit in your fight. Surprisingly, remember that the Chiyans are the same citizens of Ukraine, and here local self-government collects these costs and works to make Kiev's budget fill. You can’t wrongly take money from them that you don’t! It's the money of the kyans! I'm still asking you not to remove 3.6 billion dollars. We voted in favour of this bill in the first reading with disgust, and now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u314	Thank you. Batenko. No, Taras Ivanovich Batenko, and then Revoslav Ivanovich Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u315	Colleagues, please give the floor to the representative of the faction of our Igor Guzu, who represents the mining region of Volin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u316	No, I don't. Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u317	Igor Goose.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u318	Igor Goose. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u319	Dear friends, no doubt the billions of dollars that come to miners is very good. But what I'd like to say is that they've repeatedly called attention to culture, how decisions are made, how money is shared by socioconomy. Why are we speaking with the mouths of the "Serves of the People" that the problem is only on Donbas?Oh, my God! In Volina, in other regions, in Montenegro, especially there, there is a lot of trouble on the Rest. They collect funds from objects that are already at work, social areas, and so forth. It's wrong, it's unfair. Our MP group calls on both the Ministry of Finance and the Committee of Budgets and the government more publicly to raise and harmonize with the deputies in the Hall in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u320	Svoslav Ivanovich Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u321	Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Something in there. One second. All of it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am looking at these changes and I am looking at what kind of discussion is going on, and I am really having an absolute misunderstanding. Dear colleagues from the "Serve of the People" faction mentioned here that you won all the major districts in Kiev. And now you're taking the money out of the shed with your own voices. Well, how can that be. I can't understand it. This is our capital, and we have to support it. It is a pity that we are now fighting for only one correction and the rest have been rejected. I think that Kiev is not something to be forgotten, but it should be remembered that it is our capital. Thank you. And we need backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u322	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank everyone for supporting the ruling of the political party's "Serve of the People" party, which is their turn. That's why. Such a lively discussion in the hall about the 7th amendment that we're about to vote for, and I, looking at the hall, understand what they're voting for. No, it's not. Thank you, that's all. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] And so do the miners. Come on. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I'm betting on the vote number 7 of the Bondar People's Deputy. It wasn't taken into account by the committee, but from the position we heard from the political party "The Servant of the People," which, if I heard correctly, was supported by all the political parties and groups represented in the Supreme Council Hall. We'll see who won't support the return of funds to the city of Kiev. This is number seven. Please. I'll bet you vote number seven. Please support and vote. [[18:55:00]] For 292 Thank you. Edit included. 292 – in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in and out, 10. Show me the factions, please. Political Party "The Servant of the People" – 221, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 10, "The European Solidarity" – 18, "The Fatherland" – 15, "For the Future" – 3, "The Voice" – 13, "the Non-Factional" – 12. Thank you. Decision taken. I'm giving you a minute from the motive of the Minister of Finance, Markar Oksana Sergiyovna, and we're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u323	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman and national deputies, I thank you very much for considering today's changes to the 2019 budget. In fact, it consists of three parts: changes related to Kabmin; changes that provide, most importantly, additional funds to miners, our military to the forward; and replenish the reserve fund. Because if Kiev has a lot of funds in its accounts, and you let them not return any extra funds to the state budget today, then there's no one to take care of the miners and the military and the reserve fund with you. So thank you. We ask you to support the bill so that tomorrow we can send the miners this billion that is budgeted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u324	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've really done a great job. It's not always easy, it's not always a thank-you job, but it's been done by everyone, all the people's deputies who are in this room, the committee, the ministry. And hopefully in the future, we'll see the same fruitful work on other bills. That is why I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2019 (Registration No. 2283). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:57:17]] For 291 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you all. Show me the factions, please. The "Serial of the People" faction – 235, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 13, "European Solidarity" – 1, "Fathership" – 12, "For the Future" – 10, "Voice" – 0, "non-factional" – 20. Thank you. Decision taken. I wanted to thank everyone for the job. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow our work will begin at 10 a.m. And, as Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk says, don't forget your card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m1.u325	Because tomorrow we're gonna check them in.
