ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u1	Good morning! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I'd like you to sign up. Please register. [[10:03:58]] 299 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Members of the government, headed by Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman, are taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Hello, colleagues, our government. Colleagues, can we move on to an hour of questions to the government? Let's move on to the hour of questions to the government. Today, from the government, the word is given to Eugene the Destroyer. Yeah? So Eugene the Destroyer. Yes, please, you can. And then the word will be given to factions and deputies for questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u2	Thank you. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable Prime Minister, the Honorable Colleagues, the Honourable People's Deputies, dear Ukrainian People! I'd like to touch on a very important subject. [[B in m in s a l in]] The people of Ukraine. Thank you very much. I'd like to touch on the subject of decentralization in culture today. When we travel across Ukraine, in some areas, we face this problem when we see some inequality in access to the cultural life of large cities, the capital, where it is very saturated. There is much to be said about their quality and level, but at least there is a choice. And when we talk about small cities that have less than 50,000 people, we're dealing with the fact that small towns are closing down cultural houses or libraries. When we talk about united territorial communities, we think about what people should be united in. In fact, we believe that the cultural centers themselves can become the great uniting factor when the new life of the library, the museum environment, can unite people. There are also cases of large acquisitions of cultural heritage, palaces, gardens, fortress walls throughout Ukraine. And here I would like to say that it is the owners who are responsible for their preservation, for their development. Whether it's communal property, whether it's communities, or sometimes it's private hands that they bought, and then for a long time they deliberately lead to destruction to build something there. There are some pleasant times, of course, where in a city or a city there is a rise in fame due to the fact that people realize that, for example, in the village of Reschetylovka, you have to return the combination from the fabric and the embroidery or other pleasant experiences. It's really important. When people learn that a prominent figure has been born in that small town, it is in her name that the glory of the town can be restored. For villages, villages, circuit centers, it is very important to look around, see and understand their uniqueness and appeal to millions of interior and outdoor tourists who always want to see something new. In this context, I would like to present to you today the launch of a project competition to stimulate regional development and cultural heritage promotions called "Little Cities Are Great Impressions." And thank you for the opportunity, from this very rostrum, from the rostrum of Parliament, to present it and thus report it to all regions of Ukraine. This project, which was launched in 2018, found a remarkable response in communities that submitted more than 150 applications, and this was the first attempt to bring questions into line with the daily cultural development of small cities and territories. Thanks to you, national deputies who understand the importance of cultural heritage and the Prime Minister's initiative to develop national identity, to build regional competitiveness and to increase the tourist appeal of the communities, 50 million dollars were foreseen in the State Budget in 2019. These funds will support cultural initiatives in the population of up to 50,000 inhabitants. Minculture's task was to develop a completely understandable, easy-to-use and transparent environment. Why have we approved the order of the "Little Cities – Big Impressions" project I want to present today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine? The goal of the competition is to draw attention to the state of cultural heritage in communities, to encourage it, to restore it and to integrate it into the lives of communities, thereby stimulating the economic attractiveness of the territories, and I'm not just talking about the immovable cultural heritage. Equally important is the introduction of cluster models for cultural development in communities in conditions of decentralization and the involvement of stakeholders in the use of cultural heritage resources and creative industries for community development. The implementation of the project should contribute to the development of a stable and inclusive society with a high quality of life, which is, after all, a key task of joint action and government and parliament. Last year we actively encouraged communities to live creatively, and I had the privilege of presenting projects here. And this year we propose a new slogan: "Look at Ukraine!".. Who Can Share? I would like to point out immediately that the competition is open to the initiative of all those who wish, regardless of their territorial location. You can be a social organization, a united community, an enterprise, a creative society. It's so-called, even though there's no cultural subsidy officially, it's in the MoE, it's in the MoE -- it's not in the culture -- so we compensate for the so-called cultural subsidy. The main thing is that the project is implemented in a population of up to 50,000. It is the people of such places who have the least access to cultural services and need your support and involvement, since the latest statistics show that people in small towns, in united communities, at times after six months, were not at any cultural event. This is unacceptable! Who makes decisions about the winners? The competition will be held as transparently as possible, the position of the competition is already available on the Internet, and we will soon begin to form an expert council to include recognized professionals in the fields of culture and art, cultural heritage, museum affairs, regional or local development, representatives of the Association of Local Self-Government Authorities, project management experts, finance and communication. And I'm just going to modestly approve the results of the expert evaluation of the initiatives. What are the main stages of the competitive selection that should be expected of the initiating groups? First, we will announce the launch of the competition and the acceptance of the applications, in parallel with the clear and transparent principles of the members of the expert board, then two stages will be followed by the evaluation of the applications first on the basis of the documents submitted to the required requirements, and then on the expert evaluation of the projects and the presentation of the applications to the expert board. After the evaluation, the results of the competition will be published and projects will begin to be implemented. The general budget of the 19th year competition will be 50 million dollars distributed among small, medium and large projects. The sums of the Minculture contribution you see on the presentation. But we want a real partnership with local governments, business, of course, so the share of mandatory co-financing is set at not less than 30 percent. I want to warn you that we will not leave project initiators alone with project applications. The budget for the competition includes training sessions, seminars, information and awareness campaigns in all regions of the country. We are ready to extend our hand of help and to promote the maximum awareness of all those who want to prepare quality project applications. I want to be clear about the application procedure right now. The list of criteria for evaluation is unified, publicly available, it is in the additions to the status of the contest. At the first stage, applications will evaluate the originality of the idea, the relevance of the project, the value of the project, the content, the sequence, the implementation and the added value of the project, as well as the criteria, promotions, and stability. So we're looking forward not to a one-time festival, but to projects that stay in communities that will develop and work there, because our goal is constant. And in the end, I want to announce to you the key dates of the competition: April 15 – the beginning of the bids (30 days), May 16 – the beginning of the evaluation of the bids, July 5 – the announcement of the winners, July 15 – November 20 – the implementation of the projects, December 1st – the deadline for the project reporting, because it is necessary to take responsibility for the receipt of the budget. Finally, I invite you to take a look at a few slides on the results of the 18th pilot competition, for which ten fewer funding was allocated last year, and once again call on everyone: look at Ukraine, love Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u3	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to issues from factions and groups. Anyone who intends to ask the government a question from factions and groups, please record. From the Opposition Block, the word is given to Dobrenkov. Debt, right? Is everyone all right? Please, Dobrenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u4	Honorable members of the government, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I only have one question. Some of this is not a very typical situation in the market for natural gas tariffs. On the other hand, the NCREPR has set new tariffs this year, and it turns out that tariffs for the population are more than 8 and a half thousand dollars, and tariffs for industrial consumers are more than 5,000 900 dollars. How can this be the case when industrial consumers consume natural gas at prices lower than those for the population? How are we going to correct this situation because it is an unprecedented situation in Ukraine in general in the pricing market, since the State has always set cheaper tariffs for the population? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u5	Mr. People's Honourable Deputy, thank you very much for your question. But I would like to say that the government has always stood, stood, and stood in the defense of the Ukrainians. And the Ukrainians paid and would pay at a fair price. Indeed, yes, when the price of the Habi was set at 10,000, and industrial enterprises paid more than 11,000 per thousand cubic metres, the government made a decision and gave special duties to limit the cost of natural gas. With regard to world energy prices, we are pursuing a gradual downward trend, and on April 3, the government adopted a decision allowing the NAC monopoly Naftogaz Ukraine to take, to reduce the cost of natural gas, which is released directly by the category of "physical persons", i.e. by consumers, heat-efficient enterprises, from a price that is formed as an average over the previous month for industrial consumers who pay gas at prepayment. So this issue is under control, it's settled, and never, ever, will the Ukrainian consumer pay more than the cost of natural gas for industrial consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u6	From Rebirth to Rebirth Group, Valerius Pisarenko is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u7	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear members of the government! I have two questions that I would like to ask you from the Harkians who came to see me. The first is: how it goes and will happen in further setting up counters for private users, as this program is being implemented. And the second is about monetaryization. People have faced problems when they have to pay everyone first. pay the payments, and then they're the only ones who get the money from the state. How does this problem come to an end? Do you know her? And what about the coinage? We had a month, I take it, when the coinage seemed to be on our hands. If possible, in two words, how successful this work has been, and what the plans are for the months ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u8	Please, Reva. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u9	Dear People's MP Pisarenko, I am very grateful for this question, because there are many speculations in the media about government programs. I want to assure you, in your person all of your constituents, the voters of Ukraine, that the government never makes temporary decisions. Decisions relating to the monetaryization of subsidies laid down by the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Accordingly, the monetary mechanism of the government is adopted by two decrees: one is cash-free, the other is cash. These mechanisms will continue to exist. Ukraine’s budget is sufficient to provide both cash and cashless subsidies. Thus, both subsidy mechanisms will continue to exist after the heating season. Those people who pay in good faith for housing and utilities, getting living expenses, will continue to be paid without any restrictions. With regard to those in debt, after payment of the debt, because of the fact that the debt cannot be rescheduled, the grant cannot be rescheduled, but after payment of the debt or restructuring of the debt over the course of the year they will be paid a grant in cash - free form. None today. To sum it up and tell you how successful this is, we can give you complete information by July 1, 2019, when the sums of this phase of monetaryization are summarized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u10	Thank you. From the Radical Party to the word, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u11	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I just returned from Strasbourg this evening, where, unfortunately, yesterday the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe voted in favour of a resolution that actually opens the way for the Russian delegation to return to South Africa. And it's actually a prelude to removing the anti-Russian sanctions that end in June. Europeans, who tell us how they are helping Ukraine, still need to learn about hypocrisy and betrayal at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. At a time when millions of Ukrainians are happy and happy to observe a bottle of analysis, the international front of Ukraine loses, and an anti - Russian rematch is actually taking place. I have a question to the government: what did the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do to stop this anti-Russian rematch? In the fairway the initiator of the return of the Russian delegation is Germany and France, who call us their partners, say they are our partners. And they did everything they could to open the door to the Russian delegation in Paris. Did you negotiate with governments?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u12	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u13	Did you negotiate with the governments of Germany and France, or did you make an effort to change the position of Spain, Italy, and other countries whose delegations voted in Paris for the anti - Ukrainian resolution? What is power in these conditions when there is actually a mess in the country, what does it do to protect Ukraine in the international arena? I appeal to the Ukrainians: A nation that is divided loses without a fight, regardless of the election, regardless of the candidate’s analysis. We need to be strong, together to protect.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u14	Thank you. The answer will be in two sections, Oleg Valeriyovich. Thank you for this question, I see your reaction to what has been happening at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And I want to thank all the deputies who are coming in. represent Ukraine, for such a hard enough struggle – both Vladimir Ariev and other deputies. We realize that the situation is very difficult, and every day our enemy uses various techniques to force governments. Not governments, but representatives from other countries to soften their policies with regard to the Russian Federation. I think our position should be more rigid in terms of both executive and legislative power. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs -- we're in constant contact with all our international partners, and believe me, whatever our conversation or any contact, or any work, there's always a place to condemn the aggression of the Russian Federation, increase sanctions and block those hybrid tools they use against Ukraine. And there's always a question on the agenda, both Crimea and Donbas, and our captured boys, and so on. You said it right, this is the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and it's actually a parliamentary tool, and a parliamentary representation. Here the government itself cannot play a special role in this organization, even in other countries’ governments. But at the same time, I stress that we need to strengthen coordination at the interparliamentary level, an intergovernmental level, in order to force the Russians to fulfil all international obligations. The unacceptable presence and participation of the aggressor country in any institution that today advocates international law. I completely agree with that, and our position is firm. If possible, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will comment for 30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u15	Please, who's with the M.E.S.? Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u16	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Oleg Valeriyovich, a perfectly fair question. Thank you for ensuring the continuation of this issue and of Russian provocations both in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and in other international forms in the field of attention of Ukrainian society. In unison with the Ukrainian National Deputies, who have been actively opposed to Russian insinuations and provocations in Strasbourg in recent days, we worked in Brussels. I literally came back tonight from the senior officials of the EU Eastern Partnership initiative, and at this meeting we were preparing arrangements for the 10th anniversary of this big and long-standing European project with regard to partner countries. So at this point in time, the same countries that you just mentioned were trying to convince us that, given the difficult internal political situation in the EU, the elections to the European Parliament, we must silence all that has already been approved by the European Union in relation to Ukraine, namely the NATO Declaration of the Risk Summit on the recognition of the European perspective of Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. What we firmly disagreed with and stood in our positions. I assure you that we will continue in the same spirit and will never agree to a so-called step-back in the position of the European Union in relation to Ukraine. But in this matter, we very much need your active assistance and support, which you are already providing, and I am counting on and will continue to offer diplomatic efforts by Ukraine to counter Russian aggression in all its dimensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u17	Thank you. It is very important and pleasant that there is a common position both for Parliament and for the government against rematch. I just want to tell everyone that not only in Brussels, but in Ukraine, here in our country, we are on the verge of a hybrid rematch when we want all the conquests that Ukraine has made: NATO -- through referendum, culture, language, territory -- by parentheses. And I also have a reference to everyone: what we've done for it, and what we've done for each of us to prevent this rematch from being allowed not in Brussels, but here in Kiev, in the heart of Ukraine. I'd like to invite you to a word from "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u18	Alexei Hotcharenko, Peter Dustenk's Block, Odeshkina. I have a question for the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I'm afraid I don't see the Minister of Internal Affairs, but the representative, I understand, is. And the next question. We've seen that criminal conduct has been opened up about the role that's being distributed on social networks, where a candidate for the president of Greensky's being hit by a car. And it is right, for we must respect the dignity and health of everyone. And here's the question. And what are the open-ended conducts, and how are the role models that Vladimir Zelensky himself shoots the Supreme Council or performs at the funerals of the President? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u19	Your Honor, thank you for asking. I don't know about a criminal case. And if you have a chance, let's go out after the hour of questioning and call, and I think the Chief of Criminal Police will report to us himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u20	From the People's Front, Medunica Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u21	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, the heating season is coming to an end, and unfortunately, we are coming out of this hot season with significant debts to the population for consumed heat and natural gas. In part, such debts were due to the fact that the government’s decision to grant household subsidies had reduced social standards, as well as to problems related to the granting of subsidies to housing where owners could not physically write the registered persons in the apartment. I think that this, and not just me, by the way, and my colleagues think that this decision at the end of the heating season needs to be changed and more rights given to local commissions at local departments and social protection offices to give them the right to settle similar situations and not allow such a significant debt to the population because of this problem with subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u22	Reva, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u23	The Honourable People's Deputy Medunica, the indebtedness of the population, which is particularly gas, is in many ways shaped not by the grant decree, but by the illegal actions of the bribes that ignore the 42 decisions of the NCRECR concerning the illegal overcompensation of the amount of gas that they have arbitrarily contributed to the population, are billions of dollars. As far as the grant decree is concerned. You're right, there's nothing perfect. And at the end of the heating season, the subsidy decree will be amended by the Ministry of Social Policy today, by the way, published for public discussion, a draft regulation on the rights of local authorities to affect the number of registered homes. And such a right is granted to the commissions, and it is clearly set out in the very determination, in the order itself. The problems arise, not in the case of a pen or a statement, but in view of the fact that registered persons live and work abroad, according to recent reports, $14 billion in the past year alone is the official data of the NBA. And those who are in their households do not declare these incomes. And we will never agree to allow this income to be excluded from the total income of the household. I understand very well those who would like to receive more from the budget, but in order to get more from the budget, we need to declare our income honestly or pay taxes to the Ukrainian budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u24	Please, Vladimir Groissman.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear, distinguished Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a distinguished colleague of the national MP! Well, you're probably talking about the town of Sumi. You're talking about the debt of people for hot and hot water. I want to emphasize that the Sumitcomunnergo probably belongs to the City Council of Sumitpelunnergo. And the City Council of Sumu is providing heat services to these citizens. The state created mechanisms for limiting the price of gas for the heat utility, because you heard today that the recent price for industry was 11-12 thousand there, and the government limited the price for TKE 8.50, well, 8,500. In addition, we have created a mechanism for receiving subsidies that are only calculated from the income of the household. That is, if you're a local authority. Moreover, we gave the local authorities the opportunity, the commissions you mentioned, to make decisions to protect everyone. We're not restricting anyone. The system is one thing, but if people have certain living conditions, I always call for people to take sides, make decisions, drag them into the subsidy system. Moreover, the grant system is monetized and will now always appear to be only cash to people. So if the local government sees that they have problems, that maybe not enough of these mechanisms, as a result of decentralization, local budgets have increased by 3, by 5, they can afford to support themselves today by supporting the social program even more by supporting those families that need it, in order to minimize any debt burden. I've always done it. When I saw that there were certain debts to specific people, I always tried, like a city head once, to find and understand what the problem is and to help these people, what I'm calling for local authority. What's the government for? Heat is given by local authorities, hot water is provided by local authorities. The government's already been able to transfer billions through decentralization, we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u26	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u27	30 seconds. What we were able to transfer billions, we passed on, but the local budgets were almost 69 billion in 2014, 270 billion in 2019. 270 billion. And so I need you to, I think, and, including the national MPs, please, get into the local problems and see where there is still a problem that can be solved at the local level. That's decentralization. Thank you very much. And people need to be concerned and concerned and help people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u28	From the Self-Help faction to the word, please invite Elena Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u29	Dear members of the government, you have all seen that on April 1st, the problem of introducing an electricity market in Ukraine was exposed because of the defamation of problems associated with the fact that there are hopeless debtors of electricity in Ukraine. The debtors are government mines, and the debtors are a huge, huge Donbas water company. It's communal, Vladimir Borisovich, as you just said, that city councils should be responsible for something there, some problems, but Donbas Water has 2.4 billion debt for electricity. I would like to ask you, honourable members of the government, do you see the need for a decision made by the Ukrainian National Security Council, the Ukrainian National Security Council, today to bring Donbas Water into a separate, let's say, position for the formation of tariffs and the definition of a debt recovery mechanism for the waters of Donbas? Because you can't translate into local self-government to solve problems, you can't bankrupt Ukriinterenergo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u30	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u31	To bankrupt Ukrinterenergo without solving or keeping quiet about it. And I'm also asking if we're going to see a program of conversion of government mines so that people, when they close these mines, get jobs and don't stay with anything. Also, Borislav, who raised the issue of our faction yesterday in Borislav's environmental security, is also asked to comment on this, perhaps Minister Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u32	Please give Nasalika a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u33	Thank you. Well, first of all, the electricity market had a category of consumers who couldn't pay for it. That's why the PON, the last-hop supplier, was created in the form of the Ukriinterergo, which provided 90 days for those consumers who had no opportunity to pay. I understand that you put the emphasis on water suppliers. Donbas water suppliers. On the basis of Deputy Prime Minister Zubka, a meeting was held where both the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Energy and the head of Donbas water were invited. So it turns out that in 90 days, the electricity consumption accounted for 270 million dollars. Donbasu's water collects 85 million every month. No bracelets are paid for electricity in three months. I would like to point out that no bracelet has been paid! Dear friends, that's not true. If electricity is not paid, then it is not paid for, it is not paid for by coal, it cannot function in such a system by a unified energy system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u34	Thank you. And from Fatherland to the word, Sergey Eutuszek is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u35	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, for days on one of the TV channels, you said that the priority for the government is to build schools at the locations where children are taught in three changes. I just want to ask you a simple question: can you monitor the DFRD situation that's being distributed in the Plains region, because Zepcewich School. More loyally, the village of Tsetzevich, a school where population growth and natural growth predict that 115 children will go to the first class next year. And as the head of the district administration, I started a project for this school, but no one can build anything. Because, to my great conviction, the priority of the DFRD is not your priority, which is not one of the schools that require construction or capital repairs today. So I would very much like to ask you, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, such schools.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u36	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u37	Schools like the village of Ceptsevitch in the Plains region of Sarnen, such a school as the new school, the village of Chabel, where natural growth is very large, such a school as the village of Japoloth needs capital repair, and it is a resilient school in the Kostopil region, to be funded, and it will be the right distribution of the DFR and the right priority. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u38	Thank you so much for your question. The first thing I'd like to say is that the growth of children, birth, is extremely positive. [[Applause]] It's super-class. Because. [[B in m in s a l in]] I absolutely want to emphasize that the Ukrainians should have more, and this is the task of all Ukrainians. And when I hear about the growing number of children, you know, it makes me very happy, it's very good news, and thank God. As far as education is concerned, you said correctly that for me as Prime Minister, education is a priority for our government. In fact, we have formed enough, in our view, a quality system of change in education itself, yes, and perhaps it is not easy, but I am deeply convinced that under the leadership of our Minister of Education and Science, Lilia Mikhailovna, with our full support, we will be able to implement these changes effectively. What is the question? The question is, what do we have to ensure by the 20th year, the elimination of queues in kindergartens is once. Second position. We're going to have to dismantle the school process and move on to the first. For one-change learning. Although we see different areas, and I think in the Plain region 43 percent of children, even more than 97 percent, yes, percent, well, a large percentage, where they learn in the first, in a few changes. In a few changes, a large percentage of the Plains region, I don’t remember for sure, but I remember that it is definitely high. And it's very important to us. Including for us the important change in the system of vocational education, the training of professional personnel. I'm talking about it's the only system. In fact, I was recently in Dnipropetrovsk, and there's a situation quite positive in terms of understanding and the head of the district government.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u39	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u40	and the heads of the district government, and the district team, the need to create infrastructure: schools, gardens. They're now building 23 schools, building and rebuilding 23 schools in the area. This should be an example for other areas. Through the State Regional Development Fund -- and this year all the regional projects from the central budget to the local, with roads and so on, schools and gardens -- we're going to send about 50 billion to support regional projects. As a result, I will examine the DFRD as you speak. And there are 5 key priorities for the DFRD distribution, which includes education, kindergartens and schools. And if these priorities are disturbed by areas, such a DFRD will not be approved. I stress that we should invest in quality of life, in quality of learning, in quality medical services, quality infrastructure, and not in any other questionable projects. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u41	Thank you. Colleagues, this is a question from the National Deputies. Everyone who intends to participate in the discussion by the national MPs is welcome to participate in the record. Please. Now I'm going to give the first word for Irina Heratchenko's question. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am forced to duplicate the question of Honorable colleague Alexi Hotcharenko. I am very sorry that there is no Minister of Internal Affairs here today, Arsen Awakov, because some colleagues have already canonized him and said that he is almost the guarantor of the Constitution. And actually, what I'm saying is that only after the Ministry of Internal Affairs started a criminal case for a video on the Internet did I personally look at it. I welcome the fact that a criminal case has been instituted because we have to fight against the language of hostility. But I want my question now to be seen as a parliamentary address. Whether today a criminal case against the authors and screenwriters of the movie "The Servant of the People" and the performers of the main role in which Parliament is being shot down, and then there are the President's funerals. I want to remind you that Mrs. Savchenko, our colleague, is the only one who thinks she's in detention right now. And actually, so I want to ask the second question. Does this mean that there will be a criminal case for everyone on the Internet now? In principle, we welcome this in order to stop the language of hostility on the Internet. But will it be mirrored? And I ask you to take this as a parliamentary request and get this criminal case today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u43	Irina Volodymyr, let me. Thank you for that. One more time to raise that question. But I would like to remind all the national MPs that the main task of the police is to prevent crime and to prevent crime. And if the investigator has made a decision, you can give us a statement, and I think the National Police will give a legitimate answer. I want you. inform the national MPs that as of 1 January of this year, we have already registered more than 7.5 thousand cases of electoral violations. More than a hundred have already been identified. These cases have been brought to trial. And prevention is the main thing. Maybe that's what the police deserve about them working ahead of time for prevention. So the first round of the electoral process went well, and thank you all for your help.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u44	Please. So, colleagues, I want to point out to you that when the factions asked questions, "The will of the people" didn't sign up, but they're going to ask questions, so I'm going to ask them in 20 minutes, and I'm going to let them ask questions, and then it's going to start for 20 minutes. Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u45	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Vladimir Borisovich, since I was 14 years old, I've been monitoring the use of the Kozatsky Hotel, and I've been asking a lot of MPs. And finally we got an audit report on the use of the hotel. Yeah, well, there's 32 million casualties, the Defense Department's officials have caused damage. To what extent will the Ministry of Defense manage non-profile assets and damage the state? As for those in the hotel, there is a decision to move them to another room and, for example, there will be no problems. To what extent will the plundering and plundering of State property and the destruction of the State continue? Thank you. Please count this as a parliamentary request.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u46	Russian, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. The Honourable People's Deputy, the Honourable People's Deputies, the question of the Cossack Hotel, it's under personal control, it's being dealt with by the Minister of Defense of Ukraine. During that week, there were meetings with a group of national deputies to discuss questions about the Kozatsky Hotel. I'm sure it'll be resolved in an orderly fashion. There are arrangements, so we're counting on a positive solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u48	Thank you. So we start with questions from the national MPs. Silantiev gives the floor to the question of Igor Mosiychuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u49	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I have a question for you directly. Everyone knows that chaos and anarchy are now taking place in the country. Ukrainian peasants suffer most of this. The massive raiding of agricultural enterprises is not surprising at all. Yesterday, in the region of Kiev, in the village of Vilshanska Novoselica, the raiders, headed by the deputy district council of Kiev, Leonid Glignyan, from the "Block of Petra Poroshenko", were captured by an agricultural cooperative. "Tills" peasants beat, the village council took over, and completely people are lying under the technique now, not letting go. I have a question for you. When will the government support and promote our legislative initiatives, the package of our legislative initiatives, Oleg Laska and the Radical Party, the anti-riders who will stop this raid? When will the Ministry of Justice stop looking everywhere in pink glasses at raids in Ukraine, especially in the agrarian sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u50	Thank you so much for your question. First. My attitude towards these so-called aunts, you know, faces in the floor. And I want to tell you that the Head of the National Police of the Prince and the Special Units of the National Police are doing this almost flawlessly. And all of those cases where there's this whole aunt attack, the guns and so on, they're all being put face down, arrested, detained, and the police are acting hard enough here. I want to call on the whole of Ukraine today, first of all, to thank the National Police; and second of all, to call: hard-faced in the floor. In Russian, hard to face. No one has the right to violate the right to private property, or to go out and use force against anyone. This is the first position. Position number two for your initiatives. We have an anti-reriding commission, where the First Deputy Prime Minister works, heads it, and the Minister of Justice. Please make suggestions that you consider to be priority, we will analyze them, and we will gladly support them to increase responsibility in this area. There is full support, I stress, for the Government of Ukraine, Minister of Interior Arsen Awakov in terms of strict order in respect of the rights of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u51	Thank you. The fisherman passes the word for the question of Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u52	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to take this matter under personal control. As a result of the raid by the Kyiv City Authority, more than 500 families of ordinary Ukrainians may be homeless because in the Darnicki district, the Osokorki-Central Kyiv authorities illegally take away from the construction site, there are all the permits, there are construction, there are people paying for apartments, and they want to completely prevent them from getting apartments. It's illegal, it's unfair, it ruins the investment climate in the country, which should be a priority for all branches of government. That's why Oleg Ljashk and our team have registered a draft regulation for the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of these citizens. They're under the Supreme Council today, look, they're holding a rally today. Therefore, they need to be protected. Please assign all powerful structures to deal with this illegal situation, to stop the raid. Legal construction must be completed, and citizens must have their legal residence.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u53	Thank you for asking. Since this applies to the Kyiv City Council, I will look for the results of your formal appeal to the Kiev City Head to Vitali Volodymirovich Klick. And if we have to, we'll see, in parallel to the law enforcement agencies. But I am deeply convinced that turning to the city’s head should be sufficient to make it objectively clear. I don't know the details, I don't know the details of the case, but I'm going to ask you to take a thorough look and make the most of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u54	Thank you. The next Yuzanina and Kozachenko give the floor to Auntie Blackwall. Please, two minutes, Mrs. Tetian.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u55	I have a question for the Secretary of Defense, the Ministry of Defense, not even how many questions, how many questions. This is a very pressing request in the context of today's presidential campaign, because we are electing the President, the Supreme Commander, the defender of Ukraine, the protector of society. And there was alarming information in the media that one of the candidates was not ready to take on the role of protector. The point is that in 2014, Mr. Zelensky, as it were, refused to serve as a protector. And so to hear the answer, the official answer to that question is now extremely important for society. The information must be verified or corrected as soon as possible. That's why I'm passing on this request right now. Again, I want to say that avoiding military duty is a criminal matter. I would also like to hear the question whether it is a crime, if it is true, if it is a criminal case, because it is a crime such as desertion. Thank you for your attention. And now I'm going to pass on the request.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u56	Rusnak, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u57	Thank you for asking. We're going to try to give you an answer to the MP's request today, and we're going to put all the information in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u58	Thank you. Rosenblatt Borislav Solomonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u59	Good afternoon! I have a question for the Prime Minister, Mr. Groysman. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, April 14, 2016, your government was elected. Please tell us in three years, everyone, well, practically our achievements and perhaps your shortcomings at work. This is the only question that concerns many of our people today, the electorate. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u60	It's a very deep question. I mean, in two minutes, you won't answer. In fact, Sunday will be three years before our government was elected. And I think Ukrainian citizens know very well and understand how difficult these three years have been. But as we have lived, we know that it is now important how the country will live on. And then it has to live in very clear priorities: in terms of economic growth, increasing the quality of life of people, changing the system, establishing an effective system of government management and capital rehabilitation of the country that we're working on. We will definitely need the support of the Ukrainian Parliament. So I think it's interesting just ahead. Thank you so much for your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u61	Buglak Yuri Aleksandrovitch gives the floor to Deputy Vitek.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u62	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished government officials! I want to speak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I am addressing you with a very challenging situation. The situation that took place in the educational complex of the village of Nova Sanjari Poltava district, which was at the border of closure. There are about 900 children and 140 teachers. The school lacks a million and a half dollars to cover its mandatory expenses by 2019. The school's O.T.A. balance sheet has not been taken yet, and the district budget has no funds, such funds. These funds are needed for the salaries of technical workers, for utilities, and so on. I always know that you support children's issues and education. Please encourage the provision of funds to support a school in New Sanjar so that our children do not stay on the streets. I know you won't leave the children alone. Thank you for your attention. We see who supports the oligarchs and who really supports the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u63	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Give your address, we will see, because the distribution of expenses takes place through either the council district or the unified local community. Maybe it's not so much about money as it is about money being redistributed between these budgets. Pass, we're working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u64	Nemirovsky Andry Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u65	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, good afternoon! Please explain how in the rule of law the Cabinet of Ministers allowed massive violations of the current legislation of Ukraine on the issue of pension insurance for military personnel and some others as a result of the adoption by the Government of Decree 103. Their pensions have been significantly reduced since the recalculation, and they've been sent "happy letters" about the supposed increase in pension benefits since January 1st, 19th. By the way, paragraphs 1, 2 of this regulation are significantly invalid. I have a question. How will the government organize this issue at a national level? And why is there no execution of court decisions on behalf of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u66	Please, Reva.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u67	Dear National Deputy Nemirowski, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the very government you are now criticizing was the initiator, the initiator of the increase in pension benefits for our military. And at a time when the increase for all citizens of Ukraine as a result of the pension reform was on average about 500 dollars, a decision was taken by the government early in 2018 to step up the pension for military personnel and other representatives of the force. So this first-stage increase, since January 1, 18th, averaged 1,500 dollars, from January 1, 2019 -- over 750 dollars extra, and from January 1, 20 -- even more than 750 dollars. In this way, the pension security has to step up the pensions of our forces by half. Unfortunately, we can't say this about increasing the pensions of civilians, because the possibilities of the Pension Fund are not what we want. But the rate of increase in the pensions of military personnel is much higher than the increase in the pensions of civilians. I understand what I would like more, but more is possible only if there are adequate financial opportunities. The government does not suffer from populism, and all its actions are in line with the possibilities of the State budget and the Pension Fund that are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u68	Thank you. Bebakh Jakovyk Jakovitch gives the speech to Michael Golovk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u69	Thank Jacob Besbah for the word. Mikhailo Golovko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte. I have a question for Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich. Are you familiar with the Derjaudit Service, which made a report on the activities of the Ukratransgaz Stock Company, which in the years 17-18, suffered losses only in the 17th year -- 24 billion dollars, and in the 18th year -- almost 30 billion dollars. And I'm surprised that after such damage, and this stockholder society is in the structure of the Naftogazu NAC, which is causing this huge damage to the state. And after that, an official like Koboljev, the Supervisory Board once again appoints and agrees. Why can't you disband this Supervisory Board, which covers the state's massive damage, drive state-owned enterprises into bankruptcy, instead of assigning themselves huge wages and space bonuses, without any increase in natural gas production, leaving Ukraine still dependent on imports, without diminishing the government's policy of reducing natural gas consumption. How, then, can such officials be left in office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u70	Thank you for asking. The National Shareholder Company is essentially a monopoly, and I think you know my absolutely hard-core position with regard to this monopoly. Because in my opinion, the national company should not only pursue profits but also perform other important public functions. In April months, the deadline for a report under the Act on Shareholder Associations of Supervisory Councils, and all the materials you just mentioned, they'll also be analyzed by the government to make the right decisions, and that's our principle position. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u71	Thank you. Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich. My friend's not in the hall, is he? Then please, Wesselova. He's giving us a word for Hani Gopko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u72	Good afternoon, sir, to the head of the government and to the government! I have a very important question. I wanted the country to take a little bit away from the analysis and think about our future. Please tell me, what is the government's plan if the gas contract is not signed by 2020, and Russia will stop the supply and transit of gas to Ukraine, and will gas the EU countries from the European Union gas shelters? We have the technical possibilities of pumping gas out of the repository if the Russian gas is not transported at all if there is such a plan from Russia? And the second. When will the amendments to Appendix 27 to the Association Agreement to enhance cooperation in the gas sector be passed on to Parliament, which should be ratified immediately? The European Union has agreed on its side and is waiting for Ukraine. So I think that on the question of North Stream 2 building, Ukraine should already have a plan "B" and call the PNB meeting to have a decent answer to the Kremlin and its fraudulent plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u73	Thank you for asking. With regard to the changes to the agreement, we have literally recently received the European Commission's decision on this issue, and we are now working on internal procedures to increase energy integration between Ukraine and the European Union. As for, if you know, this is one of the four priorities that we announced during the summit that took place at the end of December. By the end of November of the month. It is clear to us that Russia will continue to use all the possibilities to block the operation of the Ukrainian gas transport system. We have to do everything we can to meet European legislation and to be fully integrated into the energy system, so we need to go through the certification process. When we made a new contract with the company's management, we set very strict conditions for the continuation of the transit contract or the continuation of transit. For certification under European legislation of Ukraine's own gas transport system. defined as a key performance indicator. And, of course, there's a plan "B" in case Russia gets to other things. Although the question is very difficult, it is not easy. And I think NAC, the Naftogaz of Ukraine, its management, they're far enough behind. on the implementation of the plan approved by the Government for the separation of the gas transport system into a separate legal structure that would comply with European legislation approved by the Ukrainian Government on 1 July 2016. Accordingly, here is a question for which we will also ask the management for failure to perform the tasks set by the government. Thank you so much for your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u74	Thank you. Colleagues and concluding questions. Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich gives the floor to the question of Spiowakovsky. Please, Singerkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u75	Good afternoon, fellow Volodymyr Borisovich! As you know, on April 10th, we and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, together with the Ukrainian Ministry of Education and Science, held parliamentary hearings on the subject of "A balanced development of human capital." I want to thank you first. Too bad Minfin didn't announce his position, I think it's important at such parliamentary hearings. Now we're done working on the materials. There will be serious recommendations made together. Vladimir Borisovich, I'm asking you to look very carefully at all the materials, because they are made and together with the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, along with Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich, along with Mert. And we'd like to get absolutely specific answers there. Young people expect a scholarship. Young people are waiting for us to look at the wages of our preschool teachers. These are key questions, because when there's a pay gap between teachers two times less than the police, it's not normal. So the question is, do you think you can find solutions to these problems and still take into account the things that will be recorded in parliamentary hearings? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u76	Alexander Volodymyrovich, thank you so much for the questions asked. Clearly, there are public hearings and recommendations of public hearings. Of course we will. Parliamentary, sorry, we will certainly consider them in order to work. Our priority is one -- there must be an appropriate level of education provision, both access to education and a decent pay for the work of education workers. And you know, for me, it's an empty word, and for the minister of education, too, for the government as a whole. So what did we do? Since January 1st, 17th, we've raised the salary of Ukrainian teachers by 50 percent, then by 25 percent. Is that enough? No, but this is one of the biggest steps, probably since our independence to raise wages right in education. Then this year, 20 percent for scientific personnel, that is, us. Science-pedagogical, that is, we're moving. The only limit we have is the ability of the Ukrainian budget. Because we've heard about pension issues today, subsidies support issues, infrastructure projects and so on. And there has to be a reasonable balance. But one of the key priorities is to finance and pay, including the financing of salaries for those education workers who are financed from local budgets. So for me it's the immediate problems absolutely, and they're on the order of the day. And we're ready to look for ways to solve them in the future. Thank you so much for your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u77	Thank you. So "the hour of questions to the government" is over. We thank Prime Minister Groissman and the members of the government for the dialogue in the Hall. Thank you. And, dear fellows, I remind you, we have a recess application, but before that, I'm going to make a brief announcement. Dear colleagues, today, April 12th, the 107th birthday is celebrated by the oldest and most numerous youth organization Plast, the National Scout Organization of Ukraine. And I want all of us to welcome our canvasses to this big event. [[Applause]] At the most difficult moment in our history, when Russian aggression began, hundreds of Plast children volunteered to the front. Five plastics gave their lives in the fight for Ukraine on Donbassa. They have our eternal memory and eternal glory! Now they're in the sky, holding a plastic watch over Ukraine. Congratulations to Plast Day! S.H.I.E.L.D.! Welcome, fellows! Now, I remind you, we have a statement from two factions for recess. And, colleagues, from the Opposition Block, Rebirth, Pisarenko, are you speaking? Welcome to Valery Pisarenko's speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The third week ended with Parliament’s work on the Language Law. We offer three weeks of advice on how to show respect for people living in Ukraine. More than 130 nationalities living in our territory today cannot understand why parliament, which unfortunately has the lowest level of trust in society, today wants to impose on all spheres of social life the obligation to speak only one language. And if this was a matter of the public sector, we would probably not be criticizing, not making proposals, but everyone would immediately take and vote, because the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court to discuss article 10 of the Constitution made it clear that, indeed, in the State sector, the State sets out the obligation to speak in Ukrainian, to use Ukrainian. But if you look at it further, article 10 of the Constitution speaks of one thing: the state ensures the functioning of the national language, and in all spheres of life it promotes Ukrainian language, but it guarantees that Russian language, other languages in Ukraine are used freely in all spheres of social life. What does that mean? Respect for people means that you will not ask them, in what language he speaks in a café, in restaurants if he went out to have coffee with his colleagues. And in this law, if it's approved in this paper, we're once again being lied to: we've been cleared of inspectors, but in fact all authority has been passed on to the Authorized for the protection of the state language, which will control all spheres (both state and non-state) and come and see what language they speak there. If, for God's sake, the waiter in the wrong language says something in the cafe, then fine. What kind of discipline is formed that will follow the language of the people? So if we don't want to have structures that will be tougher than the Attorney General, and people will be happy to go to work with them, because they will control everything, then we need to send this bill to read again, and make it feel that Parliament respects the electorate, respects the people who live in this country and want to see it flourish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u79	Thank you, Your Honor, for the performance. Dear colleagues, now, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have time to announce the parliamentary requests. The presidency received 203 requests from Ukrainian national deputies. And now the colleagues are asking if we have time to announce speeches by those national MPs who are not satisfied with the answers that came to their previous questions. My colleagues, I want to inform you right away that we're going to call it a 12-hour break if we can get to 202 requests early, 203 requests, of course, and we're going to have time. If not, I ask you to respect the fact that we have to announce a recess at 12 o'clock. Okay? Thank you for understanding. And I'm starting to ask questions. So questions came, including the President of Ukraine. As you know, when you look at the President's motions, first there's a name vote in favour of the question. So the request to the President of Ukraine. Svetlana Zalishtuk to the President of Ukraine on the grounds for the lifting of sanctions against individual legal persons under the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of March 19, 19th, imposed by Presidential Decree No. 82/2019. Please, Your Honor, support the request. [[11:16:34]] For 20 There is no potential, only 20 national deputies supported the request. So let's move on. Viktor Razwadowski, head of the Zitomir District State Administration, to provide students of the Singapore Interschool Training and Production Unit in the village of Singura, Zitomir district, with training and equipment for computer set operators. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the provision of material assistance to Lavrenjuk Mikola Pavlovich, an ATO participant in the village of Volosovka in the area of Žitomir district for the endoprosthesis of ball joints. Borislav Rosenblatt to the Prime Minister for the establishment of a population of individual natural gas counters at the expense of the gas distribution company. Borislav Rosenblatt to head the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, head of the National Commission, which regulates state energy and municipal services on possible violations of the requirements of current legislation on the part of the gas distribution company. Tetjana Crnovil to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine, Poltorak, and Deputy Attorney - General of Ukraine, Chief Military Prosecutor Matios, for the conduct of a review of the circumstances associated with the dismissal of the term military service to the Ukrainian Armed Forces of Ukrainian citizen Zelenski. Helen Sotnik to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration for the definition of a list of candidates from Ukraine to replace the European Court of Human Rights judge. Helen Sotnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine for information on the release of pretrial investigation materials from criminal prosecution No.12013220540000400. Dmitry Lubinz to the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine regarding the financing of liaison arrangements with foreigners living abroad. Michael Bondar to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of verifying the objectivity of criminal investigation since 10 November 2017, on the basis of the fact that employees of law enforcement agencies in the Lviv region were abused in the investigation of criminal conduct on the basis of the fact that land was self-employed. Michael Bondar to the head of the Popovatsk Rural Council on the agreement between the land boundaries on the territory of the Popovatsk Rural Council. Vladislav Buharev to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior, Henprocuror for the possible misconduct of individual officials of Pat "Sumigaz" and the need to ensure the stable functioning of the gas distribution system of the Sumi district. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on the settlement of the matter of the restructuring of the State institution "The Ukrainian Scientific and Scientific Research Institute of the Name Illy Mechenkov of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine". Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Human Rights Council Commissioner for Human Rights on monitoring and generalizing the results of the analysis of public facts, including public statements containing signs of discrimination, incitement to hostility and hatred, as well as other human rights violations, on the part of President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine in his public activities. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Prime Minister for the use of central authorities of the executive branch of urgent measures against public expression, which contain signs of discrimination, incitement to hostility and hatred, as well as other human rights violations, on the part of Vladimir Zelensky in his public activities. Eugene Deja, head of the Ukrainian State Treasury Service for the protection of the rights and freedoms of the citizen of Viktor Bondarevski, who was violated by the failure of the responsible officials of the State Treasury Service to execute a court decision that entered into force. Dmitry Golubov to the Attorney General on the opposition to the seizure of state and private property. Mary Ionova and Irina Heratschenko, head of the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio talk about the use of measures to prevent the use of radio organizations to spread public statements that contain signs of discrimination, incitement to hostility and hatred, and other human rights violations by Vladimir Zelensky. Olesia Long to the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine for the provision of passenger passenger passenger services by car. Mustafi Nyem to the Attorney General for information on the commission of a crime in the Single State Register of Investigative Investigations. Mustafa Nayem to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the list of persons who should not be prosecuted. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister on non-compliance and non-compliance with the requirements of section 12, paragraph 4, of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities, of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, on the conclusion of a contract with the Director-General of the State Institute of the Heart of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Boris Todorov. Dmitry Sphenov to the Minister of Justice for the settlement of individual issues of notary activity. Maxim Burbak to the minister of education for the provision of computer technology and Internet access to education facilities in the region. Sergey Melnika to the Minister of Education and Science for the provision of electronics to the Director of Hmelnicke Professional Professionals of the Ministry of Education and Science. Irina Konstankevitch to the Minister of Education and Science on the fulfilment of the requirements of the Education Act of Ukraine on ensuring the availability of a certain, complete general secondary education. Irina Konstanovic to the Prime Minister for the cost of work from the electricity supply of residential arrays for participants in the ATO (OOS). Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister for the payment of the work of a mid-level medical staff working in a rural area. Vladimir Aresonkova is a minister of finance for the financing of sanatorium treatment for citizens classified as Category 1 and children with disabilities whose disability is associated with the Chernobyl disaster. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Public Shareholders Association "Krupposta", the National Police, the State Forest Resources Agency, the State Agency for Road Traffic, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Bio-Hungarian Rural Council of Kyivo-Swiatoshin district, the Kyiv City Administration, the Kyivoblanergo District District District Administration, the Public Shareholder Society, the Mikolai Town Council on the need for effective measures to provide adequate housing and utility services in various regions of Ukraine. Alexander Kirsch to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services on the Crimes of Officials of the Regional Gas Company Pat "Harkovmiskgas" by refusing to establish individual gas counters in Kharkiv. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Žitomir Observatories for operational cardiological intervention and treatment and provision of medicines at the expense of budgetary resources. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Zitomir government for operational cardiological intervention, treatment and provision of medicines at the expense of budgetary resources. Savchenko's hopes for the head of the Qualifications and Disciplinary Commission of Prosecutors, Henprocurorate for the conduct of a service investigation into the existence of legal grounds, as well as for determining the reasons for obtaining the right to free use of two residences (apartments) in Kiev, located in the elite areas of Kiev, Bannik Alexandr Sergiyovich, who is the procurator of the politically motivated and fabricated Ukrainian Attorney General's Office for the prosecution of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Savchenko Nada Viktorovni. Jury Pavlenko to First Deputy Prime Minister of Economic Development for information on implementation in Ukraine of international assistance projects on the protection of children's rights. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Education, the First-Traven City Head, the head of the Dnipropetrov district government to ensure that the rights of the child are respected with special educational needs. Romana Macola to the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association, the minister of infrastructure to preserve the labour force and prevent the reduction of the employees of the Locomotive Shepetovka depot in the process of reforming the PAT "Ukrzaliznica". Romana Macola, until the temporary duty of Minister of Health, head of the Hmelnick district government, to provide urgent medical care for the treatment of a young child with cancer. Taras Batenka to the Minister of Education about the allocation of funds from the state budget reserve fund for the capital work of repairing the roof of the teaching corps, the laboratory and the student dormitory of the Novorozdil Political College. Artema Witka to the Prime Minister on the need to fund the educational complex in the New Sanjara region of Poltava, which is 1.5 million dollars. Paul Kishkar to the prosecutor of the Kyiv region regarding the return of the land Maxima Polakov to the Prime Minister for the elimination of powers by officials of the Ministry of Health, which has caused significant damage to the state system of higher health education. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister on the illegal actions of officials that have led to the concealment of the Single List of Dual-Use Goods exported and temporarily exported from Ukraine and information on the use to avoid access to this information to the public. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister on the need for an additional grant to cover the cost of salaries for educational, health and social workers in the Voddarski, Stavishtenski, Tarostian, Tetiyev regions of the Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District Administration for the allocation of funds from the district budget of the Kyiv Region for the repair of the sports and museum complex of the Lord's Professional Agrarian List. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, in order to hold consumers accountable for illegal gas accounting. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Prime Minister for the protection of the rights of parents who are natural entrepreneurs according to the Programme for Compensation of the Cost of Developing Children's Groups, Children's Gardens and Other Learning Programmes. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Affairs on the need to improve the Government's program "Municipal Care." Jacob Bezbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of Regional Development, Ministry of Internal Affairs, National Police, Nazbank, Henproktoratura, Dniprow City Council, Dnipropetrov District State Administration on the need to take effective measures to protect the rights of investors affected by the construction of a residential building, addressed: Dnipro City, Gethmanska Street, 7. Vasila Petyovka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the removal of obstacles to the treatment activities of the Sanatorium "Polyana" of the Svalava region of Zakarta. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister for the implementation of the actions of the Public Target Program "Drinking Water of Ukraine" for the 11-20 years. Dmitri Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister for the efficient use of environmental tax revenues. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Shinkovič to head of the Hmelnicki Road Service in the Hmelnicki Region for the installation of a light - light - light object in the village of Shatava Dunajewecki district of Hmelnicki on the international route N-03 Zitomir-Chernivtsi. Mr. Alexander Gerega and Mr. Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister, head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of the tariff of mobile operators’ services. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister on the need to ensure continuous work management and social protection of the population of the Lower Town Council of the Chernig region. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Education and Science on the urgency of ensuring the right to general secondary education. Igor Goose to Deputy Prime Minister Paul Rosenck, Minister of Social Policy on the need for immediate approval The procedure for issuing a certificate of the established model for UN and UPA veterans in relation to the granting them the status of participants in hostilities. Igor Goose to the head of the Supreme Council Committee on Tax and Customs Policy on the need to review Bills No. 9518 and 9519 aimed at simplifying the clearing and taxation of foreign registration cars. Oleg Kulinić to the Pension Fund for Child Retirement in connection with the loss of a breadwinner Valery Pisarenko to the Head of the Supreme Council on the restoration of the rights of former workers in the internal affairs of Ukraine and their families. Valery Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for the abolition of the reduction of the state social standards used for the defined amount of the subsidy. Natalia Weselova to the Head of the BSS about not being satisfied with the reply to the MP's appeal about the activities of the local Karlovy V.T.A. – Society with limited responsibility for the radio association "Contact". Natalia Weselova to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for failing to implement the decision of the Kiev City Council of 15 November 2018 No 47/6098 "On first-line measures of principle improvement in the quality of housing services and the effective mechanism for monitoring and providing these services in a timely and comprehensive manner". Igor Popov to the Cabinet of Ministers for the establishment of a single approach to the formation of public policy to pay for work in the state sector. Alexander Gorbunov to the Minister of Education for the National University of Dnipropetrov. Svetlana Zalitschuk to the Minister of Defense regarding receiving the Ministry of Defense funding from the company "Roshen". Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister, temporarily acting Minister of Health, head of the Ravenna District State Administration on the need for an organization and the placement of an emergency medical care facility in the territory of the Starosil United Territorial Society of the Rocky Region. Igora Lucenka to the Prime Minister, the head of the Supervisory Board of Stockholders of Naftogaz Ukraine, for the opportunity to become acquainted with the terms of the contracts concluded in 2014 and 2019 with the head of the PAT National Stock Company Naftogaz Ukraine, Andri Koboljev. Igora Lucenka to Deputy Henprocuror, Chief Military Prosecutor, for the improper conduct of an investigation. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister on the need to take action on the implementation of paragraph 2 of the Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 22 of 11 January 2018 on the increase in the salaries of teachers. Tetjana Ostrikova to the executive responsibility of the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for systemic violations in the activities of TV "Primium Package GMBH & CO.KH". Ostrikov’s aunts are under the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service to provide information on the owners of the premises in which customs duties of customs officers of the DFS function. Sergey Rudika is under the responsibility of the Smilian City Head to hold a moon in Smila City with the well - being of children’s playgrounds and sports grounds, with the well - being of their respective territories. Sergia Rudika to the Kamyan City Head of the Cherka region on the status of implementation of the Regional Development Project "The construction and setting up of the Tsamin Canyon tourism facility in Kamyanka, Cherkas region", which is implemented on the basis of the funds received from the European Union in the implementation of the Agreement on the Financing of the Sectoral Policy Support Programme – Support for Ukraine's Regional Policy. Vadim Krivohatka to the head of the National Police, Attorney General, on the possibility of abuse of office by the leadership of the Vilnius District State Administration of the Zaporozhye Region. Vadim Krivohatka to Minister of Environment and Natural Resources for Systemic Violations of Environmental Law. Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Social Affairs for the consideration of the proposal of the head of the City of Nicopola for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Commercial Reporting of Heat and Water Supply. Victor Vuka to the head of the Court of Auditors for bringing the activities of the Court of Auditors into conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine and the legislation of Ukraine. Victor Wolfe to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources for the Possible Coverage of Environmental and Corruption Crimes by Officials of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine. Jury Bublika to Vice-Prime Minister – Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing for the violation of the rights of the residents of the dormitory on Mountage Street, House 4, in Poltava by refusing to transfer his owner to municipal property, encouraging them to evict them through the disconnection of engineering networks and bringing the building into an uninhabitable state. Jury Bublika to the acting minister of agrarian politics and food, the head of the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy, temporarily fulfilling the duties of the head of the Poltava People's Ministry of Mass Cessation of the PAT "Poltavablanergo" electricity supply in a residential building on the street of the Sky of Sotno in Poltava because of the debt of the DP "The Poltava Combine of Blonde Products", a violation of the rights of residents by continuing to ignore their complaints about its restoration. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister on the need for urgent measures to allocate additional budgetary resources to ensure the treatment of patients with progressive Musculoskeletal Dystrophy Duchen. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Secretary of the Security and Defence Council, Director-General of the Ucroborprom State Concert, Defence Minister for Information on the situation in Ukraine with the production, import and export of arms and military supplies. Mikhail Golka to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Prime Minister, for the provision of information on debt for housing services. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Social Policy, head of the Lviv district government, on the issue of the movement of persons with disabilities in the 2nd group of eyesight in suburban and intercity transport. Andrija Lopushanski and Ruslan Demchak to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy on the status of implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of December 28, 14th, No. 76-III, Presidential Decree of Ukraine of July 5, 18th, No. 196/2018, and other legal instruments relating to the social protection of affected persons as a result of the Chernobyl disaster and the restoration of their social guarantees. Ruslana Demchak and Alexander Revega, head of the Zitomir Observatories, head of the Vinnitsky observatories for the financing of the repair of the T-06-06 Berdichov-Ilinzi road under a subsidy from the state budget to local budgets for the financing of construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of roads of general use in the 19th year. Ruslan Demczak until acting as Health Minister, director of the Department of Health of the Vinicka observatories, on the need for immediate care of patients with cancer and oncohematological diseases in the Vinicka region with Leikeran. Alexander Villkull to the Prime Minister, the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association, for the non-closure of the Locomotive Depo of Shepetovka in Shepetovka, Hmelnicka District, which provides jobs for a large number of residents of this city and the area and for the non-pleasion of the employees of this company. Oksana Bilozer to the head of the board of the Universal Bank stock company to facilitate settlement of the credit service agreement made by Pat Universal Bank of Orizon T.O. Alexia Goncharenko to the head of the Ukrainian National Police, Henprocurorate for the personal review of criminal conduct and for the conduct of pretrial investigations into the leaders of the Savaransk, Odessa region of the Paradise and the Rajad administration, whose activities in connection with the acquisition of the budget of two orphanages are evidenced by the crime provided for in article 364 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on Abuse of Power or Service. Andrea Illenka to the head of the Kiev City Administration for the capital repair of a residential building on 10th Street in the Dniprov district of Kyiv. Andrea Illenka to Deputy Prime Minister of Regional Development, Deputy Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the National Police Department in Kiev, Head of State Fiscal Service in Kiev, Head of the Kiev City Public Administration for the illegal operation of slot machines in the right-wing and Dniprov district of Kiev. Borislava Bereza is under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to ensure that medical care is provided to the residents of the Righteous District of Kiev. Jury Miroshnicka to the National Bank of Ukraine on the appeal of a citizen of Raisa Borscheva regarding the numbering of the ATB "Privatbank" fines for a loan that exceeds his body by tens of times. Jury Miroshnitzka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Bureau of Investigation, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the request of a lawyer, Constantine Bilzán, to verify the legality of his criminal prosecution and the improper investigation of a number of other criminal conducts. Paul Djublik, head of the State Geology and Geology Service, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, on the violation of legislation on nadra and environmental protection. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes to the legal regime for the administration and use of land in the territory of the National Village of the United Territorial Society of the Žitomir Region. Sergey Ljowczina to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to resist the rapid increase in measles disease. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian President's Administration, Commissioner of the Supreme Council for Human Rights, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Henprocuror of Ukraine on violations of the rights and freedoms of a citizen and obstacles to the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Oleg Osuhovski, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Veterans and Persons with Disabilities, first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Administration of the President of Ukraine, Head of the Equality District Council, Head of the Equality Authority on Social Justice. Jury Wozniak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the financial provision of families who adopt children or have different forms of parenting for foster children. Jury Wozniak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the insufficient level of government subsidies for socio-economic compensation for the risks of the population living in the observation zone. Artur Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the renewal of the benefits and compensation payments to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, Minister of Social Policy on the need for adoption of "The manner in which internally displaced persons receive social benefits that have not been paid in the past period". Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister for the resolution of the situation that has arisen around the Kharkiv National Academy of Opera and the Mikli Lisenka Ballet and for the failure to take action that hinders the proper functioning and development of the theatre. Roman Semenacha to a member of the government who temporarily exercises the authority of the board of stockholders to provide information on the state of implementation of the Concept for the Development of the Gas Sector of Ukraine AT "The Crushing". Jury Timoshenko is under the executive responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service for the arrest of a means of transport. Jury Timoshenko to the Director of the Department of State Executive Services of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine for the enforcement of the court's decision. Jury Derevyanka to the executive responsibility of the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine to clarify the possibility, basis and order of attracting the owners of vehicles with foreign registration to the responsibility for the commission of the offence provided for in article 470 of the Ukrainian Customs Code. Andrija Šinkovič, Alexander Gerega, to the minister of culture for the restoration of some architectural monuments of the Hmeljna Region, the palace of the princes of Sangushkov in the city of Iszaslav and the building of the former palace assembly and the estate of Potocki in the village of the city type Antonina Krasilów district. Jury Lewchenk to the head of the National Police, the Attorney General, for the submission of information to the Single Register of Judicial Investigations on the commission of a criminal offence through the organization of electoral bribery in the Shevchenkov district of Kyiv and the immediate termination of the respective bribery centres. Jury Levchenka to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine for the submission of information to the Single Register of Judicial Investigations concerning the commission by the Kyiv City Head of Vitaly of a Criminal Offence, provided for in part two of article 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (illegal leases to the land area). Sergey Lechchenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the replacement of the cover over the subway crossing at the street of Natalia Zhvij and the avenue of truth in Kiev. Alexander Suprunenka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Kyiv City Head, for the introduction of a business activity that operates in the Dniprov district of Kiev, in accordance with environmental legislation. Igor Alekseyev to the Prime Minister for the creation of a comfortable transport connection for residents of the Kyiv region. Igor Alekseieva to the city of Kiev for the proper maintenance of the road to the general use of the state value T-10-27 Kyivskilce. Sergia Dunayeva to the Prime Minister, Minister of Energy, Head of the National Television and Radio Broadcasting Board, Minister for Temporaryly Occupied Areas for the Renewal of Electrical Power Supply of Radio, Radio and Television in the Lugansk Region. Paul Kishkar to the Minister of Justice regarding the improper conduct of cases by the private notary of Kharkiv City Notary Angelina Degtharova. Mikhail Doubenk to the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association's board of directors to resolve the situation with the regular disruption of train schedules through the "Kyiv-Johno-Frankiv-Kyiv" connection. Igor Kotwiecki to the head of the National Police on measures to combat deforestation, self-incineration, and destruction of vegetation. Jurya Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the removal from office of the head of the State Service of Ukraine on the work of Roman Montenegro. Edward Matviyczuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction, Odessa City Council, Odessaza Public Shareholder Society, Odessaza Odessa District Public Administration for an objective review of the appeal of pensioners and veterans living in the Kyiv district of Odessa to provide assistance in the free installation of individual gas meters in their apartments. And Eduard Matviychuk to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Kyiv District State Administration, the Kyiv City State Administration, on the need for a comprehensive response to the request of the Kyiv district resident Lavrishko Catherine to provide material assistance for the continuation of comprehensive treatment and rehabilitation of her two minor children and comprehensive social protection. Dear colleagues, I've completed the announcement of the MP's request. We have 15 minutes left for those Ukrainian national deputies who are dissatisfied with the answers they have received. I'll be handling these documents for a minute, if you don't mind. And in fact, we have just three Ukrainian national deputies who are registered on this list, who are dissatisfied -- yes. Please welcome Hopeko Hanna Mikolayevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u80	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I would like to say that on March 1st she sent a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the danger of destroying the unique nature of the Dniester Canyon. But I did not get an answer to the questions that were essentially raised. Despite the position of the Ministry of Nature and Publicity, the government approved the Hydropower Development Programme in 2016 until 2026, which includes the construction of a six-GES stunt in the Dniestrów Canyon. The project will destroy the Dniester’s natural habitat at a distance of 220 km, with disastrous consequences for the unique natural cultural heritage of the Dniestrów Canyon. Despite the decision of the ombudsmen and the local communities about the inadmissibility of the project, the unanimity of environmentalists is spending millions of dollars on preparation for construction. We call on the Prime Minister, ask him to initiate changes to the program and refuse to build new GES on the Dniester. A letter came from the Prime Minister about a month ago that was sent to the Ministry of Energy for processing. And no more answers were received from the Prime Minister or Minneergo. In the last days, we have seen some disturbances. On April 5, the Ukrainian-Moldov-Dniester Commission decided to suspend the operation of the GES building on the Dniester. And yesterday, there was also an important decision: The President of Ukraine signed 11 decrees to extend the natural-invention areas by 80,000 hectares. Ecologists have already christened this historic decision, "Tomos for Nature." We expect the decrees to be published, but we very much hope that among them there will be a long-awaited expansion of the boundaries of the National Park of the Dniestrovsky Canyon, which will finally put outside the law an attempt to build the GES in the Canyon. In part, I would like to say and thank Ostap Ednak, the people's deputies, thank the environmentalists, thank Ostap Semerak, thank the minister, and thank the President for signing 11 decrees. Because this decision is one step closer to the environmental standards of the European Union, where conservation areas cover 15 percent of the territory. And if you reach that target by 2021, as planned by the government, both environmentalists and government officials, and the President need to triple their pace. So, back to the text of my request to the government and their write-off, I urge the government to finally abandon the construction of GES in the Dniestrów Canyon, including removing all mentions of them from the Hydropower Development Programme until 2026 and other government documents. Thanks to environmentalists and those who care about the environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u81	Thank you. And please welcome Sergey Lechchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u82	Dear citizens of Ukraine, I will break my speech into two parts. The first part is the story of Poltava. I've just been seeing citizens on my way out, and I've been talking to the teenage family, who died in a terrible road accident that hit Poltava. Artem Lewchenko took a walk on a bicycle and was beaten by an outcast, and for two months he was in a coma and died. And unfortunately, the acquittal of law enforcement agencies, their inaction, has led me to believe that I have serious reasons to believe that guilty persons can avoid punishment, and by their questions, and by appeals, have tried to intervene in this situation in order for justice to be established. And the answers don't satisfy me. We will continue to keep this situation under control. In turn, I urge the authorities of justice to be impartial in spite of all the pressures that may be exerted on them. Now, part two of my speech, because I'm not doing so often and I'm taking the opportunity to talk about another topic. It refers to the impact of oligarchs on the Ukrainian economy and, in particular, Victor Medvedczuk's influence on the market that we all use is the diesel market. You know that diesel is the fuel that millions of families use, the industrial enterprises, the Crucifixion, our army uses. And to date, 40 percent of this fuel imports are made through the Medvedchuk - related structures. To that end, they took into their own hands the key asset they had at the time of the dusty rule. This is a diesel pipeline that used to belong to Russian structures, then came to Ukraine, but by the decision of our sales judges it was transformed into a Swiss firm installation. And what happened next? And then, in the premonition of a change of power that will inevitably take place in 10 days, the structures associated with Medvedchuk transformed this asset into a Belarusian enterprise called the Naftobitum plant, which is registered in one of the villages of the Minsk region. What's interesting about this story is that this Naftobitum factory, which now owns our key asset, which allows to control the market of all diesel fuel in Ukraine, is this Belarusian enterprise, not too long ago, literally 3 months ago, another Ukrainian authority, the Ukrainian State Property Fund withdrew from the Centrenerego privatisation competition. Why? Because it turns out that there's a letter from the Ukrainian Security Service, which is followed by a letter from the company "The Naftobitum plant" is controlled by Russia. The State Property Fund has officially warned of this. But despite the fact that there is such a BAF position, even though the State Property Fund had previously banned this plant from buying a Centrenergo, now another sub-controllable Dust Authority of the Antimonopoly Committee has allowed our diesel pipe to be transformed into this enterprise. And in this way we actually put the whole diesel market in Ukraine into Russia's hands. It's happening now, in the time of Dusty, who says it's coming out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u83	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u84	Thank you. This is happening right now when the current president tells us in all the stands that he's the last one to protect Ukraine from Russian aggression and Russian influence. I won't mention what he forgot to include in Rotenberg's sanctions lists, and Rotenberg's enterprises are now controlling the market for nitrogen fertilizers in Ukraine with Firtash. I'm not going to mention that sanctions were taken from the Transnistrian Metallurgical Plant, which is under the control of the Alysher Usmanov family and its associates.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u85	Please welcome National Deputy Igor Shurma. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u86	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, today all in the electoral process, and many have questions, and why authorities today have been given a negative 84 percent confidence. And the answer on the surface is very simple. One example. You know, when 300, less than 300 cases of measles were recorded in Brooklyn and another town in the United States, there was an emergency health announcement. In Ukraine, over three years, 95,000 people have died from measles, 35 people have died, and there is absolutely no response. We don't have an epidemic, we don't have a response. I went to the Attorney General's Office, to the National Police, asking them to consider the situation and to bring to justice the officials who allowed this state of affairs in the state. As early as 2017, on the Health Committee of the Supreme Council, we raised the issue of the need to create an operational headquarters to respond to this situation in Ukraine. It was all just at the beginning. In 2018, we received a response from the Ministry of Health that such a headquarters is working, that the disease is growing, it is planned. What this headquarters is doing is not clear to us today. And instead, we have, as always, you know, one of these. You know, we've been independent of Ukraine for a long time, and there's a worse version of Homo Sovieticus in the brain. We write, draw the Ministry of Health officials responsible, and we are told that in the Vinnitsk region, in the region of Ivano-Frankiv, in the area of Zakarpat, criminal cases have been committed against doctors who have allowed the deaths of people who have died as a result of the complications of measles. Yes, people work in security facilities where they can do their best, we're talking about the operational professional work of the heads of the ministry. If it goes on like this, we're going to be an outcast country, we're going to be exiles, we're going to be pilgrims. Because today the Poles are already raising violence on account of the fact that they have cases of bark, and they associate it with workers who come from Ukraine. Today, in the United States, it is said that hasids who were in Ukraine were brought there. And once again, I turn to the President-in-Office and to a new one, no matter what it is, whether it's active or new. If you fail to bring about a system of health care, it will be an eternal burden on your feet. Some do nothing, and you will be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u87	Thank you, Your Honor. And I now invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Vladimir Litvina. Please, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich. This will be the final talk of those deputies who are dissatisfied with the answers that came to their questions. Please, Mr. Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u88	Dear National Deputies! All genres during the election campaign should at least return encouraging answers. At the same time, the cynicism of this authority is deplorable. In general, there are discounts, and not the person to whom you refer, but the tenth deputy. Examples? Please. The MP's statement on the fact that there were 3.5 thousand people living in the village of Prvotravensk, where there was a post office called "Save" and where a person worked at 0.5 rates, while there were 3.5 thousand people living in the village, and mostly all the pensioners who received a pension there, they asked not to have this office closed. The village council did everything they could to keep this place. Can't just hold 0.5 bets. The answer came from "Restoration": "We are a financial institution, so we have firsthand profits, we don't get profits there." I have a question for the Prime Minister, the Cabinet of Ministers and the President: who thinks about the State's social obligations? And the wards are closed. They are said to be able to travel to the district center of Baranovka. No transport, no roads. One second. In the same area, people who survive by keeping cows and giving milk. The companies that appear, the one-days registered in other areas, take milk from people in this area into five villages, and people are not counted. There is no answer, either we investigate or we decide the matter in a court of law. I have a question, then why do the authorities that register these structures? Let's leave the people and the courts. Third moment. It's the pollution of the rivers of Svet and Gomorrah. There are no other deputies here who don't know about this problem, but it doesn't solve it. Because apparently, the owner is in a very high position as this Ponnickov cardboard-paper combination. They poison the country, poison the people, and poison 15,000 square miles [15,000 sq km]. There's no one to call. I can say, at the same time, that Parliament's leadership, instead of examining how the MPs are being asked, is absolutely not responding to any of the references, which has never been made before, there has been an analysis and there have been evaluations. And the last. It's about a hospital in Novograd Wallinsky. Before the election, everyone tells us how much they love the military. The hospital was closed, it was promised to be restored in 2018, in 2019, now in 2020. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u89	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u90	And finally the answer. We are reforming the Armed Forces by NATO standards, and so we have everything secured. But no one wants to point out that there are 7.5,000 people who are involved in fighting. It's only in one city, the hospital served the entire county. I demand that the answer be given essentially so that the problem is resolved and that the answers be signed by those to whom it is addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Staff Regulations, I hereby announce a recess of 30 minutes. And at 11 o'clock, I'm sorry, and at 12:30, we're going to start a recording of Ukrainian national MPs who want to be part of the "Rizzne" series. I'm calling it a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I'd like you to prepare for the recording for discussion at the Miscellaneous. Please hold the recording. All you remember is a personal vote, only a personal one. Just a personal click of the buttons, just a personal click of the buttons. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Anna Gopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u93	"If a person lives in an environment of totalitarian propaganda and does not notice it, propaganda has achieved its goal," said Václav Havel. Unlike the Czech Republic and a number of other countries in Central and Eastern Europe, Ukraine, with the declaration of independence and the fall of communism, did not immediately lose its propaganda and symbolism. We did it in this vocation, and just this week, four years ago, the Ukrainian Parliament passed "clean Thursday laws" or decommunization laws. On May 21, these laws came into force. One of the key laws in the decommunization package was the Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist (Nazi) Totalitarian regimes in Ukraine and the Prohibition of the Propaganda of Their Symbolism. The implementation of the Law on Decommunization allowed public space to be cleared from the propaganda of the totalitarian Communist regime. And I would also like to say that during the Dignity Revolution, we felt that we didn't want to live among those monuments to the bloody tyrants who came into dissonance with the European aspirations of the Ukrainians. Also, my friends, the Decommunization Act has deprived Moscow and the Fifth Column inside Ukraine of any illusion. Any illusion that our country could be dragged back into the post-Radians swamp. This is an important part of our European choice, where there is no place for Nazism or communism. And the Parliament of this calling would like very much to be able to complete those debts that we have. First, to complete the procedure and to adopt the changes to the Constitution regarding the renaming of the Dnipropetrovsk Region to Siceslavsk and Kirovograd region to Kropivnitsk. We also expect that the process envisaged by the law of banning the Communist Party will finally be completed. Not everyone knows, but the decision of the court to ban ICPO in 2015 was approved by the Ministry of Justice in an appeal where it is artificially suspended, and de jure Compartia is still not prohibited. It exists, provides some reporting documents, and only additional safeguards provided by law prevent it from participating in the elections. However, there is a serious threat, and this is the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which has recently passed an unexpected decision on the abolition of criminal liability for illicit wealth, which can now lift the ban on the Company and allow the next generation of Lenin, Stalin, to the Ukrainian politics and elections. It is important not to allow this to happen. So, colleagues, I would like to say frankly that after the Decommunization Act, the increase in Ukrainian music quotas in radio stations, is now being considered as a dual law on the protection and functioning of Ukrainian as a national language, and I very much hope that after the second round of presidential elections in this room there will be at least 280 votes to vote in favour of this historic decision -- and we will finally carry out our debt against the protection of Ukrainian language. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u94	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u95	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party For our party, it is extremely important that the electoral process in which the country is located takes place honestly, takes place transparently and does not cause a deepening of chaos and anarchy in a country that unfortunately is now engulfing the entire information space. That's why I would like to pay attention first of all to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the first deputy general of Dmitry Strožuk, that after the National Police investigated the mass bribery of voters in the city of Vasilkovi Kyiv region, 20 suspects were prepared, including the suspicion of the city's head, Volodymyr Sabodash, for bribery of the electorate through the "Turbota" social assistance programme, that is, people have committed an abomination, people have bribed the poorest sections of the population at budget expense, people. Thirty percent of those, one and a half thousand, were interrogated by Vasilkova’s police officers. 40 percent of the people didn't get help, about 15 people instead of thousands got 5,000 dollars, and they're directly working on the executive board of the city council or the persons who are profiled to them. That's why we're asking the Attorney General's Office to put order in the country for the second round of elections to agree on the suspicions of criminals who forged elections and bribed voters. The other one. It's just... it's... it's... Traveling is the home of the country. Farming is a fascinating experience. And we urge the government to consider immediately, and the Parliament to consider the legislative initiatives of the Radical Party of Oleg Láska, a whole package of legislative initiatives to stop the raiding and including agricultural raiding in the countryside. We're going to Parliament, I'm going to the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The last case of raiding the same area as the Vassilkow region when an agricultural cooperative was taken over in the village of Vilšanska Novoselica. They faked the seal, they faked the village convention protocol, the aunts walked in, they took the property, they dumped people. People throw themselves under wheels. It has to be stopped. And this raid is run by the district council's deputy from Peter Prashenko's Block, which is a disgrace. That's what the authorities have to stop. If we do not overcome chaos and anarchy, as suggested by Oleg Lazko and Radical.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u96	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Galasjuk. He was given the word of a colleague, six minutes in a row.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u97	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, today we have to solve the most pressing problems facing our society, our economy. Problem number one is the utility tariffs, which are excessively high and which today have created the debt of housing services over 60 billion dollars. Humans cannot pay these unfair excessive tariffs. Ukrainian gas is much cheaper than imported gas, but its artificially dictated by the International Monetary Fund for an unwarranted formula is compared to the price of imported gas. But the wages in Ukraine are lower in order than in successful European countries. So Oleg Láška’s team offers a systematic solution to this problem. The first is fair pricing for natural gas and utility tariffs. To this end, the President's artificial influence on the formation of a national commission that makes this regulation in the field of energy. To do that, we're going to introduce a fair formula that will take into account Ukrainian gas at a real price, taking into account the value and the profit standard, not the speculations that are taking place today. To do this is to increase Ukraine's energy-generating power generation, initiated by Lalashka's team a few years ago. We have passed laws that work today that have already rendered over 500 schools, hospitals, universities, kindergartens, and the potential of this program — 70,000 objects that will be drowned at the expense of private investors. That's why Oleg Valeriovich Ljashk and I, Alexander Dombrowski, have registered a bill so that at least 10 percent of the subsidies will be directed to energy-generating: to replace boilers, to heat credits for the population. And this is a real solution to the tariff problem today. The next is the massive importation of energy carriers, because when authorities buy billions of dollars in coal and gas abroad, when we ourselves have huge natural resources, it's an anti-national policy run by today's government. Increasing the mining of its own natural resources is energy independence and this is the country's economic security. But not only do we need to think about tactics but we need to think about strategies. Economic development is the biggest challenge facing our state, except for security and defence, because if it does not change this disadvantage, the insolvent, failed economic policy of today's power, Ukraine will remain on the side of European civilization for many decades. Tales tell of the economic successes of today’s authorities. But what a success it is when millions of our fellow citizens go abroad to seek a better destiny, they become forced immigrants, workers. I was shocked to see international statistics: Ukraine is seventh in number after countries such as China, Mexico, Russia, Pakistan, India. Just imagine the scale of these countries and the scale of Ukraine! What does this talk about? That power by economic politics pushes talented citizens to other countries. The cost that Ukrainian wage earners tell abroad has already reached $14 billion -- think about it! – this is five times more than direct foreign investment in Ukraine every year. There is no other country in the world where employee transfers exceed direct foreign investment five times, and where they account for more than 10 percent of the country’s economy in general. What are they turning the country into? Instead of making a country a producer, an innovator, a wealthy state, they make the country a center of emigration that sends talented people around the world, and they are loathe there, often very much -- they destroy their families. It's unacceptable. Oleg Lazko and our team offer in principle a different policy, a policy of rapid economic growth: instead of 2-3 per cent of the raw drift that is today, at least 7-8 per cent of economic growth by investing more than $100 billion in the real economy and creating 2 million jobs in Ukraine for Ukrainians. This is a strategy of the Radical Party, and it is fundamentally different from that of today's authorities. We have introduced to Parliament an industrial reform package that allows these strategic goals to be achieved. These are bills such as "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians", powerful investment incentives that will allow additional billions of investments to be involved in Ukraine every year and build new factories throughout the country. It's an expert credit agency that will spend loans on Ukrainian producers that are still sabotaged by the current government. This is the Free Networking Act, which removes the biggest barrier to the Ukrainian economy. And this is "Buy Ukrainian, pay the Ukrainians," which will significantly accelerate economic growth and allow you to raise wages, which means that the Ukrainians will receive pensions, not by percentage, but essentially, virtually at the same time, and not before the elections, as is the case with today's taxes, but on a permanent basis. To increase pay in Ukraine, to make Ukrainians rich in their own state, to enhance Ukraine’s authority in the international arena. This is the plan of the Radical Party and the team of Oleg Laska.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u98	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Vuka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u99	Victor Wolf, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen, for several years, the Radical Party has sought a legislative solution to issues aimed at the implementation of Russia's international legal responsibility for armed aggression against Ukraine. While awaiting support from the international community, such as sanctions against Russia, Ukraine has to do its own homework, calculate Russia's damage and damage and form a consolidated claim to the aggressor state. Let me remind you that the Soviet Union began preparing a claim for Germany back in the 42nd year, long before victory. More than a year ago, the Supreme Council of the Law on the Deposition of Donbas and in a separate decree, initiated by Oleg Lášk, envisioned the establishment of a special interdisciplinary body to prepare for Ukraine’s consolidated claim to Russia. After all, no existing authority would have been able to accomplish this task on its own. The government had no delay in carrying out this task in practice. It is absolutely insane that in 5 years of war, the Ukrainian State has never done a job counting the amount of damage we have suffered, without which it is impossible to present an aggressor's claim and to fully engage the international legal mechanisms for Russia's responsibility. During the past year, however, the Cabinet of Ministers practically ignored this issue and did not comply with either the laws or the decrees of the Supreme Council. It was only at the end of last year that the government adopted a decision that actually completely refined the whole point of this fundamental task. Instead of creating an active authority with a special status that would carry out extensive and complex work on the calculation of the damage and preparation of Ukraine's consolidated claim to the aggressor state, the government has formed an amorphous inter-declaration commission with advisory status without proper powers and mechanisms of work. So the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine acted contrary to the spirit and the letter of the law and the rulings of Parliament and created an apparently incompetent body unable to carry out the tasks assigned. Otherwise, criminal negligence and sabotage on the part of the authorities cannot be judged. In view of the extraordinary importance of this issue to protect the country's legitimate national interests, the Radical Party of Oleg Láska demands that the authorities immediately implement the law and the ruling of Parliament and create an effective authority with proper powers and mechanisms of work to calculate Russia's losses and prepare for Ukraine's consolidated claim to Russia as an aggressor state. It is not acceptable to delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u100	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Linc.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u101	Dmitry Linko, the Radical Party of Oleg Lachka. As long as the press talks about third-rate, not even secondary, analysis and so on, Ukraine is catastrophic. In Ukraine, exports of goods have been disastrously falling. I'm just going to give you a few figures from the field that are just going to go into shock, if we don't fundamentally change politics, they're going to continue. Especially pork. In January-February, Ukraine imported 8 million dollars, 4 thousand tons of pork, from Poland, from Germany, from Denmark, and exported 40 times less, just 114 tons of pork for 200,000 dollars. You just listen to these numbers. We have this trade balance in all of our sectors, especially those sectors that are the top priority in our country in the agricultural sector. Today, the head of a large horned cattle is catastrophic, accounting for 3.5 million headquarters, and it continues to fall. If the government doesn't take urgent action to change this policy, so as not to listen to our strategies, which we have proposed, which we have proposed to start with changes to the Constitution, namely to write in the Constitution, which is the basis of the agricultural system in Ukraine, to give stability to our farmers. The questions we're told by all the villagers working in the countryside who are told by farmers: we don't have any protection from the state, we don't have any help. Those grants that the authorities mentioned last year, this year, were allocated to a simple farmer, they don't go to a simple farmer. The complex systems that district administrations have created, the checks, they're blocking the actual help for simple farmers. As a result, we lose what we have left, and we lose markets. And Oleg Láška's Radical Party insists that we urgently need to review our agreements with the European Union, those quotas that are set for us by agricultural production end in the first half of January of the year. What can we talk about, which export? We're not even turning into a raw colony, we're turning into a colony that buys goods that we can feed all over Europe. Instead, we have a trade balance of 40 times less on agricultural products with countries in Europe. With these economic indicators, we can't talk about any rise in the social standard of life, or any rise in the standard of living of people, because Ukrainians, ordinary Ukrainian peasants, instead of working on their land, grow animals and sell them to Europe, have to go to Poland and then make money, raise their economy there, and the Ukrainian economy is not just stagnation, but degradation. We suggest that economic policy be changed dramatically and that support be given to farmers and farmers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u102	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the People's Deputy Medunic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u103	Oleg Medunica, town of Sumi, People's Front. Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs! Today I want to draw your attention to the problem of Ukrainian school, to the problem of raising Ukrainian children. We've done a lot in this room, and the government has done a lot to get us a new Ukrainian school so that we can have a reform of education. We've raised the salaries of teachers this year, we've finally raised the salaries of science and teaching staff. At the same time, however, there are problems that require legislative regulation. First of all, it is a problem with a young teacher. Because the wages of a young teacher who comes to work at a new Ukrainian school are unfortunately not much higher than the minimum. Of course, those teachers who have full workload and work with large supplements have great benefits, they have normal wages, high enough, almost as average in the state. But a young teacher is not going to school right now because it is impossible to live on the salary that a young teacher receives in school. The government needs to urgently develop mechanisms to restore the prestige of the teaching work so that we can get our children back into the educational system. Because we don't even have budget places in pedagogical colleges now, and there's almost no competition. Because few want to go then, after graduation, to make a minimum wage. Therefore, it is imperative that we: (a) return the prestige of the work and add the wages to the young teacher; turn our faces back to the pedagogical training system. Because we've adopted a very nice Higher Education Act with you, and we have, in principle, a union of our own, they make a lot of money. But teachers cannot earn that kind of money; they cannot have a large special fund. Therefore, there is also an interactive board in the first class of the Ukrainian school, and the computer stands, and this is not all in the school where we train teachers. There is a need to eliminate the pay gap between kindergarten teachers and post-school educators, because there is one wage in school and there is less pay in school and there is less pay in school and there are teachers. We've got to get the fare up there. review the tariff network and raise tariff charges so that the salaries of teachers are the same. We need the local authorities, along with the central government, to take care of the school to pay for the replacements, and now they don't pay for the allowances, because it's their prerogative to properly fund out-of-schools and kindergartens that are fully supported and paid there from the local budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u104	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u105	An extremely serious problem. Because if the state and local authorities don't invest in our children's education, there will be no future in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u106	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the National Fisherman. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've got a fish in front of Lenski. Please, National Deputy Koseljeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u107	Alona Košeljeva, Oleg Láška Radical Party. Madam Chairman, distinguished Ukrainian people, fellow national deputies, from this high rostrum, I want to draw attention to the results of the medical reform in Ukraine on the example of the situation that took place in the city of Kremenczuk in Poltavščina. During the "Oneness Circle" event, which is the Women's Movement Project in the Radical Party of Oleg Láska, from the local council of Auntie Siderka, it became clear to me that the citizens of the city are complaining massively that, regardless of whether a declaration is made or not, the doctors of family medicine do not challenge the patient's residence or residence, even if it is a child and it has a high temperature. This action allows doctors to carry out an order from the Ministry of Health dated March 19, 2018, No. 504 “For the approval of primary health care procedures”. This command was accepted as part of a medical reform, and it states that a family doctor has the right to decide the matter for himself. The prompt help on the basis of the same command to patients with fever does not go away either. This is another example of what reform is done, not for the benefit of people, but for the sake of reform. Then why make an agreement if the family doctor responds? At the same time, there are no separate rooms in the hospital to help high - temperature children, leading to children who are already healthy and who have just become ill being in one room. I called on the government to take all necessary measures to sort out this issue -- to provide immediate medical care to family medicine doctors in case of fever, especially to children. I would like to point out the persistence and complexity of the activities of the deputy from the Radical Party of Auntie Siderka, who also has five children. For her part, she was able to assemble the locals, and the problem was solved in the city of Cremenchuk. I would like to point out that the Radical Party team, led by Oleg Lášk, is making every effort to ensure that the constitutional rights of every citizen to health care, medical care, and the provision of medicines free of charge are properly realized. And I urge every Ukrainian not to silence existing problems but to turn around and fight, as the inhabitants of Kremenczuk have done. Go to the Iron Team of the Radical Party of Oleg Lachka. I call upon the distinguished Ukrainian women: join our circle of unity, for together we are the strength, together we will win, together it is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u108	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Golovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u109	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte, 164 constituency. Today’s authorities care for people as long as they do not die of happiness. This is how we can summarize the report of the Court of Auditors last year, which our government was able to do for the Ukrainian people. It's amazing. What's amazing is that we've seen a total decline in the economy, we've seen an increase in government debt, we've seen the poverty of Ukrainian society, of the Ukrainian people. Instead, we see the fat of the officials, we see the crazy wages of NAC Naftogazu's leadership, we see their cosmic bonuses. And instead, we see how their own sub-structures, sub-structured companies, such as Skrtransgas, go into debt and cause huge damage to the state. Over the last two years, that's more than 50 billion. So what did the House of Accounts say? What did we see? And what we've seen is that the budget failure, by income alone -- more than 20 billion -- we've seen at the expense -- is 49 billion, as well as failure to implement the plans and targets. This is the unutilized 8 billion for local budgets, the same transfers that the state has passed on to them. The money that they haven't earned, the work that they haven't done, is lost the same amount of money, it's inefficient management and their management. We've seen an increase in government debt service to 358 billion dollars last year. I want to say that this figure, which is more than 20 percent, is taken together to protect health and education, says that the country is completely in debt. Today, every Ukrainian is to blame, a pensioner, a worker, even a newly born Ukrainian, is already to blame for almost 100,000 dollars, and this debt is increasing. Because the authorities, apart from how to collect additional debts, do not know how to deal effectively with government authorities, how to implement economics and effective reforms. And when Freedom proposes let's adopt our package of anti-oligaric bills that would bring the economy out of the shadows that would give the government budget the resources that would stimulate production that would stimulate the return of Ukrainians to Ukraine, we've registered a bill that would encourage the return of Ukrainians to Ukraine, not tax their income, and their income would be considered as investment. Instead, the authorities register other bills that they try to tax and collect money from all the employees, and they don't know where the money is going, that is, a completely different view. Instead of supporting Ukrainians, instead of stimulating production, instead of developing our economy, we see a total robbery, we see the poverty of Ukrainian society, we see mass migration, we see a lack of desire to implement reforms, but only, on the contrary, the looting of Ukrainians. Therefore, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union calls for the immediate introduction of our bills – an anti-oligarchy package of laws to be considered in the session hall, the vote to recover funds from offshore to Ukraine and force them to work here for the benefit of the Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u110	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the people's representative of Kuprienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u111	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, today is the first day after the first round of presidential elections, when you may be approached from the country's highest rostrum. On behalf of the entire team, the Lachka Iron Team, on behalf of her leader, I thank you all. Thank you all for coming to the elections for fulfilling your civic responsibility. Thank you to all those who voted for our leader for Oleg Laska. Thank you and those who did not vote. We understand clearly your emotions, your indignation with today's power, your desire for everyone under the same ridge, who is in power, away. Believe me, not everyone just thinks about their own wealth, not everyone's sitting on Defense, not everyone's sitting on the power grid. There's a team that's been working, working for you, working for you, protecting your interests. Look in the hall: of the 21 speakers enrolled today, half is the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. We were in the hall, we were in the hall, we were working, we were working, we were working. Yesterday, pasturers from all over Ukraine gathered under the Kabmin and under the Supreme Council. Do you think anyone came to them except us? We're going to protect both herdsmen and bees and investors -- the average Chinese who have invested their money in building housing on Osokorky, and today the Kiev authorities are trying to resell this land, make money on it, and they don't care about the people who live in that country. We don't care. We fought, fought, and fought for you. Look, please, at the Supreme Council, at those who work here. He is working rather than bearing the high name of a national MP, and he often forgets that a national MP is speaking. from the people and to the people. And now we're being told that we're being "fed" by analyses, and we're being "fed" by debates. And among those who went to Strasbourg to protect Ukraine’s interests, besides Oleg Láška, so that Russia would not be returned to parieta, so that we would not take the sanctions to help fight the aggressor. No one noticed. Everybody says it's a victory, it's no big deal. Today, in answering Oleg Láška's questions, both Prime Minister and MD confirmed that this is a defeat in the foreign political arena. But we fight, and we fight. And you're backing us up. We're not gonna let you down. Don't worry, it'll be easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u112	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Yuri Derevyanko, is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u113	Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! This week, I called on the highest ranking candidates for Presidents Poshenko and Zelensky to contact the Supreme Council for approval before the second round of presidential elections. Dusty responded brilliantly on the same Monday to my call, but he said he was ready to discuss the matter and create some working groups. Please tell me what working groups may be like if the Bill 7248 on the President and the order of termination of his powers, on the President's impeachment, was registered by me on October 31, 2017, and is not yet under consideration by the Supreme Council, although it is long overdue for consideration, it should be considered and voted on. Yet, a week has passed and nothing is happening. Is this another lie or another manipulation of the electorate before the President's second tour? And on Wednesday, I registered a decree that the next sessional week, a non-sessional week, would be a sessional week, so that we could consider this important bill for the country and approve the second round of elections, because today it is unknown who will be President until the end of this, and this is a unique opportunity for Ukraine to get the impeachment law in 24 years of our Constitution. But we can see that nothing is happening either. Therefore, Peter Alexiyovich, honourable President of Poshenko, you promised to pass the Law on impeachment at the beginning of your cadence, your faction of the "Block of Peter Prashenko" signed a coalition agreement, where it was anticipated that the Impeachment Act would be introduced and voted on in the first quarter of 2015. But that was not done. Little has been done this week to support my decision to have the Supreme Council work in session next week. I did my best to keep this promise: I registered Bill 7248 in the 17th year, made a decree that next week would be a sessional one, but I see that nothing is done. So there's only one thing left to show you that you're not lying to the Ukrainian people, that you're the owner of your word, that you don't care about the demands of the Ukrainians, that eventually Ukraine gets the opportunity to legally resign any president who's committed a crime, and that's what you have the chance to do. So I would like to ask you, Sir Peter Alexiyovich, to take the initiative to take the initiative to hold an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council next week, to consider and adopt this bill. I am convinced that millions of Ukrainians want the next President to be accountable and accountable to the Ukrainian people. I am convinced that this is a requirement of millions and millions of Ukrainians and the political party "Will" today also requires action from you, not just a promise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u114	Please give the next speech, the national MP, Oleg Lazko, six minutes. And after that, you are, Mr. Sergei. Because there's only two statements from the members of the faction of Oleg Lachka's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u115	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Tonight I returned from Strasbourg, where Ukraine held a battle on the international front. Dear Ukrainians, at a time when the authorities and those who claim power distract your attention from completely secondary, third-rate issues -- the whole world laughs at us. Now, I've looked at the impression of our European colleagues on what's happening in Ukraine, it's so humiliating, it's so embarrassing for a country, a huge European country with a decent nation, it's led to the world being humiliated today, running through stadiums, running around with cans for analysis, and so on. So long as those who claim to run the country -- and to take a new lead or continue to run -- while they're running with cans of analysis, I'll tell you, dear Ukrainians, what's going on on on the international front. For the first time in the last four years, we have lost the battle for the first time in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which brings together 47 nations. At a time when we are in Ukraine, we lose the international front, a disunited nation fighting for people. As long as we fight here, we are united in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe by those who call themselves our allies. Germany and France stand in the fairway of the return of the Russian delegation to Paris. It's theirs. The German cat took the lead in Paris and passed a resolution that actually opens the way for the Russian delegation to return to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Four years ago, the Russian delegation was there. She was fined for Russia's annexation against Crimea for the occupation of Donbas. Over the years, Russia has done nothing — violate human rights, violate the rights of the Tatars in the occupied Crimea, kill our citizens in Donbas, millions of immigrants, millions of Ukrainians who lost their home, their livelihoods, their jobs. A PARAJE imposed sanctions on Russia for this. And today, motivated by money, motivated by hypocrisy, deceit, betrayal, they are actually returning this Russian delegation to Paris, forgiving them, giving them indulgence to commit further crimes both against Ukraine and against their own nations. Other States. You know, when I was in this room in Paris, I'll tell you that Europeans need to learn more about hypocrisy and deception. When they come here to Kiev, they tell us how they want to do good for Ukraine, how they care about helping Ukraine, and what they are doing is making decisions against Ukraine. And that hypocrisy was so high in the air in the Parliamentary Assembly Hall of the Council of Europe. I'll tell you why in the first four years they made that decision. Because we're weak. Because the whole world is laughing at us today. Because if we Ukrainians don't protect our country, who needs us? Who will protect us? That's what I'm talking about, and I'm going to talk about it. We can't trust anyone, we can't expect anyone. We cannot expect someone to protect the country for you, to make arrangements, and to make arrangements for Ukraine. If we don't do it ourselves in Ukraine. The Germans are telling us how they support us, they're building the North Stream-2, which is taking transit potential in Ukraine. Germany is opening a Mercedes car factory in Russia. From Ukraine, the Skoda car factory is coming because the authorities haven't given investors the opportunity to enter and build a factory, we've lost $2 billion in investment, thousands of jobs. And the Germans are opening a new Mercedes factory in Russia. Here's the whole price between words and deeds. I'm talking to the Ukrainians. A divided nation loses without war, just as we lose on the outer front right now. And believe me, this victory of the Russians, in fact Russian money in PARJE, even though our authorities, its representatives, are lying that we won there, they are hanging greetings with the glorious victory of Ukraine in PARJA. It's how much it takes to be pygmies, how much it takes to disrespect the Ukrainians, not respect the Ukrainians, to lie to our defeats, and, in fact, the black day of Ukraine, to give up for victory. That's all their genius diplomacy. Any diplomacy is worthwhile and wins only when a strong economy and a strong country, when a country is not in the world, when a country does not export cheap labour and raw materials when Ukraine is not on its knees asking for anything. We earn, we have to earn, we have to rebuild our own strength and our own economy. What example does power set? It's World Space Day. Have you heard from anyone, from the President, from the Prime Minister, from the head of Parliament, with this glorious day? Ukraine is the birthplace of the world’s cosmonautics. Our brilliant Kingmaker was born in Zitomirsk. Today, 65 years is marked by the Southern Construction Office, which has allowed our missiles to fly, and they're still flying around the world a little bit. Where is state policy? Where is a space program that has not been in Ukraine for two years? Where is the priority for innovation, for technology, where the struggle for membership in this elite club of space states, where Ukraine is one of the seven states of the world? What are they offering us? And we're offered agreements with the IMF that are demeaning, rising prices for gas, poverty, begging and addiction. I want to tell you, Ukraine, regardless of the presidential election, me and my team, we're fighting for Ukraine and for you. We have a parliamentary election ahead of us, we have a lot of fighting ahead, a lot of losing, but even more winning. Our main victory is a strong country, the wealth of every Ukrainian family, the protection of Ukraine's national interests. No one, no one, nor any of the earth’s interests or national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u116	Please give the next speech by the national deputy Sergio Leschchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u117	Dear Ukrainians, perhaps last night you were watching the "Right to Power" program where Peter Poroshenko came to the "1+1" channel studio, and one of the topics related to criminal cases that were discovered in the Attorney General's Office regarding his immediate surroundings. And I want to report from this high court of parliament that the episode, which is now the basis for the investigation, has indeed taken place and is part of a criminal investigation not only in Ukraine but also in Austria. It's about equipment, like in the last month of President Yanukovich's reign, his wallet, Sergey Kurchenko, sold Ukrainian media holding. I'm sorry, I bought Ukrainian media holding, and was sold by Boris Lozkin, a businessman at the time, and then the head of the President's Administration. And these documents, which are part of this investigation, were transferred to Ukraine by the Austrian Attorney General's Office in the 15th year. That's 100 of these documents, these are hundreds of pages that have been handed over, but they haven't been the cause of the investigation in Ukraine, because that's when Poroshenko was president, and Lozkin was the head of the administration. These documents, just to quote them just to understand what they're talking about, because they're not our selling law enforcement agencies, they're Austrian, they're reporting it directly, they're trading 315 million euros for the acquisition of this Ukrainian Media Holding asset. I quote: "It has been established that there were 314 million euros in receipts in due course of time and that the sum of about 315 million euros has been sent from the bank account. The circulation was mainly in United States dollars as well as in euro and British pounds. In addition to the very large amounts of transactions, it should also be noted that these transactions took place exclusively between offshore firms, in which it is not possible to determine real commercial activity to date." The Austrian prosecutor's office also referred transactions, wires, to Ukraine back then in the 15th year. In a very small font, you won't see it, but it's hundreds of transactions for this amount, which at that time applied to the head of the President's Administration. And why do I remember President Prashenko, because he was a part of the Ukrainian Media Holding, and he got that same money. What did the Ukrainian Attorney General do then in the 15th year? She didn't even open a case in Ukraine. She informed Austria that there was no criminal record that the case was not being investigated in Ukraine. And so Austria also said that if you don't need it, we don't need it in Austria, and they shut down the criminal conduct. This was personally taken care of by the deputy head of the Presidential Administration, Alexei Filatov, who is now "watching" the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee. This is how Ukrainian corruption has completely avoided the responsibility of those involved in it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u118	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u119	Thank you. This was an example of how Ukrainian corruption, the high - level conspiracy, prevented Janukovic from being responsible for the environment and the dusty environment. And while the law enforcement agencies abroad have long handed all these facts over to Ukraine, they have silenced and spit only now into the midst of the electoral campaign. I hope that after the change of power this will all be re-examined. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u120	The next performance is the national MP, Mikhailo Bondar. Please, Mr. Mikhailo, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency district (Brodovstina, Bushina, Kamyanecina and Radehovščina). I want to be the head of the coal industry subcommittee today. All who own information in this field are finding that they continue to have problems, problems with the cost of modernization. Even if coal mines are being mined, there is a problem with coal, and so there is a problem with wage pay. Why the problem with realisation, because the public service, the state-owned state-owned supply company, in its own time, that bought coal in government mines, is not working right now. For what reasons, the law enforcement authorities may need to be examined. But it was this company that was doing the shopping, doing the stock market, selling the coal. Now coal is being sold through the private structures of the so-called watcher Vitaly Kropachev, and there is nowhere to be found for this coal and coal miners are once again running out of wages. I want to thank you, today I have approached the Prime Minister, the members of the government, to thank you for this order, which has been allocated 350 million dollars to pay off the debt on wages. And even though in this way, to remove the tension in the regions, the mining regions, and to give the Passover an opportunity, before the Sunday of Verbal, to buy and be worthy to celebrate this great holiday. But today, again, such calls are coming from regions that the Treasury has discovered a special account, the funds have gone to this special account, but tax, the offices of large taxpayers don't agree to the opening of this account somewhere, and accordingly they can't support the region of the funds. I want to go to the tax manager right now to speed up this process accordingly so that the account opened up in the treasury, given him the opportunity, was activated, and state-owned enterprises, I stress, could get these funds and pay their employees a salary. Once again, I ask you to listen to this and decide as soon as possible. Today, Friday, the last day, so that on Sunday, it will be a Sunday, and they will receive the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u122	Thank you, Your Honor. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Mr. Kryvosh.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u123	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Thank you, Vladislav Danilina, for your word. Dear colleagues, I'd like to raise a few questions today that are quite painful for Kiev, especially for Bogoslavslavina, for the Ministry of Peace, and they apply primarily to the activities of the Kyiv District Administration and the deputies of the Kyiv District Council. First question. All of us, all of us citizens of Bogoslavska, know about the problem of financing, ending the financing of the Icegrave Arena. During the past five years, funds have been allocated from the Kyiv District Administration, virtually in the last year with the adoption of the 2019 budget, and funding has not been cut off. And that's why the second quarter of the Kyiv District Council and the district budget don't actually finance today's rent of ice, wages for employees, coaches, and utilities. There are appropriate referrals and submissions, budget submissions to the district council. So I would like to refer to the head of the district council, to the deputies, to all the deputies of the district council, including the deputies working in the territory of the Boguslav district, to initiate as quickly as possible and to call as quickly as possible. The question of the convening and holding of a district session of the Kyiv District Council in order to allocate the appropriate funds, including for the icefield Icegrave. The next question that has hurt enough and that we've been talking about for more than a year is the question of roads and bridges: the Mironian Pathway and the Vladislav Road is the road T1022. At the moment, according to the latest information provided by the road service and the district administration, it seems that there are signed transitional funding costs. I would like to refer once again to the head of the district administration not to delay this process and to transmit it as quickly as possible. the corresponding agreed list, which lists the road in the village of Vladislavka in order to continue funding, and though by May we understand that the road must be made, and all the commitments that have been made by all, beginning with the Ministry and ending with the deputies of the district, the heads of administration, the district deputies and the heads of the district administration of the council, to make all the commitments made and the road made. Finally, I would like to address the people of the Boguslav region and report that the head of the district administration, Alexander Tereshuk, has signed an application to the Central Election Commission for the appointment of elections to the Boguslav United Territorial Society. Over a year later, the head of the district administration could not make the submission. This submission was neither for the President’s support nor for the promotion of the Prime Minister nor for the Ministry of Profiles.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u124	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u125	Until the citizens themselves were actively involved, we did not collect signatures. Thank you for your active position. And today there is this submission, and I hope that in the near future we will continue the process of decentralization, and in Boguslav, the Boguslav region will be established next to the Medwink community to form the Boguslav united territorial community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u126	Thank you, Your Honor. And our colleague, the national deputy Roman Semenach, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u127	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! The presidential campaign is coming to an end, and Kharkushina has shown one of the worst results of supporting the current president. And if more than a third of the Kharkivs voted in 2014 for the candidate, 35 percent, the results of the last elections showed that the Harkows enjoyed the so - called victories of power enough, and this time Peter Poshenko gained a little over 8 percent in the Kharkiv region. And this support for the population is not just the result of Peter Prashenko's activities, it's primarily the result of his team's work over the last four years. The heads of the Kharkiv District Administrations, first Igor Rainin, then the Light Julia, who have been keeping the guarantor of the Constitution warm all this time. He spoke, the region is in good hands and under his control, and he leads in many ways. As evidenced by sample ratings throughout the country, fair sociological research has also fundamentally misled society by the results of the election in OTG, where only through mass bribery of voters, pressure on opponents, criminal persecution has won. At the same time, socio-economic indicators in the Kharkiv region are getting worse. Over the past four years, the export volume of products produced in the Kharkiv region has dropped four times. More than 10 percent in the business plan also declined. 10 percent of the number of caregivers. Think about it, almost 2.5 thousand enterprises, which are now thousands of jobs, millions of taxes, have closed in the last four years. Debt on wages is increasing. The population debt for housing services in the Kharkiv region is increasing by over 5 billion dollars. And this situation, I repeat, is the direct result of the administration and robbery of the local team of the Kharkiv Dusty Region. At the same time, I pay attention to Ukrainians who are taxpayers, and huge public budget funds are being invested in the region. Think about it, the cost of maintaining Kharkiv ODA in the 14th year was 167 million dollars, but by the 18th, more than half a billion dollars a year to maintain the Kharkiv District State Administration. At the same time, beatings, persecution, intimidation, monopolization of the media market are the new rules of the so-called new power. But the Harkowians are very wise people, and they have shown that without looking at the fairies' ratings, cutting the ribbons, the fairies and the showy actions, the portraits, the cult of personality that in the time of Brezhnev is developing in the Harkow region, they don't affect their choices, they're wise, and they said their word on March 31st. I'm sure the Harkians will show their wisdom, come to the polling station, and say their word "no" to the valid authorities on April 21st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u128	Next talk, please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u129	I would like to draw attention from the Parliamentary rostrum to the fate of Arthur Stryzuk, an activist from Hmelnick. He leads the local Automidan, known in the city for good things, especially eco-activism, more simply, he opposes the pollution of the South Bug River. One of the things Arthur's doing is stealing from the people of Hmielnick and money and land. Mary ordered the construction of a swimming pool for the builder, a swimming pool for the city. As a result, there is no pool, no money, no local land. Arthur does not seem to be drawing the attention of law enforcement agencies, causing the interest of the State Bureau of Investigation. And as the D.B.I. investigators arrived at Hmelnicki's, Arthur himself began to be drawn by the local police in the fraud case of another company, another person. But the Hmielsky police investigators can honestly say to the activist: "You're a witness today, and we'll see what we can do." I want to tell these investigators and the chief of police I'm familiar with: Arthur under our protection, under the protection of the collective security network "Protection", which we have done in response to numerous attacks, threats, pressure on public activists across the country to make Ukraine fair and good, and for this they get repression, beatings, sometimes killings. I'm asking everyone who's still in the police force not to cross the law. In this story, we will surely lose sight of Arthur. I hope that his enthusiasm and good things will continue to increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u130	Please welcome National Deputy Kirsch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u131	Alexander Kirsch, Kharkiv. I want to tell the taxpayers a little bit about their rights, because not all payers know what rights they have when they try to fight taxpayers who abuse entrepreneurs. First of all, he has the right to issue generalized tax clarifications only to Minfin, but he hardly publishes them, and tax inspection issues only individual clarifications. But individual explanations can save only those to whom they are addressed, that is, those to whom they are sent under the Tax Code. But if there are two different answers to the same question from the taxpayers — one that is possible and one that is not possible — paragraphs 4.1.4 and 56 work. 21 The Tax Code, according to which the same wording and the law that satisfies the tax payer is in effect. So even if this letter is not addressed to you, even if it is not addressed to you, but if anyone can, you can do so, according to these paragraphs 4.1.4 and 56. 21. Because if one is possible and the other is not available, there is a conflict of interest, and in the event of a conflict of interest, there is a rule that satisfies the taxpayer. So you just need to know what you can do, and that already means that everyone (including you) can do it. In addition, if the taxpayers resist, I remind them that it is the taxpayer who has committed a crime or an activity, or in inactivity, or, in accordance with paragraphs 21.3 and 21.4 of the Tax Code, that the taxpayer must be held accountable for his actions. First the state, then before the state, the taxpayer. But this requires that tax payers not be afraid to go to court. It is for the court’s sake that it is possible for the taxpayers to allow one another and that it is permitted for everyone to do so in accordance with the paragraph on conflict of interest and that, if they do not allow it, the State, and then before the State, the taxpayer. In addition, there is paragraph 4.1.9 of the Tax Code, which states that legislation in Ukraine should be stable, that is, it can change no later than 6 months before the beginning of the new year. So the standards that were in force in the 19th year were to be adopted no later than June 30th 18th, and the 20th year was no later than June 30th 19th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u132	Thank you. And please, to your word, George Soloway, you have the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u133	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Before starting my speech, I ask the secretariat to formalize it in the form of an official MP's address, and on the first, this MP's address will refer to the unsatisfactory state of the roads within my district, especially within the Upper East, Kosovo and Snetski district, and especially the road of state importance. Moreover, I would like to say that today's address is the fourth in a row to which I am addressing Mr. Slavomier Novak, Head of the Ukraine. And I want to point out that even though only one of the previous references was answered, even that reference was not the answer to the question, but it was a write-off. And so, Madam Chairman, I refer to you, including, on the basis of the rules of the Rules, considering that the answer that I have as a national deputy and I have violated the relevant address is absolutely out of the question of the substance of the impertinent appeal, and I ask you, including on Friday, to invite me to the Supreme Council Hall to explain why it does not respond to my petitions and why the appeal actually bears a formal reference, rather than answering the question that I have addressed. And I asked for urgent repairs to the roads of state importance within my district. Moreover, in some cases, for example, last Sunday, people in the village of Verbovec in the Kosovo area, who were driven to despair, went out into the street and started some sort of protest, requiring the immediate start of repairs of these roads. Why do people raise these questions? And because today it's April on the street, and yet, as the people say, "the horse didn't roll" in the part of the repair of the roads of state importance, especially the road R24 within the Krivopil Pass and the road of the Sunshine Kosovo. And I want to point out that, as early as January, the cost of the roads in question was projected in the state budget, the relevant decision of the Cabinet of Ministers was adopted, but unfortunately, to this day, the roads had not started. I believe that this is the very responsibility of the leadership of Ukraine, of the road service in the region of Ivano-Frankow, and I believe. I demand that the leadership of Ukraine begin repairing the roads of this state importance immediately. What I'm surprised about is why in the Ternopil area, why in the Lviv region, why in the Chernivecko region, as a minimum, there's been a renewed road trip of national importance, and so far in the Ivano-Frankov region, before this repair, there's not even a hand in the area, the only thing that's limited is formal receipts and absolutely no response to questions that are being addressed by the national MP. That's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u134	15 seconds. 30 seconds to complete. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u135	So please, Mrs. Irina, take the next one on Friday. Upon completion of the "hours of questions to the Government" invite the head of Ukrawtodor to explain why my parliamentary official request and appeal have been ignored and ignored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-12-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, our sessional week is ending, let me thank all the Ukrainian national deputies who have been working conscientiously for the week to amend the second reading of the Ukrainian language bill. Actually, I would like to remind you that next week, Ukrainian national MPs are working with voters, and on the week of April 15 to 19, national MPs are working on committees, commissions and factions. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, April 23, 19th, at 10 a.m. And also, honourable colleagues, allow me to address all Ukrainian citizens. Once again, I thank the active position shown by Ukrainian citizens during the first round of presidential elections, when on March 31st they came to the polls and voted for their candidate. Actually, I want to remind all Ukrainians that April 21st is the second round of presidential elections, and we urge you to show an active civic position, and come to the polling station to support Ukraine. This morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Thank you.
