ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the heads of factions, please invite the national deputies to begin their work. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and insert your cards. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to Ruslan Alexiovich Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u2	As long as we're all meeting, with your permission, once again, the question of how the button works is a few announcements. First yesterday, because we didn't read it first. A few statements came from the People's Deputy Bilozer regarding the failure of the button in the election of National Deputy Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich as First Deputy, to consider the vote "yes". In the roll-call vote for the draft Bakanov's appointment as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, count in favour. The vote on the commission of a profile committee to review the draft Ukrainian Law on a special procedure for the removal of the President from office (impitchment) has not worked, please consider it "yes". With regard to the amendment to the Ukrainian Construction Standards Act on the improvement of building standards, on the commission of the Main Committee, please count "for." And also on the task of assigning a profile committee on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on reintroduction of power, the remote did not work, I ask you to count for it. And the last of the People's Deputies is that there was a lack of control over, once again, the definition of the profile committee of the draft Ukrainian Law to amend some of the legislative acts on improving administrative services in the area of construction and the creation of a single state electronic system in the area of construction. Also, I'd like you to count it in. Moreover, the National Deputy Vasilchenk also requests that his voice be considered as "restraint" for the draft Law on the Bar Monopolies and Referral to the Constitutional Court. As well as the people's deputy Meidich. There was no vote in favour of the Order on the inclusion in the agenda of the President of Ukraine's mandate to form independent regulators and send him to the Constitutional Court asking him to count "for". Thank you. I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u3	Thank you. People's deputies are requested to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Let's register, colleagues. [[16:08:18]] There are 325 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our consideration of matters of the order of the day. A draft Decision on the discharge of a member of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine, Milovanov Timothy Sergiyovich, is being introduced. Reporter to the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danilo Aleksandrovich. But, but I would like to take this question up by a reduced procedure. It takes 150 votes. Dear colleagues, please support such an offer. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:09:18]] For 255 Thank you. Decision taken. The question will be considered by a simplified procedure. Report in two minutes. Danilo Alexandrovich Getmantsev, head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u4	The honourable chairman, the honourable national deputies, the really simple question, we voted with you in favour of the appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers includes Milovanov Timothy Sergiyovich. According to the National Bank of Ukraine Act, in article 10, "a person cannot be a member of the National Bank Board if he has a representative mandate or is a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." Milovanov is now a member of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. In accordance with this article, a member of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine is dismissed from office in connection with the completion of his or her term of office or in the event of circumstances that preclude a person from being a member of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine. There's a draft regulation on. Orders of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the dismissal of a member of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine, Milovanov Timothy Sergiyovich. We've submitted it to the Supreme Council, the committee supported it, there's a committee submission. Please support the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u5	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Please register representatives of the MP factions: two in, two in, and two in, against. We have only one willing speaker: Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland". Sobolen. Out of the way. Please turn on Sergei Sobolev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u6	Sobolje, Fatherland. You know, I don't think that's a question, because it's rhetorical. I think all the answers should be given by the commission that is now being set up for the initiative of our colleague from the "Serve of the People" and we have already submitted a candidate who has to find out what was going on at the National Bank. But I would like Mr. Milovanov to provide the same information the commission will need. So this wish is more than a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u7	Thank you. Olés Long. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u8	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I may not be quite on the subject, but I have such an important request for you. Today we make the day of important transformations and become closer and more open. When you announced a lunch break, I came out of the hall with others and saw that our colleague Jan Zinkevich, who had certain restrictions on the movement, was sadly unable to get to a dining room that was three stories smaller, until several colleagues physically there, including me, helped her to cope. I would like to ask you very much right now, if I may, to have the Chief of the Apparatus arrange for a session, not only for Mrs. Jana, but also for journalists and other people who have limitations. And I'm ready on my own. [[Applause]] Please identify me as your responsible assistant in order to control what happens. And in case we have funding problems, I'm willing to join in and help with the personal cost of helping to make it work. Thank you. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u9	Thank you. I'm going to the Apparatus to study this question and take care of its solution. And thank you to the People's Deputy for this proposal and ask him to join in the implementation and resolution of this problem. Thank you. If there is no objection, I propose a vote. Who. and to support the decision on discharge as a member of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine, Milovanov Timothy Sergiyovich. Take as a basis and as a whole. Please support and vote. [[16:14:26]] For the 320. The decision is made as a basis and as a whole. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The draft Law (registration number 1015) amending article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine (legislative initiative of the people) is being submitted to our consideration. Honorable national deputies, according to the requirements of part one of article 146 of the Rules, are being considered in full discussion. The report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Fedor Volodymyrovich Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u10	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! The bill under registration number 1015 refers to the amendment to article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine. President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine, in carrying out his pre-election promises, the pre-election promises of the political party "Serve of the People" concerning the expansion of the peoples of the country, introduced the bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call and defined it as urgent. What are we talking about? The point is that today, according to article 93 of the Constitution, the law of the legislative initiative in the Supreme Council of Ukraine has three subjects: the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the national deputies of Ukraine. At the same time, article 5 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which consolidates one of the most important fundamental ideas of all constitutional and legal regulation, namely the idea of the peoples of the country, tells us that the people bear sovereignty and the only source of authority is the people. Article 69 tells us that people exercise their authority through elections, referendums, and other forms of direct democracy. To implement article 5 of the Constitution of Ukraine, to establish the right of the people to initiate a bill in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to submit this bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine. After its adoption, the people of Ukraine, in numbers and in order to be determined by law, will be able to initiate a review in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of that bill, which he will consider to be important and necessary in terms of initiating Parliament's consideration. The introduction of a bill in the Supreme Council by the people will have the same legal effect as any other legislative initiative. This will only result in the duty of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the relevant bill, and if Parliament considers the bill initiated by the people to be very important and can be supported by Parliament, it will be supported. If Parliament considers that there is no point, no one is obliged by the Supreme Council to approve the bill. In this way, we only give citizens of Ukraine the opportunity to initiate a certain amount of debate in the bill's parliament. I would like to draw attention to the questions raised yesterday in the matter before the Committee on Legal Policy. The point was that in the Constitution it was necessary to determine in what order the people would be able to exercise their right to legislative initiative. This is a question that is very closely intertwined with other issues that have already been discussed in Parliament today and that will be discussed with regard to the bills tabled by President Zelenski. The language is, honourable national MPs, that the issue of constitutional regulation should be clearly delimited, and the Constitution is the basic law that regulates the most important, key things. And there is a question of legislative regulation, of how the people's right to initiate parliamentary consideration of the bill, of the number of signatures to be collected under such a bill, this is a question of exclusive legislative regulation that will be developed and adopted after appropriate changes to the Constitution, because otherwise it has no legal meaning at present. Therefore, I am asking for support for the bill under registration number 1015, which was introduced by President Zelenski and is defined as urgent for the introduction of this bill into the agenda of the day and for referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to reach a conclusion on its conformity, the requirements of articles 157 and 158. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there questions for the rapporteur? Please sign in. The word is given by Shah's Sergey Volodymyrovich, who is nonfractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u12	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Question to the reporter. Please tell me, if we are changing this standard of the Constitution and making changes, why should parliamentarians in general sit in this room? Our Lugansk team voted in full and supported all of the President's bills: the change of the Attorney General, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Kabmin in its entirety, the removal of immunity, too. What they were saying was true. Please tell me. I ask you personally to come to Luhansk and see how people live there today in Lysichansk, in Rubižny, in Sevijerodonetsk, to travel to Happiness, to travel along those roads, the Station Lugano direction. What can those people write today, what kind of bill? They need water, electricity, and normal life in that area today. And in this case, our team will not support this bill. Not the Reverend, not Sukhov, not at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u13	Let me make a deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u14	In answer to your question, I would like to appeal once again to article 5 of the Constitution of Ukraine. "The bearer of sovereignty, the only source of power in Ukraine is the people. The people exercise power directly and through the authorities of the state and the authorities of local self-government." The direct implementation of the power of the people, including the practice of foreign countries, is also possible through the initiation by the people of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Bills. How the people will realize this right will be laid down in the law. I would not, if I were you, question the level of people who might initiate a question. What is happening today in certain areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. [[Applause]] The fact that there is a war going on in some parts of the Donetsk and Lugansk region today, I have seen it. I went through the whole line of delimitation, beginning with Lugansk and ending with Reddale, Milov, and ending with Mariupol. That's why I've seen how people live, but it doesn't deprive us of the right to give these people the opportunity to initiate an examination of the issue by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u15	Thank you. Janko Anton Volodymyrovich, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u16	Your Honor, I have a very simple question. Well, for example, the people in the order prescribed by law will put the draft law here for registration, and it will continue to be considered in the ordinary procedure. And I have another question that, in my opinion, it would not be better now to submit, nevertheless, the Referendum Act, which has been mentioned a lot, and so that people can raise questions in a referendum and conduct them as a direct people? Because it's not, is it now a substitute for the concept of a referendum by this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u17	Thank you for asking. In no way does the draft law replace the referendum process. The peoples are directly being held through elections and referendums. President Greensky's team, our political power is already working on the referendum bill, and he will be brought to Parliament. With regard to this bill, which I am now introducing, it is another form of democracy, namely, the initiation of Parliament's consideration of a bill by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so there is no duplication.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u18	Thank you. Oksana Vasilovna's owl, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u19	Good afternoon! Oksana Savchuk, Ivano-Frankivsk. In the city of Ivano-Frankivsk, there is a local initiative that we have taken for four years, and we are not afraid that the city community will make the decisions that we are considering at the beginning of the session. I have the next question to you, how real is this initiative going to be for people to believe that they can actually collect enough signatures, collect enough, actually, necessary documents for everything to become a bill and be considered? And can I be included in that group that's going to be working on the development of the points?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u20	Thank you so much for your question. In fact, it's very clear that you need to give the maximum opportunity to Ukrainian citizens, to initiate consideration at the level of local self-government, and at the level of Parliament on certain issues. As for the second question, or the second part of the question of the procedure for the exercise of this right. It's up to you and me in the future to regulate the procedure that we're going to prescribe. Today, the world is at an informational stage of its development, so the right of the people to draft a bill can be realized by the very program announced by the President of the Green Country's Smartphone. I think we can quietly write in a law that will regulate procedural issues that, through electronic media, through newspapers, citizens of Ukraine, by going through digital identification, by registering and confirming their identity, will be able to put a signature "for" initiating a question or another question. As far as the question is concerned, it would certainly be naive to assume that all citizens would be forced to write some kind of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u21	Let me make a deal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u22	But in any society, including Ukraine, and this has been demonstrated by the events of several revolutions that have already taken place, there is an active civil part of our people. If these civil-active, political-active citizens are initiating an interesting question that will get enough votes from other citizens, this question will be addressed by Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u23	Thank you, Feder Volodymyrovich. Thank you. The word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Olga Volodymyrski Sougiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Legal Policy, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 30 August 2019, considered, at its meeting on 2 September 2019, Protocol No. 2, submitted by the President of Ukraine as an immediate bill amending article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the legislative initiative of the people (registration No. 1015) of 25 August 2019. Having examined the bill within the limits of articles 145, 146 of the Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Legal Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as an immediate bill for amendments to article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for the legislative initiative of the people), (registration number 1015 of 29 August 2019) to include in the agenda of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the ninth vocation and to refer to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to obtain a conclusion on its compliance with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. A panellist at the High Council plenary meeting identified the deputy chairman of the Sougir O.V. Add the appropriate materials, and please consider the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u25	Thank you, Olga Volodymyrically. Is there a question for the reporter? Yes, there is. Then I'd like you to sign up. The word is given by Kirilenko to Ivan Grigorovich, the faction of the political party "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please pass the word to my colleague, Alona Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u27	Pass the word to Alona Shkrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u28	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Thank you and the previous speaker and you for at least explaining to us the details that are planned in the law for the future. But don’t you think that the important issue that exists in other countries is very different. Yes, in some countries it takes 25,000 signatures to enable the so - called people to initiate legislation, in another 500,000, in some 100,000. Perhaps it would be wise to start a multinational discussion, a public discussion, to understand what initiative the law would then be given to Mr. President, rather than simply amending the Constitution in one word, and not to know what law would be proposed for us, and what procedure would be proposed. There was a desire for more real information and discussion not only within Parliament but also outside Parliament, confident that Ukrainians had a point of view on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u29	In the world practice, there are two forms of gathering signatures for citizens of Ukraine to initiate the question of a national legislative initiative: this is a fixed number of citizens or a certain percentage of the number of voters who are properly implementing this initiative. In this regard, one of these forms will be defined in the relevant bill, which will develop the provisions of the Law on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine. And I think that, especially because of the involvement of citizens in this process, the most effective form in these conditions will be chosen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u30	Thank you. The word is given to Gerasim's Arthur Volodymyrovich, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u31	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u32	Pass the word to Ruslan Knazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u33	Thank you, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I, frankly, wanted to ask a representative of the President, the subject of the legislative initiative, but I will try to ask you as much as possible. Now, I have a strong belief, this is my personal, that the President was very much founded by this bill, because the authors, frankly, what was said from the rostrum by the representative of the subject is absolutely not in line with what is in the text, because it's probably a good idea that we're going to give this idea at the legislative level for the initiative of the people, and we're going to write all of these things down by way of regulation at the legislative level. The text itself is about something else, and I'll tell you what happens to them in the order and the cases defined in the Constitution of Ukraine and in the laws of Ukraine. So, your honors, until you make complex changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, this is a worthless bill. Why are you putting the President in such a position? Call him off, introduce a normal bill, and then we'll consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u34	I don't see any contradiction to what we're saying with what you said. Indeed, this will be determined by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. And as to what's a good idea, I completely agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u35	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u36	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please tell me if this is a duplication of the actual existing petitions that are on the Cabinet of Ministers, the President, the Supreme Council, where citizens can, by collecting 25,000 signatures, propose a review of a bill or submit their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u37	If you analyze the subject of electronic petitions, you'll see that electronic petitions are submitted for consideration of applications, proposals, complaints, etc., socio-economic, political and other issues. The subject of the people's legislative initiative is a completely different matter. The problems of an entirely different order that need to be addressed at the level of the Constitution of the fundamental and at the level of the relevant law or laws in the implementation plan of the procedures.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u38	Thank you, thank you, Olga Volodymyr. Let's move on to the discussion from the MP factions of the national MPs. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u39	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to point out that the "Fatherland" faction will vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda and sending the bill to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Of course, it is possible to make warnings about this issue, especially for which the Supreme Council was actually elected. There is a government, there is an institution of the Presidency, which is empowered by the people of organs, entities, and institutions that should be professionally involved in the legislative work. But literally three of these. First. The key point of the 5th article of the Constitution is that the people bear sovereignty and the only source of authority in Ukraine. The people exercise authority directly through government authorities and local authorities. Yes, we have government authorities, we have local self-government agencies, and where is the people directly? The other one. In recent times, we have all witnessed the violent, unrestrained and objective development of civil society. Examples include numerous associations, associations, alliances, federations, or community of citizens. Their goal is that they and their people want to be heard, for the truth is that there is too much gap today between the common people and the authorities. Dear colleagues, in the most prosperous country in the world of Switzerland, few people know the names of the state's leaders, but we all know that the vast majority of the issues there are resolved directly by the people in the referendums, which are held every year at both national and regional levels. Maybe that's why we don't have shocks and that's why we don't have the usual social tension. And the last. As early as June last year, the "Fatherland" party, taking into account this state of affairs in society, initiated the "New Course of Ukraine", where the main place was to make such changes to the Basic Law, which to the maximum would provide for the true people, including the right of the people to legislative initiative. The best in Ukraine experts in the queen’s constitutional process have already worked out appropriate mechanisms, tools, and we are ready to place them in the language of the relevant law. So once again, we vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u40	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, our parliamentary group "For the Future" supports the draft Act amending article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for the legislative initiative of the people), dividing the opinion of fellow members of the people's deputies that the people are the source of authority and may be the subject of a legislative initiative alongside this initiative that belongs to the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ukrainian National Deputies. At the same time, we are paying attention, colleagues, to the fact that we are in a bit of a hurry in this case, because we are paying attention to the fact that there is not yet a legislative mechanism in Ukraine to implement proposals to give people the right to legislative initiative, and it is clear that, in our view, in parallel with the proposed bill that we are sending to the Constitutional Court, we should register a draft law to regulate cases and order the people to implement the law of legislative initiative. It wouldn't hurt each other. And we wouldn't be discussing with you right now, as they say, what we don't think of is coffee thick, as it is in European practice, in world practice, as it is in Switzerland, as it is in Belarus, how many votes we need to collect, we would already have a bill to push away from, with a clearly prescribed procedure for such a legislative initiative that belongs to the people. We also point out that we are concerned that, along with such an initiative that is being put forward by the majority today, there is another interesting bill of 1040, which we will probably soon consider, is the right of the legislative initiative to the people's deputies, which limits this initiative to the people's deputies and narrows them down to the smallest faction in Parliament, i.e. up to 20 people. I think that we should look just as closely at this bill, so that by expanding the rights of the people, we do not narrow down our rights directly, because we do not forget that we represent the people in the same way and we are part of it as Ukraine's elected national deputies, who are on proportional lists, who are in major districts. So that we don't send ourselves directly to spam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u42	Thank you. Zabrodski Mikhailo Vitaliyovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u43	Mikhail Zabrodsky, European Solidarity. Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u44	Mikola Knieżicki, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u45	Thank you. Dear friends, when I see such a bill, I mention the famous poem about the king, and you remember, "From the morning of the husband, the sandwich is the thought of the people and the iqra doesn't crawl into the throat and the comote is not poured into the mouth." So in this bill. Why? It's actually a very good idea because it's essentially a way of representing democracy that exists in many countries, for example, in Poland. In the Polish Constitution as well as in ours, the subject of the legislative initiative should be noted. In Poland this subject of the legislative initiative is 100,000 citizens. It also states that such bills are not passed, for example, on budget issues, on other important issues. And when they do, there has to be financial justification or the state can implement it. And these standards are not only written in the bill of profile, but also in the Constitution itself, it's a very convenient tool for opposition. So when we saw that rule in the law, we were delighted because opposition is used in all countries. But when we add only one word "people" and actually not mentioning either the subject of the initiative or the mechanism of implementation, they take away the right to consult the people in opposition. So from this point of view, we're going to vote against it. We'll give you alternatives. And insist that it be clearly defined in the Constitution, how many citizens, what conditions and how citizens' rights should be protected in the Constitution during the legislative initiative. Or we'll talk about the people and the sandwich again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u46	Vašilko Lesia Volodymyrna, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u47	I give the word to Oleg Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u48	Oleg Makarov is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, a bill has been submitted for our consideration, the essence of which is completely inconsistent with the title of the law. The bill states that this is an amendment to article 93 of the Constitution on the legislative initiative of the people, and in fact it is a bill restricting the legislative initiative of the deputies of the Supreme Council. If you're reading. [[Applause]] If we read the law, we're among the subjects of submission, except for the President, the Cabinet of Ministers and the People's Deputies, we get the word "people." But we continue to read that this initiative is being implemented in cases and in order as defined by the Constitution of Ukraine and attention! - the laws of Ukraine. Now look at the registered laws of Ukraine, including the amendment of certain laws of Ukraine regarding the right of the legislative initiative of the national MPs. Thus, the law states that only MPs who have joined together to submit a bill of at least a small fraction have the right to submit a bill. What about the cheerleaders? What if five deputies just want to submit a very important bill? Is it called anti-spam? No, it is the struggle against the rights of national deputies, as set out and provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine. How should these rights be combated by the new authorities? The only way to name the word "people" and sign under it is to limit the legislative initiative of MPs. This law does not contain any mechanism, even an indication of how the people will exercise their right. As a matter of fact, every MP now, every citizen has a deputy mayor who can pass the law, is an element of electronic petitions, there are other ways of the people of the representative line, which are stipulated by the Ukrainian Law, including by electronic petitions as I said. The faction of the political party "The Voice" is not going to support this bill as a bill aimed at restricting the right of the legislative initiative of the MPs and is also involved, unfortunately, in the rigid population. Thank you. And I propose to all the other factions that understand what this is about not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u50	The word is given to Netzko Alexander Alexanderovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u51	Your Honor, fellow MPs, it's a very important question and it matters in principle. I want to remind you that from the theoretical, practical point of view, when we talk about democracy, we're talking about two basic forms of democracy. This is representative democracy, Parliament. And secondly, it's either a direct democracy or a direct democracy. Direct or direct democracy and this, mentioned in article 69 of our Constitution, provides for three basic instruments. First of all, it's a referendum. Second, it's a recall, so-called "recalls." And thirdly, it's a national initiative. Another name of the national initiative, which may even be more widely distributed in European legislation, is the civil initiative. But that doesn't change the point. I want to remind MPs that there is a civil initiative, or a national legislative initiative, in countries like Switzerland, the United States, where it is actively used, Argentina, Canada, Germany. Poland and Lithuania also have laws on civil initiative. That is, in the most progressive countries, it exists. And there is no contradiction to the initiative in the form of representative power. I want to look to all colleagues who support the integration of Ukraine. It should be recalled that one of the main trends in the development of European Union law is the expansion of direct democracy, as evidenced by the so-called European Civil Initiative, which was adopted and implemented as a novel through the Lisbon Treaty. That is, if we want Ukraine to become a member of the European Union, we need to develop the institutions of direct direct direct democracy. These institutions, in the form of a national legislative initiative, are developing civil society, developing democracy, and bringing our country closer to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u52	Thank you. We invite Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u53	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" will vote in favour of this bill. We are in favour of expanding the authority and representation of the Ukrainian people, fully implementing article 5 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and detailing article 6. We need to anticipate the participation of the people in the judiciary as well, and this can be a mechanism for the election of judges, and the participation of the people, the people of Ukraine in the executive power -- this can also be predicted not by fictitious public councils or by grants of some kind, but by normal representation of the people. So we accept this bill positively. But. And this is where "but" starts, and we have expectations for the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, because, you know, the Constitution of Ukraine, it's not that simple. Even if you read article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, it provides that the right of legislative initiative belongs (if you have read very carefully) to the Ukrainian people’s deputies (in the plural). And now I know that there might be a temptation to drive every national MP into such a "kolgosp" with a view to somehow nullifying the separate legislative initiative of every Ukrainian national deputy, including a majority. As far as this is concerned, it will be prescribed by law. Dear colleagues, read carefully the Constitution of Ukraine. If it were that simple, for example, in 72 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, where it is clearly regulated: "the All-Ukrainian referendum on the People's Initiative", and it continues to be written "3 million signatures." In two thirds of the area, at least 100,000 in each area. Why did the legislator and fathers of our Constitution write this? Because if we write down and leave it the way it is, as in the previous government, there will be the temptation of a particular part of people to call the people of Ukraine a part of the territorial representation of this nation. And here we have to make clear in the Constitution that Ukraine is equal representation of all the territorial units, the administrative and territorial units of Ukraine. Because if there was such a law in the past calling, we would never have this anti-national, illegal Language Law, which is clearly and clearly not a law that would somehow distribute Ukrainian as a national language. Read carefully, this is the law of direct banning the language of national minorities — Romanian, Bulgarian, Russian, Crimean Tatar. And then we wouldn't have any persecution against the Church. Therefore, we absolutely support the wisdom of the people, which is in such important laws as this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u54	Let me make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u55	in such important laws as the Law on Human Rights, such as the Law on Freedom of Conscience and many other things. We will uphold this law. We look forward to the conclusion of the Constitutional Court. And we hope that we will work on it to such a degree of constitutionality that it will not have a double interpretation and that the people will fully exercise their right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u56	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, regulation. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the national MPs of Ukraine. Rublov Vjacheslav Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, Volin, 20 constituency, Servant of the People. I think that this bill has long been on time, it really needs to be supported, especially since we've had the social demand for the national legislative initiative a long time ago. That is why I fully support the policies of President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine. I believe that the "Serial of the People" faction today should support and encourage deputies from other factions and MPs and non-factional groups to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u58	Thank you. Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. Irina Volodymyr's Hero, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u59	Please pass the word to Rostislav Pavlovka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u60	You're gonna make up your mind because you have one. Heratchenko's here. He's a hero, isn't he? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u61	Thank you, Mr. Arthur, for handing over the word to me, not to Rostislav Pavlovenko, he is next in line. Dear colleagues, we are now discussing extremely important bills. But you know, I want to say that when changes to the Constitution are being discussed, always in this room, which was the island of democracy in Ukraine's most difficult and important hours and days -- in the days of the Dignity Revolution, in the days of the Maidan, public were called upon to discuss the key laws, experts, round tables were held. What do we see now? When bills are discussed in haste, not even the Presidential faction, because we see them confused in each article. You didn't hold any expert tables, you didn't invite any activists and public figures who would be happy to say as a people who gave their votes for all the political parties and forces that are here, that they think about these initiatives. And in fact, you're doing these things today, as never before, you're already encroaching on the right of the people to give their assessment to these novels, absolutely free of charge, often written, which we're discussing. And notice, you don't have 300 votes. The only vote that has so far taken 300 votes is a bill to remove the intactness of President Prashenko, who had a broad public debate where there was a position of public activists and experts. In fact, you've already restricted the right of the legislative initiative of MPs from opposition, because you initially cut the deadline for the submission of alternative bills. Secondly, you haven't even done it because less than five days have been given the opportunity to discuss and collect 150 signatures and put it to a vote today. And actually, this is already a very vivid example of how you view the opposition, the minority that represents 40 percent of the voters who put us here, and how you really feel about the expert opinion. Well, it's the key. Dear Mr. Head, I would like to say that all the parliaments that have worked before this all vocations here, in the course of the constitutional changes, must have sent bills to the Supreme Council for expertization by the Venice Commission. We're addressing you, all of these seven bills voted today by the session hall, by your decision to send to the Venice Commission. If you don't, it's not just going to be a sign of unprofessionality, it's going to be a violation of democracy. And we, our political power, have already drafted a draft decree to refer these bills to the Venice Commission. And we're convinced that even here the factions that say they're in the minority show that they're really not the right hand of the underground party of power to sign these decrees, we're going to put them together in the agenda, we're going to vote and we're going to send the laws all of these to the Venice Commission for expertise. Let's see what they're going to tell you about your inadequacies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u62	Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u63	Rostislav Pavlovenko, "European Solidarity". Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, national MPs, you know, similar initiatives are similar to the story of a 90s cab driver who asks where we're going and how much he says, "You sit down and we'll see." Because a bill of such a level that gives the people the right to legislative initiative is obliged to have a concrete view of the grounds for such a right, the subject of such a right, the mechanism for the exercise of such a right, because otherwise, indeed, as colleagues have said here, it seems that it is a bill on restricting Ukrainian national MPs. Because in the portfolio we see drafts of Laws No. 1038 -- about how all national MPs are to be part of factions and groups; 1039 -- about how laws will now be regulated, how to discuss bills in the second reading. Most of your colleagues, you listen, because that's the same for you. Project 1040, where it is determined that not a national MP should submit draft laws, and they should group by faction or majority in the committee in principle. You know, when you recently talked about journalists being redundant, we now see MPs becoming redundant. So the question is, who's going to be too much for you at the next stage? Therefore, honourable colleagues, we urge you not to vote, not to support this bill. We encourage him to call off, to really discuss with experts, with colleagues, to present a version that will predict what it is like in other countries (both Poland, Italy, and others) how the people can implement their legislative initiative. Then we will present and discuss, and we will receive support. And I support a colleague's proposal to refer to the Venice Commission those projects that will still be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u64	The word is given to Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u65	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please give me the word of Shumar Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u66	Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is obvious that the legislative right of the people must be realized and implemented in all countries of the world through a referendum. We urge our colleagues now to start working on a new law that would give the people that right. But to introduce such a rule into the Constitution, not by regulating, but in what way will the people exercise their right to legislative initiative -- well, if you'll excuse me, it's also some kind of legal nihilism. That's the first one. And the second is obviously that this law is more about restricting the right of the legislative initiative to the national MPs of Ukraine, and of course, first of all, opposition, the rights of opposition. Now I'm being covered up by a colleague, and I can't even see, you see, that's the limit that's already going on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I think we've had such a special landing, so I'm so traditionally welcome from the gallery, I'm handing it over. But what I want to point out is, colleagues, do we really need to make it clear that this is a special order? Because during the election, the people of Ukraine chose national deputies to make specific commitments and rights, including the right of the subject of the legislative initiative of the individual MP. And changing these conditions for now is a constraint, and it's no different. What's more, what's the order, how many people are there? Given the circumstances of the situation in the hall, it's a really serious change and, I think, it's a threat to parliamentaryism in Ukraine, as it is, because we're left with the President's full rights at that time, we're left with the Cabinet of Ministers, and the MPs in their special order are obviously going to be, you know, kind of on the side of the process. I would then, without speaking for long, urge my colleagues not to turn themselves into green buttons on the board of their monitors. Thank you. You're national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u68	Thank you. First of all, I think that the rights and duties of everyone in this room are equal, in all national MPs, regardless of party membership or even sex. That's the first one. The other one. What about sending the law to the Venice Commission? One way is not to interfere with the other, and at the same time, with the Constitutional Court, we can also refer it to the Venice Commission. And I invite you to the word of Calchenk Sergey Vitaliyovich, the faction of the political party "Slut of the People," from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u69	I also agree with colleagues from the Committee on European Integration who have accepted the recommendation to send those draft amendments to the Constitution, at the same time as the decision to refer to the Constitutional Court, to the Council of Europe's Venice Commission, because it is an authority and, let's say, it is not a duty, but since Ukraine is a country that is a member of a civilized Europe, it is to some extent an obligation to take those thoughts into account. But this should be done with sincere intent, not as was the case with Bill 7203, when two years after the adoption of the document by the Venice Commission, a bill was introduced to amend the Constitution, and a year later, a reason had emerged for the process to be halted. So it's a good idea if she's really going to be able to do it now. And I don't think that's going to take a separate decision from the Supreme Council, because the Head, as head of Parliament, can do it on his own and that's the practice. But once again, after the opinion of the Venice Commission, it must also be used sincerely so as not to be the case with Bill 5522. When the Venice Commission reached a conclusion on a bill to amend the Rules. Did they come to a conclusion, and what? And this bill wasn't even adopted in the first reading, it's not even one of the transitionals. So let us, after all, follow such a tradition, do something with good intentions, sincere intentions, conscientiously, and then do it conscientiously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u70	Thank you. You're welcome. The Ukrainian National Deputy President of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Fedir Volodymyrovich Venislavski, is invited to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u71	Thank you, Your Honor! Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! Today you and I have heard a lot of horrors about why people cannot be given the right to legislative initiative. Because the people are not capable, the people are stupid, the people cannot respond adequately to the challenges facing our nation, etc. Dear National Deputies! I want you and I not to speculate at the level of our people, our people are wise enough, and he has shown this over and over and over again, in the most difficult situations of our history. As far as the bill is concerned. First, according to our colleagues, the order and the basis for the realization of the right of the people to their legislative initiative will be provided for in the Constitution and in the law of Ukraine. Today, the Constitution clearly foresees cases of special entities implementing the right of legislative initiative. These are the same bills for amending the Constitution of Ukraine, which require a special circle of subjects. This is about the draft State Budget Act, where the exclusive right to submit such a bill is limited to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and other entities do not have the right to do so. So for today, the Constitution of Ukraine provides concrete grounds for the implementation of the right of legislative initiative on specific areas. That is why the bill, which is now proposed to be put into the agenda and sent to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, applies the formula that is in the order and cases provided for in the Constitution and in the law of Ukraine. So there are no problems in our view right now, we ask you to support the bill for registration number 1015, to include it in the agenda of the day session and to refer it to the Constitutional Court to reach its conclusion that it complies with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u72	Thank you. You're welcome. The Vice-President of the Committee on Legal Policy, Olga Volodymyrn Sougir, is invited to conclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to two points: one of the political forces said that if we gave the people the right to draft a bill, it would limit the opposition. In this regard, I have a rhetorical question to you: In whose interests does this opposition then take place? This is the first question and the second question. Second question. The second is that the Constitution does not contain appropriate procedures. The Constitution is a fundamental fundamental document, all procedures related to the implementation of its provisions will be laid down in the relevant law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u74	Thank you. Colleagues, you. We can argue a lot here and have a discussion about it, and the people can, and not the people can. I would like to remind you that all of us in this room today, thanks to the people who came, have voted for us to work here. So if he chose us here, he'll be able to take good legislative initiatives. So I suggest we move on to making a decision. In accordance with article 146 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I am voting for the adoption of the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 1015/P) on the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth call for a bill amending article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the legislative initiative of the people and its referral to the Constitutional Court. Please support and vote. [[17:04:58]] For 338 Thank you. For 338, against 43, holding four. Show by factions. The decision is taken, the decision is taken as a whole. "Serve of the People" – 245, "Response Platform" – 32, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 18, "For the Future" – 16, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 27. My colleagues, thank you. I suggest we move on to the next question of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law (Registration No. 1016) amending articles 85 and 101 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for the authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine) is being submitted to our consideration. According to the requirements of part one of article 146 of the Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. The report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u75	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend articles 85 and 101 of the Ukrainian Constitution (for the authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine). The content of this bill is as follows. Today, according to article 101 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Institute of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, which exercises parliamentary control over the observance of human rights and freedoms. At the same time, the practice of modern life shows that in some areas other specialized Supreme Council officials are needed to exercise equal parliamentary control over the observance of legislation in certain areas of social relations. In particular, the issue is that in addition to the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights in practice, there is a need for the existence of an authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for the Rights of the Child, an authorized Supreme Council for the Rights of Military Servants, an authorized Supreme Council for the Protection of Personal Data, an authorized Supreme Council for access to personal data, access to information, and so on. That is, real life today requires independent institutions of parliamentary control in various fields. Similarly, the requirement of our Western partners is to create independent parliaments in certain spheres of social life, which I have already mentioned, particularly the protection of personal data. Therefore, the bill proposes to extend the right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has been called upon today by individual national deputies. As you can see, the President is concerned not only with the expansion of his constitutional powers, but more faithfully with the strengthening of the constitutional powers that he now has legally, but also with the strengthening of the broader powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to create individuals authorized in particular spheres. Therefore, we ask you to support this bill, to include it in the agenda of the day session and to refer it to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to obtain a conclusion on its compliance with the requirements of articles 156, 157 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u76	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up for questions. The word is Schrom Aloni Ivanovni, a faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u77	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Again, thank you, Mr. Reporter, for giving us a little bit of insight into the concept of the very authorized ones. But look what the story is for me, for example. I'm going to vote in favour of referring to the Constitutional Court, but it's still just a referral to the Constitutional Court, but I'd really like it before we sent the draft amendments to the Constitution, even to the Constitutional Court, to understand at least a little bit of the concept of who it would be, which would be authorized, which would be the areas in which the procedure for their election would be. I think it's very important, for example, that these are not the members of the Supreme Council who are handed over by specific political forces and factions, but, as in Sweden, they are not politicians, they're professional or, for example, lawyers, if they're authorized by human rights, or other experts in the areas that you've listed. And in principle, it is important for me to understand both the procedure for their selection and their assignment, and on which issues they will report and follow, and what mechanisms will they have. In order to vote in my first reading, it is essential that I understand these things and that there be public discussion on these issues. I think it's gonna be the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u78	Thank you for asking. I would like to remind my honourable colleagues that, today, the Supreme Council for Human Rights is just as firmly established in the Constitution of Ukraine as an institution, and the order in which it is elected, the requirements for members, the applicant for the post of Commissioner, its terms of office, and so on are fixed at the level of law. That's why we are honourable colleagues with you, because of the legislative regulation, we foresee the procedures that will best suit the interests of the Ukrainian people, the Western, the most advanced European practice. And I think we can work it out effectively. Now, once again, it's about getting into the agenda and sending it to the Constitutional Court for conclusions. By the time we reach the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, we will have the opportunity to start working actively on a draft of the relevant law, which will provide for those issues that you just talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u79	Thank you. Prince Ruslan Petrovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u80	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear reporter, I can't see you, I'm afraid, because young colleagues here have some origins, walk around the hall and interfere, but that's the thing. I have a question for the next character. I am so impressed that the subject of the legislative initiative did not read the bill. Because if he were to read it, he would have learned that we are creating an institution to guarantee compliance with the Ukrainian Constitution, which is the President, in the form of some other authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have in our second article 102 of the Constitution the only guarantee of compliance with the Constitution. And you're here, you said that they're going to be guarantors of law enforcement, and somehow you've shyly missed the Constitution. But the text is about the Constitution of Ukraine. Can you imagine that we small guarantors are the result of Parliament's decision because of such changes in the Constitution? Why is this being done?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u81	Thank you for asking. The point is that the Constitution of Ukraine will provide separate institutions that will carry out the very function of parliamentary control over the enforcement of legislation in certain areas by analogy that is being carried out today by the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights. Commissioners of the Supreme Council in certain areas will be responsible for parliamentary control over compliance with the Constitution, in compliance with Ukrainian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u82	Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u83	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, this bill raises more questions than answers. I fully agree with my colleague Knazevitch's position, we cannot create a dozen quasi-presidents who are responsible for their control, for their compliance with the Constitution, for their first time. Secondly, my fellow Members, this bill reduces the powers of the respective committees. Because, according to the state of affairs of today, enforcement of legislation is part of the parliamentary committee’s mandate. Third, when we're told that it doesn't matter when we apply to the Venice Commission, it's not exactly the case. Because once we've sent the bill to the Constitutional Court to reach a conclusion, once we've reached a conclusion, we can't change any coma in this bill, and then we won't be able to implement any conclusions of the Venice Commission if they come. So it's all in the complex that leaves a lot more questions plus we're offered the train first.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u84	Let me make a deal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u85	Thank you, Mr. Head. We are offered a train ahead of the horse on a regular basis. We don't even see the concept that comes out, the reporter says, well, they're going to be so authorized, and tomorrow he's going to decide that they're going to be so authorized, and then he's going to decide that there's going to be ten times more authorized, fifteen times more, that's not correct. Propose the concept, reflect the basic principles of it in the Constitution, and then propose the law. Why was this not done? Here's a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u86	Thank you for asking. I want to remind you that not a reporter is going to determine how many and what kind of authorized ones are, and we're with you, the honourable national MPs. It's a parliamentary institute, an institution of parliamentary control. With regard to your reply, regarding the observance of the Constitution, I would like to pay attention to your distinguished national MPs, to Article 101 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the current editorial, parliamentary control, parliamentary control over the observance of the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen, and to the exercise of the Plenipotentiary Supreme Council. When we talk about authorized persons who will exercise the same parliamentary control over the observance of constitutional and legislative provisions in certain areas, I see no problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u87	Thank you. Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Olga Volodymyrni Sougiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u88	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council at its meeting on 30 August 2019, considered the draft bill submitted by the President to amend articles 85 and 101 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine and reached such conclusions. Having examined articles 145 and 146 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Legal Policy recommends to the Supreme Council, as an immediate bill amending articles 85 and 101 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for authorized Supreme Council) (registration number 1016, from 29 August 2019). To include in the agenda of the day - to - day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the ninth call and to refer to the Constitutional Court the conclusion that it is in conformity with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. A panellist at the High Council plenary meeting identified the deputy chairman of the Sougir O.V. By adding appropriate materials, please consider the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u89	Thank you, Olga Volodymyrna. Is there a question before. Who would doubt that? Please sign up. The word is given by Savchenko Olga Stanislavni, the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u90	Please. Good afternoon. I ask you to pass the word to Calchenk Sergio Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u91	Turn on the microphone for Calchenka Sergio Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u92	Honorable Presidium, honourable, distinguished national MPs, you know, the first discussion today of Bill 7203, as far as I'm concerned, has shown some tendency in comparison to 29. There was one. This morning we heard something constructive. When we moved on to the second part of this, there is nothing like it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u93	Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u94	I didn't understand what your question was all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u95	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u96	Ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u97	No, I get it. Lubinets Dmitry Valeriyovich, MP for the Future
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u98	Lubinets, MPs for the future. Well, mate, I can see a national deputy standing on the rostrum, colleagues. Yeah, I'm sorry. I'd like to hear a specific answer, Mrs. Olga. Well, now we're voting for something so virtual, creating authorized issues. Which is the exact question of how many of them we're going to see just in the text that this set is going to be 2 or 20 or 100. What they're going to do is they don't understand what they're doing. The main thing is the report, they're going to do it in front of the Supreme Council every year, every quarter? I mean, you know, we don't mind supporting the President's initiative and yours, we're willing to vote for it. But for the time being, apart from a lot of questions, we don't understand what we really are voting for. Thank you very much. I'd like to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u99	Thank you. We are now voting in favour of the world practice of parliamentary control over the observance of human rights and freedoms, and of the citizen who specializes in the ombudsmen who exercise such parliamentary control, it's about human rights, about military personnel, about national minorities and other particularly vulnerable groups of the population, about people with limited capabilities and so on. As far as the subject is concerned, this is parliamentary control, these subjects will be representing us with you to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, our subsidiary bodies. Their appointment procedure will be provided for in the relevant law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u100	Thank you. Ion's Maria Mikolayevna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u101	Thank you. Please pass the word to Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u102	Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, one of the key functions of Parliament is to control when a national MP can expose corruption, enter state enterprises and look at all the shortcomings in their work. And even this morning, I heard from the representatives of your own "Serve of the People" faction that you've already begun to do so. Now, here's a question for a reputable reporter. Do I understand correctly that this bill completely deprives the national deputies of their control function, and they can't do that anymore? Only those authorized can do so. Yes or no? Answer under the transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u104	I'm responding to the transcript. Of course not. [[Applause]] And so is protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to a discussion between the MPs and the national MPs. Please register with factions and MPs. Thank you, Olga Volodymyrna. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u106	Thank you. Please pass the word to the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u107	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, it's the idea of having positions authorized by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, well, that's a good idea. But it would also be good to take control of the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Because over the last few years, through the Constitutional Court, Germany and I have been addressing and recovering aids and compensations to veterans of the Great Homeland War, work heroes, Chernobyl, Afghans and other categories of people who have been deprived of these benefits by the previous parliamentary coalition. However, these decisions of the most important court in our country are still unfulfilled. And that tells us that we have an existing mechanism to uphold the constitutional rights of citizens that doesn't work at all. Therefore, instead of making further changes to the Constitution, we would suggest that the government should first be obliged to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. This involves restoring people’s benefits. This refers to the unconstitutional recognition of the pension reform of Ukraine. This refers to the unconstitutional decisions of the previous Parliament. That's why we're asking you, Mr. Speaker, to put this question on personal parliamentary control and to see that the government implements the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And the second question. And this is the most important question we consider to be a question of peace. The faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" has registered a package of bills. That's 25 bills. And the most important question that we're asking there is the question of achieving peace and social protection for the people. Dear colleagues, well, we can certainly continue to make changes to the Constitution indefinitely. But today the whole country is looking to us for responsible decisions. A decision that would really change the lives of people today, not after any changes have been made to the Constitution. Therefore, we insist that next parliamentary week we begin by considering issues relating to peace, social protection of citizens and the protection of every family and every person in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u109	Thank you. But, dear fellow Members, let us go on with the issues that are being considered today. I think it's going to be right for our colleagues and for the TV set. The word is given to Tsimbaluku Mikhailovich, a faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u110	Please pass the word to Alona Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u111	Turn on Aloni Shkrum's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u112	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, as in the previous question, this question, you see, is causing a heated discussion, because we don't understand to this day the concept of changes to legislation: who will be authorized to do so, from which objects will they be, from which objects of knowledge, how they will be chosen or appointed, what functions they will have; whether they will be independent, whether they will be representatives of political forces or political factions. And, you know, the devil's always in the details. Therefore, the "Fatherland" faction is ready to vote in favour of sending this bill to the Constitutional Court, but before the first reading, we would very much like to start a large parliamentary discussion, a public discussion, and to understand the concept that we have set up today, I understand, Mr. President Greensky, and to remind you that, nevertheless, the Ombudsman Institute is an institution of parliamentary control. It's not the president's, it's the parliamentary control. And authorized, it represents the entire Supreme Council, and it is for it to be independent of any sphere it will pursue, that is, a great task for this Parliament and for this convening. I also had the privilege of studying the Ombudsman’s Institute in Sweden, where he appeared in his day in the 15th century, if I am not mistaken, and then Karl XI was busy in war, and he needed a mandate to control the exercise of human rights and freedoms against the will of officials. I'm literally quoting this, this is how I predicted this institution. In Sweden, for today, there are, if I'm not mistaken, about four authorized. I understand that the same system was taken here. But I would like to remind you that this should be the control over the observance of human rights and freedoms, not as President Greensky points out today, monitoring compliance with laws and the Constitution. Because monitoring compliance with the laws and the Constitution is guaranteed by the President himself. And this control, including the Supreme Council, is carried out as an authority to control executive power and to control compliance with the laws and Constitution of Ukraine, which we approve on behalf of the Ukrainian people. That's why Fatherland is going to vote in favour now, and we've made this decision. But we need to understand before the first reading, even after the Constitutional Court's consideration, please, the concept of this bill, the concept of the Ombudsman's Institute at all. How do you see it, what objects, what functions, who will be chosen, who will be entrusted with such functions, and what powers will these people be entrusted with? And only after a big public discussion do I think we can adopt this bill in the first reading. You know, you can fertilize a lot of power institutions. But it's important that all institutions work to make them independent both from Parliament and from the President. In particular, institutions such as the Court of Auditors, the Central Electoral Commission, the Antimonopoly and the Authorized. Not so many are the parliamentary institutions of control that have to monitor the observance of human laws, rights and freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u113	Thank you. The word is given to Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u114	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! Well, the next day we're discussing the application to the Constitutional Court. The new initiative, as I said before, is not understood. The very logic of the initiative seems to be good. On the other hand, I have simple questions. The committees need the Supreme Council to make it smaller. The ministries need it to get smaller. The MPs need to get smaller. And the powers of the Supreme Council to uphold the Constitution and the various spheres have increased. So if we get out of this logic, we've created committees. Committees are distributed by subject matter of knowledge. The function of each Supreme Council committee is controlling. In fact, each committee controls in its field of implementation of the laws of Ukraine and the Constitution of Ukraine, and also respect for the rights of people and citizens, why create additional bodies that are not clear, which will finance them, is an additional burden on the budget. How will we appoint them? Who's going to apply? I certainly support what our colleague in Fatherland said, if they're political actors, that's one thing, if they're public figures, that's another. Because right now we're talking about a pretty good question, but there are so many questions in the people's deputies that it's just simple advice to most: the next time you propose, let's at least take a look in advance at what the specifics of this bill are. Therefore, the parliamentary group "For the Future" supports and votes in favour of sending this bill to the Constitutional Court. In doing so, we note that if we see, after receiving the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, any failure to comply with the Constitution, we will not vote and we will not multiply organs that are still large in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u115	Thank you. The word is given to the first deputy head of the "Sergeance of the People" faction of Cornienne Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u116	Please pass the word to Dennis the Monastery.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u117	Turn on the microphone, please, Dennis Anatolyevich Monastery.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, in recent years, we have heard one of the biggest problems of Ukrainian parliamentaryism -- insufficient parliamentary control. The question is also the subject of the knowledge of each individual committee. Let's also remember with you when you and I defined a list of committees and cut down on this list that made our comments? You shorten certain objects and certain spheres will not be covered by certain committees and will not be monitored. In this case, you and I, together with the President, are strengthening our ability to exercise parliamentary control, so I propose to support this bill. The next time, of course, we will give and study with you the practices of other countries that referred to other reporters. It is in Sweden, which has been mentioned, and elsewhere. I think that the Ukrainian Parliament should use all means to properly exercise parliamentary control. And we agree with you that every committee, this is the task of every committee, one of which I also represent and lead today, is to strengthen in all directions of parliamentary control. And if the specials are authorized, it'll just give us some extra possibilities. That's why I'm here to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u119	Fedia Sofia Romanovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u120	Fedina Sofia, European Solidarity. Please pass the word to Oleg the Synth.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u121	The word is passed on to Oleg Sinyutka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that at first glance every national MP who will refer to this bill on constitutional changes, he sees that this bill seems to provide us with additional powers. And if we look at our pre-election rhetoric, we all promised people that we would change the country and, of course, we need, as the Ukrainian Parliament, good authority and good opportunities. And at first glance, that's why this bill might look attractive. But, dear colleagues, let's think about the essence of this bill, first of all, and this confirms the discussion that's going on in this room, this is a continuation of the practice that was during the election campaign, we haven't shown the bill itself, and each of the national deputies imagines that in these changes to the Constitution there will be something that he thinks about and, imagining these things, he probably wants to vote for it. But with such a diversity of views, I think he has the right to live another treatise that has sounded in this room today, in the towers. It seems to me that it's someone who, by failing or failing or wanting to translate from Russian, has translated the institution "lookers" as authorized. And I think this is a huge threat right now. First of all, I'd like to address the MPs from the "Serve of the People" Party. We have the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committees Act. And article 14 of this law clearly states: the control function of committees. Dear colleagues, I urge you not to buy and you don't buy a cat in a bag. And so by voting in favour of this bill and by launching a constitutional procedure, so that it doesn't just happen that the control functions that are currently envisaged by the Committees of the Supreme Council are just going to be passed on to one person. And not the fact that this person would be competent and would reflect the position of a committee of profile on a particular issue. I am even more concerned that someone might not want to interfere with the justice system in general with such changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. So today it's clear that it's possible to duplicate these functions. I don't want to talk about it anymore because it's been said that we're all creating an additional state of officials that we're going to keep at the expense of money. And one more thing, and I'm very sorry, I'm not going to talk about the procedure for violating draft legislation, but the Committee on Legal Policy in its opinion finds it inappropriate to send a bill for consideration by scientists, legal and other things. Me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u123	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u124	It seems to me that this is a certain fear and fear of professional position. With this in mind, "European Solidarity" will not support this bill and calls on the people's advocates not to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u125	The word is given to Jaroslav Jurczyn, faction of the political party "The Voice". Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u126	Yes, thank you very much. I'll be out of place, because actually the observation is brief. It's not exactly true in the explanatory note, yes. That is, we promised our voters that we would speak honestly. The explanatory note states that the introduction of additional authorized ones, which will duplicate the functions of the Human Rights Commissioner himself, who will duplicate the control functions that the Supreme Council committees still have, does not require any financial costs. That's absurd. Because if we look at the fact that even the Office of the Commissioner for Human Rights, who is constantly complaining about underemployment, about the need to expand authority, now has a separate article in the budget. So the respectable voters, the respectable colleagues in the hall, this empty one, in fact, norm that doesn't create extra possibilities, but just duplicates functions, is going to get the money out of the budget. We've come under the terms of the economy, and now we're being asked to extend the actual cost of the budget and spend more on what the people of Ukraine are spending, that is, keeping the office of the Commissioner from human rights, and also the parliamentary committees. There is no need to duplicate functions, no need to go further into the electoral pocket, there is a possibility at law level to give quality powers. Again, the list of authorized persons who have been read by a colleague from the rostrum makes it clear that making such changes to the Constitution is not appropriate. Effective power is the power that does what is needed and does not do anything. In this case, we've spent budgetary time reviewing this bill. Now we're creating conditions when we're spending extra money. Our citizens are not rich enough to provide additional support for those still in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the speeches by the Ukrainian National Deputies. The word is given to Gerasim's Arthur Volodymyrovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u128	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Especially the most respectable colleagues from the "Serve of the People" faction! The "European Solidarity" faction takes a constructive opposition position. Why is this important? Because we always point to decisions and point out where there are really problems that need to be solved. And today I've asked you to listen to the presentations of all the factions that today are drawing your attention to I would say, gross violations. And the question is: Conscious or unconscious, which are allowed in the text of this bill. Because when we talk about the guarantees of the Constitution, the only guarantor of the Constitution in this country is the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, you've now decided, I understand, to eliminate the position of President of Ukraine if you're bringing this here. The guarantees of constitutional rights, I agree, are the right construction. But the guarantees of the Constitution go to any professional constitutionalist lawyer, and he'll tell you about it. Next question. I got an answer from a colleague who reported to the committee. I think that all representatives, especially the "Serial of the People" faction, need to remember this answer, that the control function of Parliament will be preserved and will not suffer in any way. Because there is a strong impression that unfortunately, after that, the law may completely suspend the control function of the national deputy, the completely suspended control function of the parliamentary committees, the completely suspended control function of the interim commissions of inquiry, because they will be authorized and the national deputies will say so, delegate control powers to these commissioners. I would like to say that there's a steady impression that many bills have a double bottom, there's a double meaning, there's a double meaning. Dear colleagues, I would ask you to write more clearly those bills that deal with changes to the Constitution and dispel any doubts, and the approach to this is very simple, just as they did all the time during the presidency of Peter Poroshenko. First. This must be addressed to the Venice Commission in particular with regard to changes to the Constitution. And the second question is a broad public discussion. Discussion with experts, discussion with the public, discussion with experts, and explaining to them what is going on there to make mistakes, especially strategic mistakes for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u129	Thank you. Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich is invited to the floor, which is nonfractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, for example, I don't mind being authorized by the Supreme Council, but it's not clear that the Constitution doesn't say what their function is, what they're going to do. Secondly, it's very interesting and I'd like to see what else we've made in the Constitution, what changes to opposition. And the best control is the opposition itself, not some misunderstood positions. Furthermore, I would like to understand that these are authorized, to what extent will they be provided by the Supreme Council? They're supposed to have equipment, rooms, budget funding. How much is this going to cost the budget? And I'll remind you that we have the control functions of the Supreme Council committees, which no one has changed, so we could also change the control functions of the committees, and we could also attach certain committees behind the opposition, and so on. I mean, we would still like to have some complex approach to solving the problem of parliamentary control. Just write "authorized"! Okay, we're going to vote now. But then what? What is their potential, their function, what authority, what responsibility for obstructing their activities, and so on and so forth? Could there be national deputies or could they not be authorized? And the other way around. I mean, I'd like a normal system approach. And ask Mr. Speaker to consider creating a working group on this issue, including representatives of various MPs and factions, just non-faction MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u131	Thank you. The word is given to Sukhov Aleksandro Sergiyyovich, who is nonfractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u132	Alexander Sukhov, 107th District, Luganshina. Please pass the word to Sergey the Great.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u133	Turn on Sergey's mic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u134	Thank you, Alexandra Sukhova, for your word. Reverend, Luganskina, 112 district. Shahov's team and the Luhansk people's deputies support this bill. In view of the need for parliamentary control over compliance with Ukraine's Constitution, the laws of Ukraine in the district where they gave us trust. And if we see what kind of bills we're going to vote on next, it's going to be a proportional election system. And after that, I think that there will be few representatives, national deputies, defenders in the district, and so I think that this is my subjective opinion, that there will be no control by the national deputy, who has been chosen, who has been trusted, who can now control the enforcement of laws and in the next one will lie on those employees of the Supreme Council who will monitor compliance with the laws that we will adopt. We will uphold this law and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u135	Thank you. Susko Pavlov Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u136	Please pass the word to Irina Venedict.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u137	Irina Vendiktov, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u138	Guys, thank you so much for saying that. In fact, today we really have very important changes to the Constitution. These changes are ripe and must be accepted because we remember that the Constitution is a social treaty with society. When we listen to our parliamentarians today in the session room, they talk on the one hand about being very limited in rights. But literally in five minutes, they say that the rights are too misunderstood, extended and so on. So let's be consistent. If we're saying that we want to develop parliamentaryism, if we really want to get involved in this and national initiatives, we need to understand that we are all really, representatives of all political forces, that man is the highest value in the state. If so, let us do the things that society really requires of us. The appearance of those authorized by the Supreme Council, first of all, is really giving us additional opportunities both for parliamentary control, including, and for the preservation and maintenance of our electorate. So to intimidate the national MPs who are in this room, as you say, by non-systemic changes, makes no sense. Because the Constitution does not have to be broken by regulations. The Constitution is our Bible, it's the basic principles that we live by. And we can propose further in our legislative work, and you can also propose bills, how you see the regulation of these legal relationships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u139	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to conclude the discussion and a national deputy of Ukraine, the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovic, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u140	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a little surprised as an expert in the field of the right to listen to most of the comments about this last bill that we're currently considering, about the inclusion in the agenda. I want to go back in retrospect by 1996. I remind you that the Constitution of Ukraine was adopted on June 28, 1996. Article 101 of the Constitution contains a very clear and unambiguous standard: Parliamentary control over the observance of human constitutional rights and freedoms and the citizen exercises the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine with human rights. Article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which strengthens the powers of the Supreme Council, contains paragraph 2. I apologize, it contains paragraph 17, which states that the powers of the Supreme Council include the appointment and release from office of the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights, the hearing of annual progress reports by the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights. I remind you, this happened on June 28th. It was only December 27, 97, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which, after a year and a year and a half, made an effort to adopt a law that regulates exactly what order the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights of the Supreme Council will be appointed, which requirements of the authorized one, what spheres of its authorization, what acts of response of the authorized one, what legal force of these acts, what legal consequences, etc. And this did not stop anyone before the Constitution introduced a standard that only a year and a half later was given legislative regulation. In contrast, we are now considering the inclusion in the agenda and the referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. We have a long period of time until this bill, which is proposed by President Zelenski as an urgent one, will be considered and finally approved by the 300 votes of Ukrainian national deputies or more, so that we can offer a model acceptable to all of us for the formation of authorized Supreme Councils, the definition of criteria for representatives of these positions, their terms of reference, etc. But the fact that the Human Rights Supreme Council is empowered to exercise parliamentary control in certain areas is necessary in this regard without question. And I want to conclude by saying that no constitutional norm, which today provides for special institutions of parliamentary control, namely committees, temporary special, temporary commissions of inquiry, will be repealed. Therefore, there is no reason to say that there is no reason for parliamentary control. So I encourage you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u141	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u142	I call on the Ukrainian People's Deputies to support the introduction of this bill into the agenda of the day session and to refer it to the Constitutional Court to obtain a conclusion on its compliance with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u143	Thank you, Feder Volodymyrovich. To conclude, the Vice - Chief of the Committee on Legal Policy, Olga Volodymyrny Sougir, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u144	Dear colleagues, we urge you not to monopolize parliamentary control over national MPs, committees or temporary special commissions. Note that under the 98th article of the Constitution of Ukraine, Parliamentary control over the coming and spending of the state budget is carried out by the Court of Auditors. Under article 113 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Parliamentary control is a very multifaceted function of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And so let's regulate this function according to the leading, global trends in parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u145	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. In accordance with article 146 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I am voting for the adoption of the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 1016/P) on the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call for a bill amending article 85 and 101 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine) and on its referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Please support and vote. [[17:52:43]] For 298 Thank you. Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. For 298, against 42, holding 18. Show the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 242, "Resistance Platform for Life" – 21, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 17, "For the Future" – 2, "Voice" – 0, non-fractional – 16. Thank you, colleagues. I suggest we move on to the next question of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law (registration No. 1017) on the amendment to article 76 and 77 of the Constitution of Ukraine (to reduce the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to strengthen the proportional electoral system) is being submitted to your consideration. According to the requirements of part one of article 146 of the Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. For the report, the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Fedor Volodymyrovich Venislavski, is given to the Ukrainian national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u146	Honorary Presidium, honourable national MPs, a bill that has just been issued under number 1017 refers to amendments to two articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. Article 76 of the Constitution provides that. The constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 450 national deputies of Ukraine, is envisaged in a valid way. The president proposes to amend this part of article 76 of the Constitution of Ukraine and to strengthen the limited number of national deputies who are to serve in parliament, referring to 300 national deputies. The need to reduce the number of national deputies in Ukraine is due to several important factors. First, if we go outside and ask Ukrainian citizens if they agree that 450 people's deputies in Ukraine are too many, we'll hear 90 percent of the answer, and maybe even 100 percent of the answer, about what, 450 people's deputies in Ukraine are too many. Secondly, it should be borne in mind that, when the Constitution, which is now being established in 1996, the number of national deputies of Ukraine, the population of Ukraine, was more than 50 million, 52 million. Today, according to the most optimistic data, the number of people in Ukraine has declined significantly. Therefore, appropriate proportional representation in relation to the number of Ukrainian citizens who represent a certain number. who authorize a certain national MP to represent their interests should also be reduced. Furthermore, article 76 of the Constitution of Ukraine is also proposed. More loyally, article 76 of the Constitution proposes to remove the situation that the election of Ukrainian national MPs takes place on certain constitutional grounds, on the basis of freedom. free elections of general, equal, direct election rights, secret ballots. But I want to encourage everyone to avoid speculation on this issue, because it's only about the economy of constitutional text. That's the thing. [[B in m in s a l in]] The fact is, honourable national deputies, that these same constitutional principles, as listed in article 76, are enshrined in article 71 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Two articles of the Constitution, and I draw your attention to the fact that article 71 of the Constitution of Ukraine is enshrined in Chapter III of the Constitution of Ukraine, which has a higher level of legal protection, i.e. it belongs to the principles of the constitutional system of Ukraine. And article 71 tells us that elections are free, they take place on the basis of a general, equal, direct election right by secret ballot. In other words, there is no point in duplicating the same standard in two articles of the Constitution. In addition, article 76 of the Constitution establishes another important requirement for future national deputies. Article 76 states that one condition for being elected national deputy of Ukraine is the availability of such a qualification requirement as that of speaking Ukrainian. I think that article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is also part of the principles of the constitutional system, as the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has repeatedly stated in its decisions, directly established that the national language is the Ukrainian language. Appropriately establishing a requirement for representatives of the Ukrainian people in the Supreme Council to speak the national language is an obligation that must be fulfilled by everyone desiring to become Ukraine’s national deputy. Thus, President Zelenski in his bill emphasized that one of the key points for a future national MP was the compulsory language. This is the case with article 76. Article 77 of the Constitution of Ukraine has undergone only one change. Article 77 states that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is chosen for a proportional electoral system. Why is this done? This is done, again, in order to avoid possible speculation about adapting the type of electoral system to the composition of parliament that is desirable to certain political forces. We have repeatedly observed the history of Ukraine's independence when it comes to the type of electoral system. By the way, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine said that the type of electoral system is a question of political relevance, but it should be considered in the context of other rules of the Constitution, other provisions. Constipation at the level of the Constitution of a proportional type of electoral system will make it impossible for any future speculation about the artificial formation of the necessary composition of Parliament in a treaty to certain political forces. Now, in order to change the law from a proportional electoral system to any other system, a revision of the Constitution will be necessary. This, of course, will not be possible in terms of the political interests of the situation. With regard to a particular type of proportional electoral system, it would be a matter of legislative regulation. That is, the Law on the Election of People’s Deputies or the Electoral Code will explicitly provide for what type of electoral system is needed for the election of Ukrainian national deputies. Therefore, I urge you to support Bill 1017, which was introduced by President Volodymyr Zelenski of Ukraine as an urgent matter for the introduction of the agenda of the session and the referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to reach a conclusion on its compliance with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there questions for the rapporteur? Please log in. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u148	Dear colleague, I have a simple question: Why 300? Is that 300 Spartans or do you have any other associations? You said in your speech that if you go out and ask people, 450 is a lot. You go outside and you ask, you'll be told, 50 is a lot. So let's cut it down, or maybe we can cut Parliament down on why it's here. That'll tell you somewhere on the street there's not a lot of people. So let's get out of what the legislative body should do. And the number of national deputies is calculated by population. And that's true. For example, I know 500 deputies in Poland. We have about the same thing, but you cancel out to 300. And the second. If you say so. Second question. If you're talking about a proportional system, why don't you write directly into the Constitution, as you promised in the electoral promises, a proportional system.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u149	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u150	Thank you. Then why doesn't the Constitution say, "The proportional system of open lists." And so you're just putting in a proportional one, which you can, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u151	Thank you for asking. Well, on account of the number of national MPs in Ukraine. This numbered composition of 300 national deputies was taken, of course, not from. It was not known from where, but was taken into account by the will of the Ukrainian people, which was expressed in an all-U.S. referendum, where the people, in particular, said that the number of national MPs should be 300, including another, is to bring the number of people, the number of people that I have already mentioned. In addition, the decline in the number of Ukrainian national deputies will lead to a substantial budget economy to pay for the work of Ukrainian national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u152	Grandmaster Mikola Romanovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u153	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u154	Turn on Ruslan Knyazevich's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Dear reporter, I want to tell you that your economy may have some of these unpredictable consequences. We had a discussion with you yesterday, and I'm continuing my discussion today. Look, in "Transitional positions," I don't know if all the national MPs have read out, written a very interesting thing, written that this Supreme Council is exercising its powers only until the election of the Ukrainian National Deputies. You saved the election, you didn't say, we have four types of election of Ukrainian national deputies: the turn, the turn, the repeat and the intermediate. And if reading and interpreting is expanded, any holding of interim elections in a one-maned district is also the election of Ukrainian national deputies. And the legitimacy and authority of this House will be questionable. Was that the purpose of the bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u156	I think there will be no doubt about the legitimacy of this Parliament for the simple reason that, as long as this Supreme Council of the Ninth Assembly is in operation, an old electoral system will be in place, including the interim elections that you spoke of, will be brought into line with existing legislation. As far as I'm concerned. As for the Transitional Regulations. I'm sorry about Section XV "Transitional positions," which you're talking about, and I want to point out that there's a general standard of the Constitution that says that the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies stop on the day of the opening of the first session of the newly elected Supreme Council. The word in "transitional positions" is that any of the next Supreme Councils will be chosen by new rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u157	Thank you. Janko Anton Volodymyrovich, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u158	Dear reporter! I have a very simple question. From the "Serve of the People" party that you represent today, 130 went through, if I'm not mistaken, majors who made promises to work in the districts, to develop them, and so on. It's not as if I've been joking for six months, as the Act on the Distinguishment of the Majority System has just been passed. In fact, the majority system is not just in Ukraine, it is, for example, in France, it is, to some extent, in the United States of America and many other countries. I have a question for you. Why is it that a proportional closed system is so appealing to you? What's the one thing they say is, sorry, for voters, there's got to be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u159	Thank you for asking. There's no bait in our bill, and there can't be, first. It's different. You have no legal basis for talking about a proportional electoral system with closed lists. Since the Electoral Law or the Electoral Code will provide for a proportional electoral system with open lists. As for the majority electoral system, you are absolutely right: in many democratic countries of the Western world, there is a major electoral system. However, the practice of holding the Ukrainian elections shows that 99 election periods in major electoral systems have resulted in gross violations of electoral legislation, namely in the form of bribery of voters in various ways. So, reverends. I mean, until the last election. To the last elections, which are extraordinary, because this is where the political power that was represented primarily by the "Serves of the People" party showed that even Greeks do not always work. But it was an exception to the general rule, the general rule, unfortunately, that Greece was very often decisive in determining the results of electing voters in major districts.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u160	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Olga Volodymyrski Sougiri. Please, Olga Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u161	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy, at its meeting on September 2, 2019, at its meeting on September 2, 2019, the Protocol No. 2 was considered by the President as urgent, a bill amending articles 76, 77 of the Constitution (to reduce the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council and to consolidate the proportional electoral system) (registration No. 1017) of August 29, 2019. Having examined the bill in accordance with its articles 145, 146 of the Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Legal Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as an urgent matter, a bill amending articles 76, 77 of the Constitution (to reduce the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council and to consolidate the proportional electoral system) (registration No. 1017 of 29 August 2019, to include in the agenda of the day-to-day second session of the Supreme Council of the Ninth Appeal and to refer to the Constitutional Court the conclusion of its compliance with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution, adding relevant materials, please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u162	Thank you, Olga Volodymyrically. Will there be questions for a coconspirator? They will be. Please sign up for factions. Thank you. People's Deputy Yatzenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u163	Dear reporter, I have a very simple question for you and the previous speaker. It was said that there were Greek deputy majors here and so forth, and as far as I know, the OSCE said that everything was good, that we had criminal responsibility for bribery in Ukraine, and there were no such serious violations. And the second question is, don't you think that you still need a question of how to vote, how many deputies there should be and how much electoral system to do it on? It is for a referendum, not just to legislate under a particular political situation. Let's put this to a referendum and ask people who like the system: majority lists, open lists, closed lists and so on, how many deputies should there be? It is simply surprising that such an approach is taken by the rabbles, as they say and should be respected by people who also think and choose majors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u164	Thank you for asking. As for the first question, I cannot express my personal point of view on violations, there is the official position of the Central Electoral Commission, which has established the results of the vote in the election of Ukraine's national deputies, including those elected for one-man election districts. With regard to your second question about the possibility of bringing this issue to the U.S. referendum. If there's an appropriate initiative to hold such a referendum, I think this might be the subject of an all-U.S. referendum. But while there is a bill to amend the Constitution in this part, we must consider it, and the committee recommends it to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to reach an appropriate conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u165	Thank you, Olga Volodymyrna. Please, National Deputy Tsimbaluk, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u166	Tsymbaluk, Fatherland. An honorable Presidium, a reputable reporter! I have a question, essentially, when we talk about European practice, in neighbouring Hungary, one MP is said to represent 48,000 voters, neighbouring Poland over 80, we have about 93,000 voters per deputy. But when we grant the people the right of legislative initiative, perhaps even less than 300 deputies are needed in general. But the question is in another, the project is written about, and the law is enshrined that the MP has to speak the national language. As you predict exams for candidates in the MPs, how will they test this rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u167	Thank you for asking. And the price of national language. The mechanism to verify the conformity of the candidate to this price may be similar to that established by the Ukrainian Citizenship Act. When a candidate for Ukrainian citizens is submitted, the person who wants to be admitted to Ukrainian citizenship is given appropriate documents when the appropriate language examination is conducted, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u168	Thank you, Olga Volodymyrically. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a discussion between the MPs and the national MPs. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups, please. Thank you. I invite the people's deputy Ustinov from the Voice faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u169	Thank you. I give the floor to Jaroslav Jurczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u170	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! As a child, when my grandmother had baked pies, she learned not to eat them in time until they were still hot from the oven, and she needed them to catch up, otherwise it would be a health problem. Regrettably, today's process of acceptance does not, until the end of the ready-made changes to the Constitution, really reminds us of this process of trying to instill, in fact, the people of Ukraine and the Ukrainian State, these pies are only hot out of the ovens that have not arrived, they could not have gone through any discussions logically and with moments of stuffed flies instead of raisins. First of all, it's a problem of reduced procedure. In fact, we were unable to properly assess the legislative initiatives, and even our own anti-corruption committee, when it came to its conclusions, were not included in any of the bills by the Main Committee of Profiles. That's why we need committees if they don't perform their functions. At the same time, after this initiative, we as the Voice faction are ready to support a reduction in the number of national MPs. You can talk in numbers, but in fact we have even made an appropriate proposal to the President of Ukraine to make changes to the Constitution in terms of reform of parliamentaryism as a whole. They're not torn out of context, they're actually a whole concept. Unfortunately, a slightly different path has been chosen, and we might have voted in favour of cutting to three hundred, although there is no explanation in the explanatory note for why, but there are nuances, actually, in the bill itself, which shows that he was preparing in a hurry. Well, for example, today we're talking about that introducing a proportional election system is preventing corruption. I want to remind you that in Ukraine's history, there was a proportional election system that was closed when seats in the party list were not bought cheaper than the districts were bought. So in this case, if you're going to enter this standard, you should write, say "open party system" and let our citizens vote not only for parties, but also determine who you support in the party. After all, this is in the Electoral Codex. Then there's a word that's mixed up, and there's one word that can be chosen as an MP. there can be no MP, and there are limits. So if a candidate who didn't meet certain parameters couldn't have been able to run before, now that he's read directly, anyone can, and since he's become a deputy, he'll be out of commission. Actually, we made suggestions to the President, we were hoping that the pie would be ready for use. Now it's a sub-product, and that's why we can't support this proposal, but the very logic of reducing the number of deputies is supported by the Voice faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u171	Thank you. I'd like to invite People's Deputies Gus of the Future Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u172	Good afternoon, dear friends! They're looking at us, I hope, and they're going to look at millions of people, and this is about discussing them. Now we're getting into some kind of anecdote, respectable friends, everyone here. For 5 years, under the walls of Parliament, the public, our international partners were shouting in one voice, "Give me open lists!" Everyone heard that. Parliament had been unable to give birth to a few years earlier, but the last year after four thousand amendments, the Law on Open Lists was finally adopted by the crowd of discussions. It is accepted, it can be amended, and so forth. It's on the President's signature. Apparently, society was ready for open lists. Obviously, the President, as far as I'm concerned, would sign or be here today and tell us, "Dear deputies of the ninth vocation, I have an observation, I have another vision" and so on. What do we see today? Here's a piece of paper that says, a proportional system, a dot. What's next? These are closed, open, closed lists, and I'm sorry, this is the system in 2006-7. I'll remind the voters that in 2006-7 there were no districts, no majors. There were only party lists where the party manager took a lover, a stable boy, a driver, and so on and drew up a list of deputies that had nothing to do with a particular region. I'm 37 years old, and the last 17 years I've been elected a deputy in the districts alone, once in the city, twice in the district, now in the Supreme Council. I've always, myself, and there's a lot of you here, after all, the "Serve of the People" got more mandate as a senior. So I'm not aging to save a major, no, it's a rudimentary. But "The Servant of the People" has to say, "The proportional system behind open lists." Yesterday I read an interview by one of the deputy heads of your largest faction, a coalition that said, "The open lists are for the Netherlands." Guys, let's figure this out! I was reading the People's Party program, and I didn't see any information about a closed proportional system. So I would like the President of Ukraine or the leadership of your majority to say clearly right now, behind this point, the proportional system, are you going to propose some kind of law, are you ready to sign the President's Open List Act? I warn and the Ukrainians here are not allowed to pass the law on closed lists. I'm sure if this is done, no one will cover these rows, it will be the first block of this, this rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u173	Thank you. I'm the only one right now. Right away, I would like to point out to the distinguished speaker that the Electoral Code, which we've been talking about for so long, came to the President's Office signed with all the violations of the Supreme Council terms only on 27.08 this year. And surely the President of Ukraine in his term will determine how the Electoral Code will be dealt with. But the position of President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine is clear – we have always been supporters of an open electoral system with open lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, the word is given to Sobolje's Sergey Vladislavovich. Yvchenko, faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u175	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I won't tell you about the economy of the Constitution, as they say, but I'll tell you what Fatherland thinks it's justified to reduce the number of national MPs. In the 91st year when we declared independence, we were 52 million, you talked about it. Now there are a little over 30 people living in Ukraine. So, of course, today both people and those who voted for us today, and we as parliamentarians think that reducing the number of deputies is a justifiable step. The change in the system, the election system, is also true. "Paternity" always said we had to move on to a proportional system with open electoral lists. And, colleagues, believe me, for us, it's not about reducing the number of deputies, but it's about their quality. Their quality should grow with every call, the leaders of public opinion should come, people who are directly trained in certain areas should come into certain drafts. There are people who can protect the right directions and present the right changes. Colleagues, but I have to admit, European experience speaks differently. My colleagues already talked about countries like Hungary -- 48,000 people represent one MP. In Poland there are 560 deputies, right, there are two chambers. In Germany, there are 81 million people, but there are 699 deputies. Romania is 58,000 people. We, colleagues, are going to increase the people of the government, so today we're going to have the inaccessibility of people to, let's say, those whom... the representatives they choose. Colleagues, I want to say that "Paternity" is not going to vote for the law on the ground, and in general, on the first reading, we're going to support it if you don't introduce the Electoral Code. It is never signed by the former Supreme Council Head. We have to see that this is going to be a proportional system with electoral lists. And finally. Nevertheless, colleagues, quality is the key. And of course, this law has no economic gain, but we support it in the first reading, and we believe that balanced decisions have been made both after the decline in the number of national MPs, and after the cancellation of the majority that we have talked about so constantly, but now it exists. And it's not clear if the new Electoral Code you're going to introduce is going to be without a majority. And then let's talk about how we're going to give new young people who can make some changes that can talk about certain directions, give them a chance to get into those proportional electoral lists. For it to be different from what our people think, that in proportional electoral lists are drivers, then secretaries of the faction leader or other service staff. There must be leaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u176	Thank you. The word is given to Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u177	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, certainly, an interesting proposal and I propose to open a discussion about the changes proposed by the President of Ukraine to the Constitution. First of all, our faction introduces an alternative law. We hope you can support us. That is, in article 76, after words. I'm sorry, sir. We can give Mr. Paris a word so he can speak. Thank you, Mr. Andrey, am I interrupting? Thank you, thank you. Just a little bit, okay, take it easy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u178	Colleagues, order up in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u179	I'm asking you to give me back this time. As for the words after "speaks the national language," add the following: "and has no citizenship, no subjects of another state or state." Well, you remember the story, "I don't have two nationals, I have three, so it doesn't apply to me." Next, next, about the lists. We feel your pain, and we suggest, accordingly, in 77 articles, the following wording: "The Supreme Council of Ukraine chooses a proportional electoral system with open electoral lists" and that this is in the text of the Constitution. I see the Mayors rejoice, I'm very pleased, I believe in your sincerity. Last and last. Where's the logic? I wanted to ask, unfortunately, where is the logic of 300 Ukrainian national deputies? Here, a fellow speaker, speaking before me, tells us that we were getting smaller. Thus, in four years, we must make sure that more and more of us. Because people came back, asked for Ukrainian citizenship, and that's how I watched "Serve of the People 3" in the movie, and that's what we have to go to. And we can make more Ukrainians. So when we go out looking for logic, we can't agree with the 300. If we're changing the electoral system to proportional to open lists, it's only logical that we don't need a proper place for majors. And we're proposing the number of 225 National Deputies of the Supreme Council. Stadium, yes, stadium. What will that give us? This, by the way, will give us a substantial budget economy, about half a billion dollars, already counted. We're going to have to spend something on refurbishing the hall, there's going to be 225 places with these projection monitors in dijitalization style. We're moving into this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u180	Let me make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u181	Thank you. So our faction opens the debate, suggests, I re-fix, 225 Ukrainian national deputies, the proportional lists are open to everyone in the region to understand who they vote for. And, of course, we have to prevent candidates from the national MPs who have other than Ukrainian citizenship, this is actually going to be a real change. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u182	Thank you. Lucenko Irina Stepanovna, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". Andrey Volodymyrovich Parubius, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u183	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, Ukrainians, my speech, first of all, on political responsibility. You know, not so long ago, a few hours ago, a lot of people coming out of this rostrum were talking, we promised to be untouchable, let's vote and we voted, today is the same question. Before the elections, most of the political forces and the largest political power in Ukraine advocated a system with regional open lists. In the text given to us, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is chosen for a proportional electoral system. I understand the need to save a seat in the Constitution, but for three words you could find a place through which, with regional open lists. Three words must be added to match your promises to what is happening today in the hall, for this is not the first time. I would like to remind you that the first bill passed by President Zelenski of Ukraine was his own bill on closed party lists in this room. And fortunately, the former Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support him. And today, the President's signature has an election code with open regional lists. As is the Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry. The Plastics Act, which has not been signed for tens of days and months. Bands are in all factions. Is that normal? It is not the President’s right to sign the law that he does not perform today. Just as the President of Ukraine has no right to give orders to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as it was at the last meeting. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is not a division of the President's Office. And with that approach, you know, in terms of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the number of deputies can be reduced to two, and you can also write in the Constitution the Green Comet of Bogdan. Because under such conditions, parliament has no meaning in the decision-making system. So two things have to be done. First, the President of Ukraine has to sign the Electoral Code with open lists. Second, recall the project and add three words "with regional open lists." Then we will be able to vote and then it will be in line with the election promises we made. In the meantime, it is deceit and wickedness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u184	The word is given to the Seminian Oleg Valeriovich. Calchenko Sergey Vitaliovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u185	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! I like to give something to continue the subject that the previous speaker spoke about, especially when this does not apply directly to his subject. Regarding the inheritance that President Zelensky received, he also received another law that was passed by the Supreme Council a few years ago, which was sent to the previous President a few years ago, by the way, the subject of the legislative initiative on that bill was the President and he was accepted in the first reading and in general, and he remained unsigned. That's why President Zelenski's legacy was given something that was not signed by the previous president. Now, on this issue, which we are currently discussing about the introduction of the agenda and the referral to the Constitutional Court. Because several times today the position of the Venice Council of Europe was mentioned. And I would like to remind you that one of these ideological or conceptual principles that the Venice Commission is governed by is the stability of electoral legislation. And especially with regard to the electoral system. Traditionally, in Ukraine we see the instability of electoral legislation. If I am not mistaken, only the Supreme Council, whose mandate had been suspended for the time being, had failed to change the election law. And that's why the 2007 elections were held under the same law as the sixth, and the elections were held in the 14th and 19th years under the law that was passed in the 11th year. I would like to remind you that for the first time in terms of a proportional system, Law 2222, which was adopted on December 8, 2004, stated that the following elections take place in proportion. That's why there's no novelty here. This is just a kind of repetition of the story that was, which is already, in the practice of constitutional law in Ukraine. And I would also like to remind you that when it came to changing the electoral system and in the summer of 11th, all of a sudden, the discussion center moved to the Ministry of Justice and more to the Bank, and even when a bill was adopted that was appreciated in the fall of 2011 by the Venice Commission, she said even what she didn't say much to others: in Ukraine, a proportional electoral system was needed. True, then it became more constitutional. The constitutional majority was formed in the Council in the 11th year and adopted, returned to a mixed majority proportional system. So the next election is to take place, of course, by a proportional system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u186	Thank you. Please sign up for the speeches by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, non-fractional. No Sergey Volodymyrovich? Oh, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u187	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! This room has at least 50 percent of the elected majors. I, Sergey Shahov, fought in Lugansk in 114 district where the separation with Russia is going, right where the war is going. Sergey the Great, and Alexander Sukhov of the Majorate, also Alexander Lukashev, were chosen from my team. Can you please tell us what we can say to people if we adopt a law today on the reduction and total destruction of the majority system that is around the world? Who today will be hit by people from the Mountain Mine, who are sitting in a mine under the ground; from Rubižny, where there is no heat today; from Chertkovo, Milovo, where they can't cross the bridge 40 meters; from Djomino-Alexandrovka, Blagovishtenka, where 6 kilometers, all in all, to the hospital, and 70 kilometers to Go to Happiness. People of happiness who today can be left without a bridge at all. The governor only hangs these medals in Luhansk for those bastards who entered the blood of Sergey Samarski, a journalist in Severerodonetsk. I am addressing every single one of you today, the Mayors: think before voting, because people were giving you their votes, to those who were walking in the courtyards, from door to door, and making promises, not just making promises, but giving you the word to do something for the country. I'm addressing you today as the people who came here today to make a difference. When the president introduced the Green Bill, 450 sheets in fine print, behind closed lists and 3 percent reduction in the party barrier, he was simply established. Today, you too may be deceived. Shahov's team will vote in favour of reducing the number of national deputies in this room, according to Nestor Shufric, 225 national deputies in all districts very well. But you have to think that in general there was a major system in the country, people have to choose, face-to-face with each of you, those people's deputies who feel their skin like people today are not only starving, they suffer as they left the country, like my parents, the Kingdom of Heaven, and they didn't come, the father came in a urn burned from Moscow, the miner, when the mines sank, when the children stayed alone. You go to the cemetery, and there are some passages, they say, you know, children who have lost their parents, orphans. So once again, I want and urge each of the national MPs from each faction, think thousands of times before voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u188	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u189	Before voting for this bill. I invite each of you party and elected by the majority system to Lugansk, as I have invited all three years, and the government, every national deputy to come and see how people live, the pit as graves, I'm not joking, the miners sit in the mine, when they come to the party, the offices will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u190	Sergey Volodymyrovich, regulations, regulations. Thank you. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Oh, no? Alexei Hotcharenko, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u191	Please pass the word to Alexia Hotcharenko, "European Solidarity." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u192	Alexei Hotcharenko, north of Clothing, European Solidarity. Well, first of all, I'd like to. During my previous speech, I finally understood why the opposition was against the gallery. At first I thought it was because, you know, after old habits on the 95th quarter show, first place, they're more expensive, there's important people sitting there, and somewhere behind they're not very respectable. But it turns out that the other goal is to be able to yell at any performance that doesn't like it. Dear colleagues, today you are the authority, tomorrow, it is life, you can be the opposition. I wouldn't abuse that right if I were you. Now about the essence of what we're talking about right now. First. We're told, let's make a proportional system. And for that. Well there was just a hit and a pearl new, it's a meme -- for the economy of constitutional text. What it is, only Mr. Venislavsky knows. Well, but, you know, let's just go with the constitutional text. The President's signature contains the passed Act on the Proportional System for Open Lists. What's with the canteen? Sign with the pen, one second. Fine, maybe even when the movie is being made, and still in the country, it is a proportional system. But somehow we're going another way. The other one. 300 deputies. What an interesting novelty. Listen, I have another offer. Why 300? Let's do 95, so it's already a complete 95 block here. It was already in full conformity with the spirit and position of the President. Why 300? Why 95? How about one? I've prepared a 95 bill, by the way. Who wants to join, please sign, we'll make 95 deputies. But basically, what are they telling us? That the purpose of this is the economy of government money. Dear colleagues, there is a much simpler way than waiting another four years and only then reducing the number of parliaments to save money. Now let's lower our wages with you. Today the deputy's salary is 28, plus the MP's is 35, plus 63,000. Let's do this, I've put in a proper bill, I ask my colleagues to support us to make two minimums of 9,500, and we're going to cut the state's spending on national MPs three times today, and we don't have to wait, we don't have to invent, change the Constitution under such ideal proposals. Another example of banal, cheap populism. Just a red button. That's all I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u193	Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich. It's post-faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u194	Dear colleagues, you know, we have a hotel here in Kiev called "Moscow," and now it's called "Ukraine" and a hotel called "Kiev." How did they come to be? They came when there was a Soviet system and members of the party system came and just once a month, they spent a month in Kiev and voted, and they had to live somewhere. So there wasn't a Parliament that was self-sufficient, and there was just a Parliament that was so puppetrous, let's say. And we all understand that, nevertheless, in the developed countries, the majority system works -- the same France, the same United States. Senator, for example, from Arizona or just from the party, well, it could be symbiosis. But now it's just being suggested to take out and abolish the majority system and to consolidate it in the Constitution, it's wrong. We have to ask people, right now in the Parliament of 199 majors, I can ask how a major with an internship and as a person who got 70 percent of the support in Ukraine -- almost 51,000, or one of you told your electorate when I went to the election that I would come and the first thing I would vote to abolish the majority system. Did you tell me that you were going to develop districts and territories and so forth? Why are the speculations that are going around the cheerleader today? We have up to eight years in prison today, if there is, God forbid, a bribe. So it's all just talk. And if it isn't a bribe today to finance the political parties that the winners are, in fact, unequal terms. So I think we have, after all, now to postpone this project and just ask people, to hold a referendum is going to be democratic. And by the way, there was a lot of talk about the referendum when we had both the presidential campaign and the parliamentary campaign, and now it's kind of gone somewhere. So let's think about this one more time, and, nevertheless, let's understand that we're a democratic country, not just an adjective, as they say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u195	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your word? For the final word, the Ukrainian National Deputy President of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovic, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u196	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The bill amending articles 76 and 77 of the Constitution of Ukraine is fully in line with the expectations of the Ukrainian people regarding the abolition of the majority electoral system. Under these slogans they went, including the election of those national MPs, to this day elected by the political party "The Servant of the People". President Zelenski claimed that the majority electoral system should be abolished, and this is the fulfillment of his pre-election promise, which is fully supported by the political party "Slut of the People". As for the number of national MPs, 300, once again, I want to say that the previous power in 20 years of independence of Ukraine has led the population from 52 million to slightly more than or slightly less than 30. No one knows, for the authorities have never been able to make a census. With regard to the type of proportional electoral system proposed in article 77 of the Constitution of Ukraine, many types of proportional electoral system with open regional lists, with preferences, and so forth, attaching a specific type of proportional electoral system to the Constitution level is totally inappropriate. Moreover, President Zelensky repeatedly claimed that there would be a proportional electoral system with open lists. And in conclusion, I would like to say, honourable national MPs, to those allegations that are echoing from the individual political forces that President Zelensky now has the Electoral Code, which can be signed, published and acquired. I want him to take over. Yes, President Zelensky received the Electoral Code on August 28, 2019. That is, the previous leadership of the Supreme Council has submitted, more faithfully, to the President's signature, the electoral code with a grave violation of all of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure Act. Today, considering that there are so many questions about the procedure for the adoption of this bill, very many issues of content, the President is considering this Electoral Code, and in the Ukrainian Constitution a decision will be taken on its signing or on its promises, in accordance with the President's terms of reference. With regard to the bill that we are considering amending articles 76 and 77 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I call on the Ukrainian people's deputies to support the introduction. To support the introduction of this bill into the agenda of the day session and to refer it to the Constitutional Court for verification in accordance with articles 156 and 157 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u197	Thank you. To conclude, the Vice - Chief of the Committee on Legal Policy, Olga Volodymyrny Sougir, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u198	Dear colleagues, the mixed electoral system that exists today in Ukraine is unique to countries with transitional regimes. Ukraine wants to build a state with a stable democratic regime. So we ask you to vote for a proportional electoral system, and therefore to vote for stability, democracy in the political system and for stability and democracy in Ukrainian parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u199	Thank you. And for being so brief, also separate "thank you," Olga Volodymyrna. Dear National Deputies! Let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with article 146 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I am voting for the adoption of the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 1017/P) on the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth call for a bill amending articles 76 and 77 of the Constitution of Ukraine (to reduce the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to consolidate the proportional electoral system) and to refer it to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting the vote to the vote and I'm asking for your support. [[18:48:06]] For 258. Thank you. 258, in favor, 27 against, holding 50. Decision taken. Orders adopted, decree taken in general. The factions. "Serve of the People" – 237, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 14, "For the Future" – 1, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 6. Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law (registration number 1027) amending article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for additional reasons for the early termination of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy) is being submitted to your consideration. According to the requirements of part one of article 146 of the Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. For the report, the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Fedor Volodymyrovich Venislavski, is given to the Ukrainian national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u200	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The bill under registration number 1027 refers to the amendment to article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine in order to provide for additional grounds for the early termination of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy. What are some of the long - term reasons for the long - term suspension of the authority of Ukraine’s national deputy? It's about what our political power promised during the elections: that national MPs will vote and work in Parliament just like ordinary people in any place of work. Because, unfortunately, the voters have been able to observe half-empty parliamentary halls that we are currently working in. Today's vote, today's work, it's breaking patterns, breaking stereotypes, because the Ukrainian national MPs, who represent the political party "The Servant of the People," are demonstrating their willingness to work fully in the Parliamentary Hall. At the same time, we see very often when there are 226 more on the ballot board, and there are several dozen Ukrainian national deputies in the room, whose cards are voted on by themselves by other national deputies. It is for the sake of making such a shameful practice impossible for the future that President Zelenski has passed a bill, which provides that if the Ukrainian national deputy has voted in favour of another Ukrainian national deputy, or if he has given the opportunity to vote in favour of himself, it would be a reason to lose the parliamentary mandate if such a legal fact is established by a court decision that will gain legal power. In other words, honourable national MPs, it is about losing the MP's mandate and the one who gave up his ballot and the one who voted in a foreign card. This must be a normal tradition for the Ukrainian Parliament. If our national deputies represent their electorate who may be released from work for a very short period of time, and the Ukrainian national deputies have not worked in Parliament for months, it is a disgrace to such national deputies. And this practice must be stopped. Therefore, the reason for the early suspension of the Ukrainian National Deputy in the event of a non-personal vote should be supported by the People's Deputies in the future when the law was passed in advance and in general, and now when the bill was sent to the Constitutional Court, when the bill was incorporated into the agenda and when it was sent to the Constitutional Court for its conclusion. And the second reason that is envisaged is to make an additional contribution, which is further foreseen in article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, is that national MPs may be recognized as having lost a parliamentary mandate for walks like those of ordinary voters in the workplace. For walks, it means the absence of a Ukrainian national deputy in a one-time session, which consists of plenary meetings and committee meetings, totaling more than one third. The absence of more than one-third of the job would be a reason for the loss of a parliamentary mandate. So, dear colleagues, I think, so that we don't be ashamed to look into the eyes of our constituents, so that we can work effectively and not abuse our voting rights, not give other MPs the opportunity to vote for ourselves or vote for others. In order for the National Deputies to sit and work in the Plenary Hall, in the Committees, in the sittings of the temporary special and interim commission of inquiry and other parliamentary bodies that it forms, we are with you to support this bill on the introduction of the agenda and the referral to the Constitutional Court in order to reach its conclusion on the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u201	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. Is there a question for the reporter? Yes. Please sign up for questions. The Scrum of Helen Ivanovna, the faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u202	Please pass the word to John Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u203	Ivan Ivanovich Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u204	Dear reporter, well, first of all, I would like to say that the issue of personal voting is one of the basic requirements for Parliament to be really democratic. And I would like to point out that no example of non-personal voting has been recorded during Parliament's work. It's important. Therefore, while upholding the rule of political responsibility for non-personal voting, I would like to ask you what the authors of this bill were guided by when they determined that one third of the Committee's or the Supreme Council's meetings were the basis for depriving the National MP's mandate. I would like to point out that for an ordinary employee who works in various authorities, there is one in local governments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u205	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u206	A vacation for a Ukrainian citizen is a reason for his dismissal. Why exactly a third, please explain this logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u207	Thank you for asking. The logic of the bill, which foresees that a parliamentary mandate will be lost in the event that one third of the working time of the Ukrainian National MP is out of work, we argue that the next session, which begins on the first Tuesday of February and the first Tuesday of September every year, lasts 3 months. That is, in order for the Ukrainian National MP to have the opportunity to stand, including because of his absence from Parliament, at a committee meeting, his political position, which we had yesterday at a committee meeting, to allow him to leave Parliament's meeting in a political protest, but not to be abused by national MPs when they are politically absent for months -- that is the logic and was laid down as the basis for a 30 per cent or one-third, more faithful, of the gaps on the job.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u208	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u209	Meetings of plenary parliaments, plenary meetings and committee meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u210	Thank you. Kamelchuk Yuri Aleksandrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u211	Good afternoon! 124th constituency, Chervonograd, Sokal district, part of Kamyanka Buzik. I would like to express my support for this bill: for walking, for buttoning, for clearly expel and release. That's the first one. And the others. I'd even like to make an extra offer, because I know that the predecessor in my district spent very little time and actually took little of his electorate, and that's a huge problem, I think, not only in my district was there before. I think it's helpful to in some way introduce the opportunity for voters to call off their nationals by some reasonable procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u212	Yeah, it's not a question anymore, it's a proposition. We'll think about this proposal together, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u213	Thank you. Blue Oleg Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u214	I give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u215	Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u216	Thank you. Dear reporter, the law establishes the sanction as an element of constitutional and legal responsibility that can only be applied as a result of the rules set out in the Constitution. Indeed, the Constitution prohibits non-personal voting. There may be sanctions for this, but the Constitution does not prohibit more than one third of meetings, nor does it prohibit other reasons. And articles 58, 61 of the Constitution say that no one can be held responsible for actions that were not recognized by law as an offence at the time of their commission. And you're proposing to impose sanctions for not being defined by an offence, except for a personal vote. Where is the legal logic except for legal populism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u217	The legal logic of not having a personal vote is absolutely obvious, you've noticed that. A national MP shall vote personally and delegate authority to another MP shall have no right whatsoever. Along with the fact that the term of office of the National MP is terminated in the absence of plenary parliamentary meetings or committee meetings, it is important that, in this case, honourable members of the national parliament that we are with you, in this case, employees of the Ukrainian people, members of Parliament. We in Parliament represent the interests of the Ukrainian people and work here on a permanent basis. The status of Ukraine’s national deputy cannot be compatible with any other paid activity. Therefore, if the Ukrainian national MP who violates the requirements of this case is to work, the demands of the people, the demands of the electorate to work in the Supreme Council, to adopt decisions, if he ignores the demands of the people, this should be the basis for the constitutional and legal responsibility in the form of the permanent cessation of the powers of the national MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u218	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. The deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Olga Volodymyrny Sougir, is invited to speak for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u219	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council on 30 August 2019, considered, at its meeting on 2 September 2019, Protocol No. 2, submitted by the President as an immediate bill amending article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine on additional grounds for the suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, registration No. 1027 of 29 August 2019. Having examined the compatibility of the bill with the requirements of articles 145, 146 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Legal Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as an urgent bill for amending article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for additional reasons for the early termination of the powers of the national deputy) (registration No. 1027 of 29 August 2019), to include in the agenda of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of the Ninth Appeal and to refer to the Constitutional Court the conclusions on its compliance with the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. By adding materials, please consider. And when asked by a colleague about the responsibility of a national MP to be present at meetings of the Supreme Council and its organs. Paragraph 3 of the first section of article 24 of the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine is a national MP obliged to be present and personally participate in the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its bodies to which it is elected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u220	Thank you, Olga Volodymyrna. Are there any questions? Arthur Volodymyrovich, you only have one question. Please sign up for the questions. Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u221	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we're all impressed by this meme today -- the economy of constitutional text. Because I think there's been a healthy economy in this room for about an hour. And in this context, I have two questions for you, ma'am, as for the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It seems to me that the best instrument for personal voting at all is the introduction of a sensory button. And the previous Supreme Council has done everything to enable us to introduce it since September. When will you do it? That's the first question. And the second question. In the context of a healthy economy, well, we're sitting here right now, so we're mimicking violent activity. And who prevents tomorrow at 10 a.m., as required by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, to gather and continue this economy, you know, the time and discussion of these novels that actually make even the "servants" laugh, but so far they're afraid to laugh loudly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u222	Thank you. And, Olga Volodymyrna, if you don't mind, there was a question for me, I'll try to answer it. For the first one. I would like to remind you that the sensor button has been installed for many, many years, it's not certified today, it's not regulated by the Rules, and unfortunately, it (this is my personal opinion) doesn't meet the challenges facing society today. It does not allow for personal voting. Because if we were talking about personal, it would be good to have it behind fingerprints, for example. And I'm sure we'll be able to do that soon enough, but to make sure that it also meets the requirements of the time that we have today, and the Ukrainian legislation has not failed us in the voting. As for the second one. I would like to remind you that during the Conciliation Meeting, we decided that Wednesday through Friday we would be working on committees. So unfortunately, we don't have the opportunity to continue the meeting tomorrow at 10:00. And I'm sure we don't have enough time to rest, and we can even work overtime. I'm sure that's a little bit of a problem for Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u223	I'm sorry. I'll give you a minute. Thank you. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u224	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, honourable deputies! Postfaction, Bakunec, Yavorovsky district I'm addressing you perhaps as a fellow resident of the famous legendary king's 24th Brigade. If our boys in the east missed 15 percent or a third of their time there today, we probably wouldn't be able to sit here. So first of all, I think it's a good amendment, and it's going to discipline us in the future. And from the national MPs today, I ask you to support the applause of our heroes in the east. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u225	Well, since I took a minute, Alona Ivanovna's Skrum, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u226	Thank you so much for giving me the opportunity to ask a question, I have two short questions. First. Please tell me how does the statement of the head of the David Arahamai "Serve of the People" faction relate to the fact that MPs should vote remotely and may not be at work at all? I heard that statement on the air myself. Is it related to this bill, which we are currently considering, to be deprived of a leave? And the second is a very short question. I like the idea frankly that non-personal voting should also be denied a mandate. We've been trying to track past the call, do it, but we haven't been able to track it, so many buttons were there. But I do not speak for sanctions personally, but for automated decisions, when it's not possible to make buttons at all, yes, either with an electronic card or with a fingerprint. And I know exactly what you have in the faction is that you have some really cool aitists, like Mr. Zmerenecki, who can help make an automated system so that there can never be more buttonage in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u227	As far as I'm With regard to remote voting, precision, we refer to cases where a national MP, under certain circumstances, for example, is on a mission, cannot be present, but wants to support a decision that has been made in the Plenary Hall. It's not a systemic decision, yes, for the organization of Parliament's work. As for the second question. Yes, thank you, there are high-level professionals in our faction in different areas -- that's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u228	Thank you, colleagues. Let us turn to the discussion from the MPs and the national MPs. Please sign up from the MP factions and groups. The word is given to Zimbaluku Mikhailovich. Krulke Ivan Ivanovich, faction, MP's faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u229	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, well, this very draft amendment to the Constitution is probably one that's really worth supporting the maximum number of deputies in this room, because this applies personally to everyone. We all talked about going to the polls, that there would be no facts, not a personal vote. If such facts are not in this sessional room, the rule that a deputy could be deprived of the mandate on this basis may not be implemented. But as a fuse, it will work very well. Because not a personal vote was the basis for repealing the laws of the Constitutional Court. Because it was not a personal vote that was a corruption when the laws were voted by so - called pianists. Clearly, then, such a responsibility must be. As far as walking is concerned. I asked questions from this rostrum. Dear colleagues, if any Ukrainian citizen does not show up for work, he may be fired from his job. Why can an MP go to this session room, get his salary, and not attend the sessions? This is our duty, as stipulated in the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, which is laid down in the Supreme Council Rules of the Committees Law. Obviously, such changes to the Constitution should be voted on. And here in this session room was an offer to reduce the wages of the national deputies from one of the factions. So I'd like to say that yes, over the last five years, I've had so much money that you can work now and without pay. We understand, we understand, but we don't support it. Because a national MP must be responsible for his work, attend meetings, and his work must be rewarded, and the people must control it. As Fatherland, we will support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u230	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. KORNIENKO Aleksandar Sergiyyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u231	Dear colleagues, Batenko Taras Ivanovich, Future Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u232	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the Supreme Council, we work hard with you. I recalled that the United States Constitution was only over 200 years old, and during these 200 years, the United States of America had changed the Constitution, amended it, and adopted only 27. The last time was in the mid-1970s. And in two days of this Parliament's work, we're about to get closer to the level of the Constitution of the United States. You know, I think we're a little caught up in revolutionary delicacy, even though I understand the moods of society. I understand that all of us, not all of us, are not without sin and need to keep order in our ranks, we need to discipline the members of the Supreme Council in view of the negative tradition that has taken place in the House of Parliament of the past. But I think we're too excited about the revolutionary relevance and we've forgotten that the MP has a high mandate of popular trust. You know, you can get so excited that I'm going to propose to introduce, say, and let's put in the principle of ostracism -- shelling. Let me remind you, friends, that for example, every citizen of Athens of ancient Greece once a year had the right to enter the central square, to take a clay skull, and to scrape the name of a man who was considered dangerous, and for 10 years in Athens it was possible to get rid of the politically disagreeable. In general, the victim could not have been wronged by the community, but he often expelled talented politicians, politicians with their own trust. Dear friends, we are particularly interested in the technique of the question, let's not get engrossed in this method of fighting inside our own ranks, looking for a politically disagreeable, technical issue that leaves many opportunities for abuse. I'm going to cite these abuses: ousting a mandate, when someone votes in favour of a national MP, can be an instrument of pressure on MPs. There have been cases of duplicates, such as voting cards and voting for drafts without a known MP, such cases in the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been many. A lot! So without committing any offence, the MP will be deprived of his mandate, but to prove right in court, in our court, which 75 percent of the population doesn't trust, according to recent sociological surveys at the center of Razumkov, I think it's going to be very difficult in modern Ukrainian realities. The bill, my friends, leaves a broad field for defining the notion of "the important reasons why the Ukrainian National Deputy is not present," although it should clearly define them to avoid free treatment of this concept. It is not determined who initiates consideration of the importance of the reasons for the absence of nardep in meetings. Also, it is not determined who makes the decision whether that reason is valid. Because of these technical things, which leave a lot of questions about answers, we leave behind the right not to vote on this issue of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u233	Thank you. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u234	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! This is no longer the first bill, and everyone sees that. You know, I'm always doubtful whether to take the floor on a particular issue or whether I'm deeply aware of that question in order to convey my opinion to colleagues who are also professional people, to Ukrainian citizens. And you know, today I see these bills, and even this one that we're looking at right now, and you know, I want to imagine this one, either a counselor, or an assistant, or someone else there, or a grantoid, who wrote this bill. It's completely marginally politicized. I've always had a question for all the Heads of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You know, it seems like all the Heads of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and all the faction leaders have always found it convenient not to have technical means of voting that would make it impossible to vote in private. That's how I feel. And what you call a sensory button, I'm just asking you not to call it that anymore. It's not a sensory button, it's just a two-handed voter -- and nothing else. We have today, in the 21st century, and I'm sure that, and our faction could be the initiator of this, we can make it absolutely calmly in a month's time to make a new "Radha" system, well, not in a month's time, but in three months, with certification, with everything, and so that we can even take this issue off so that we can technically not have a personal vote. It's done like this, once. So it's not good for anyone. What is laid down in this law may include both political pressure and intrigue and other reasons. I've seen a lot of people vote for themselves completely, you know, by accident. And what they said was that giving these mechanisms to other people who have other intentions is very dangerous. Next question. You say not to attend the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm simply asking you as the author of all the Ukrainian Labour Codes. Please tell me, what's this indicator? So you're saying that the Ukrainian national deputy carried out his mission, if he came in the morning, registered in writing, placed a card (this is all you have, present), and then after lunch he signed up, placed a card, and left the Supreme Council Hall. So somehow you're doing these approaches that don't count what there are different bills, there's different votes and there's a lot of other votes. I mean, if there's an estimate.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u235	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u236	If an estimate is given, it has to do something about it. So there's a lot of questions, and I'm not going to focus on them. I'll finish. We have chapter XI of the Constitution of Ukraine specifically foresaw restrictions, restrictions on introduction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u237	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, regulation. Rules, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Thank you. Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u238	Please pass the word Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u239	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u240	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow MPs! You know, Ukraine's success, as I am, depends on democracy and the rule of law in Ukraine. And what we see today in the walls of Parliament is very much like active steps towards usurping power and the path to lawlessness and dictatorship. In the pursuit of quick decisions, you offer us reckless and dangerous initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen, it is you, each of you, who gives each of you the opportunity to present your interests in this legislative body. And only the electorate can take away your right to represent him in these high halls and in this high hall. And it's not property, it's not a national MP owned by a faction or a party, because a national MP, the mandate of a national deputy, is a legitimate act of national will. And by expanding the list of reasons for the early termination of the National MP's mandate, you are sadly proposing that manipulations be possible that could lead to denial of the election results. If you call it the peoples of the land, it has little to do with the peoples of the land. If you want discipline, then discipline is one part and responsibility is the other. Look at Michael Bondar, who's been in traffic the other day. in a serious traffic accident and on the second day, he serves as a national deputy and works with you in this room. And democracy is impossible without political activity, without freedom of political activity and without the free mandate of a deputy, without free will, and without obstacles to the exercise of its powers by the Ukrainian people's representative. And if you really need discipline, put the robots down, they'll be swinging some button to turn their buttons on. We don't want to transform, give you the opportunity to turn the Council into a Russian Duma. So by intimidating and manipulating the responsible legal and political culture of parliamentarians, you unfortunately will not form. And remember, this is not a European way. In Western democracies there are special voting procedures that are designed so that non-personal voting is not possible and there is no forging vote. And your so - called perfected ones demonstrate complete mistrust primarily toward members of his political party and are in line with their responsibilities and true legislators. And the interest in real legislation is from the leaders of this political power. Sad. Colleagues, we of "European Solidarity" will not support the direction of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u241	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u242	to the Constitutional Court, but we will still insist that all the bills be directed, which are being considered today, to the Constitution, to the Venice Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u243	Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u244	Please give it to Osadchuku Andria.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u245	Osadchuk Andry is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u246	Good evening, fellow officers, Mr. Speaker. The Supreme Council had certainly gone through history because it was celebrated that it was not stupid to go to work. We all remember these wonderful images of this hall, especially on Friday, there were simply no deputies, which they actually killed the confidence of the Ukrainian people in the institution, in the Ukrainian Parliament. Similarly, the deputies of the past assembly, just like the previous one, abused the use of buttoning, directly violating the Constitution, thus killing the Ukrainian people’s trust in Parliament. This needs to be corrected, it needs to be combated. There were a lot of different thesis here, I'm literally in two positions. It's about personal voting. I'm confirming to you that as a direct participant in the work of the Kiev City Council, I put in a term of office literally a few weeks ago, there after the Dignity Revolution, you remember, there was a complete destruction of the hall, there was repair and there was a voting system for the Council-4. I get it, it's the same manufacturer that used to do this "Council-3" system. The Council-4 has been working on the Kiev City Council for 3.5, 4 in fact years, and I say, once again, as a participant in this job, which is an MP, and we have different deputies there, as well as around, have not come up with how to vote for a neighbor. So the Council-4 system, it does the function for which it was created, for personal voting and as a result, the members of the Kyiv City Council are forced to go to meetings of the Kiev City Council, because otherwise it doesn't work. So we don't have to invent a lot of things, we can just apply better practices that already work around here, on the street of Krestic. I don't think it's very expensive, and it can be done and implemented in our hall. The second is about walks. A representative of the President who presented the draft decision, in principle, said everything very well, but as always, "devil in the details." "Unreservedly absent" is written in this project. As an expert, I say we can hold 100 working groups, but we're not going to figure out with you what the important reasons are, who sets them up, and how to determine who cares, who doesn't care. This is the way to nowhere. But there may be a way out. In this room of years, perhaps 15 years ago, there was a similar discussion when the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils was approved. And there is also a standard on the grounds for the resignation of a member of the local council. And the reason is that more than half the meetings are not part of it. I mean, it's an unimportant reason, it's irrelevant, you can get sick, everything can happen to you, but if you can't be there physically, you can't do your duty to people. And that's why we don't need to establish facts. I mean, we can just copy, again, the practice that's been in the Ukrainian legislation for 15 years, which doesn't need this manipulative discussion, is an important, unimportant reason for who or how it's going to be defined. So the project is obviously the right thing to do, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u247	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u248	He's not actually right, but he's very flawed in shape. Yoga needs to be worked out, so it must be early for him to vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u249	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, please sign up for the speeches by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u250	Honorable Presidium, honourable colleagues, in most, more than half of today's Parliament have no previous world, I don't have one, and I have some learning to do, and some things I just don't want to learn. I'll tell you a secret: on the first day, one of the deputies comes up, he's got experience, he's been working on the Council for the previous call, and he says, "There's a draft calendar for the next session on the Internet, and there's a change in one month of plenary meetings and a day of electoral work. - Why? - A week of children's vacation. Well, you don't have to spend a week of plenary sessions there to be a job with voters, because kids are small and you need vacations!" I thought it was a joke, and it turns out it's serious, because another national MP said the same thing. I don't have any experience in parliamentary activity, it was wild. And if this is even a job with the electorate, and this MP is a major, and if he is, well, he should be essentially interested in maintaining that relationship. Although the Constitution states that all deputies represent, and the Constitutional Court has confirmed, represent, are representatives of the Ukrainian people whether they are elected for a proportional system or for a majority. But in fact, the Mayor should be interested. But it turns out that working with voters can be replaced by something else and used for personal use. Likewise today, it is wild to hear that it is not an obligation to participate in committee work or in a plenary session. I think you know, I'm a practicing lawyer in the past, and I was embarrassed, and I think when the European Court of Human Rights in February 2013, Volkova's case, Alexander Volkov v. Ukraine, established why decisions were violated, including the law guaranteed by the 8th article, because there was an extraordinary vote in the Supreme Council. The European Court of Human Rights, what the Constitutional Court of Ukraine had closed its eyes at the time. This has been the case in recent years that the Constitutional Court has moved away from the position that it is only a court of law and has looked at the facts: including instances of nonpersonal voting has been determined by a violation of the constitutional procedure. In 2013 the European Court of Human Rights drew attention to this. So let's keep those traditions that need to be continued in councils that start from 90 to 91 years old, and some of them need to be rejected. And this bill should be placed in the agenda and sent to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u251	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. The word is given to Friz Irina Vasilovni, a faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u252	Thank you. Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u253	Ruslan Knyazevich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u254	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ruslan Knyazevich, European Solidarity. Here, frankly, many things have already been said, do not want to repeat themselves. I think there's a point just to stop at things that haven't been discussed yet, and they're next. You know, where it refers to the early termination of non-recognitional powers, the decision is to be taken by the Supreme Court. In fact, even one line says that he does so along with the case of a member of parliament who engages in other activities. It's not even deciphered, by the way, what kind of activity, but it's a different question. There are a number of deputies in this room, and they can tell you from their own practice how the Supreme Court wonders, or once again, for example, the Supreme Administrative Court, which decisions are made, and which arguments are taken into account, how they are not taken into account, and how this has been used effectively against the opposition, for example, for 2012-14 years -- very effectively. And I'll tell you, we still have a problem with that. It mentioned both the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. So let's think about it in this part. But what happened was that. I really hope it doesn't. Please tell me, and why is it that in the part of not personal voting we provide for the establishment of a fact, not by the Supreme Court, but by the ordinary court of general jurisdiction, the first instance? Guys, we're gonna go a long way! Starting with the Carpathians to Luhansk, I assure you, interesting court decisions await us. Interesting! Because the legal fact is the court's opinion, and you go then try and somehow cancel this decision at the appeals office. If the court says, "And I think that's how it was to establish a fact, because someone pressed it instead of a deputy." The MP knows neither sleep nor spirit. Or, unfortunately, it does happen, but today dozens of cases have been announced when the system didn't work, and he hasn't voted or voted or voted for it. And it's going to be a perfectly established legal fact, and it's going to be an irresistible thing for you to be forced in the same way to accept this legal fact. You don't have to do anything here. The legal fact established by the court is the final one, and it's going to be the end of the line for you to be deprived of your mandate. I don't know who wrote this project. But we discussed it on the committee yesterday, and the President's representative assured us that it was the Supreme Court. And for him, I think it was even a revelation that he found out that it was a simple trial. And I think that this kind of slap is random, and someone has programmed very clearly for the future about the proper work of the national MPs of this convening and all the subsequent calls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u255	Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of the political party "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u256	Dear colleagues, we're about to tell a lot of stories about someone coming in the first time, someone came in earlier. Please tell me, everyone who worked in factories six months ago, in offices, how do you get to work? But two thirds of the businesses today are equipped with an electronic input system. Don't you wonder how you get into this room? What is it, you came in the morning, you pressed the pros button, and you think you've already done the change? Why don't you just go ahead and play? Well, that's what's proposed further than the implementation of this law? Colleagues, you don't understand what a trap you're all in. The Fatherland faction doesn't just vote for each of these bills. You can only understand one thing: if just six months from now, the final changes to the Constitution will be made, this session hall will not pass about two dozen laws, including the Regional Open Lists Act, you will not get a vote from us alone, and many other factions will not. So whoever thinks it's going to be over today, no, Your Honor, the President gave a year's notice to everyone? There will be no year. The time has really begun. The clock is running, and the bell is ringing. If immediately a working group of the Supreme Council to reform the work of the Supreme Council. By the way, Mr. Cox, former head of the European Parliament, sent letters to all factions. What the working groups of the previous convocation did, but unfortunately there was no political will, these are ready decisions that can already be implemented. We've got real months left. If we don't adopt two dozen normative acts during this time, including the procedure for the registration and entry of national MPs, and, excuse me, the exit of national deputies from the session room, you won't miss a decision in 300 votes. I guarantee you that. So it just started. And it's no longer going to happen when someone pushes "for" in the morning and assumes that he's been working in this session room. No, it's not. That's why the Fatherland faction supports all these decisions. She is ready to join the working groups immediately to be formed. We invite the Chief of the Supreme Council to do this and to work out a list of laws that implements all these things. So that we don't hear stories about what we're changing the Constitution to reduce the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u257	Thank you. Colleagues, indeed, both political reform and the reform of the Rules are our priorities. I'm sure you and I will be working on this in the shortest possible time. For the final word, the Ukrainian national deputy, President of Ukraine's Constitutional Court Fedir Volodymyrovich Venislavski, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u258	Honourable National Deputies, Your Honor, it is a matter of having a normal, normal working order in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There can be no situation in the Supreme Council where MPs ignore the requirements of legislation and deal with other interesting matters at a time when all Ukrainian citizens on businesses, institutions, organizations have to work according to the Internal Labour Regulations. The national deputies of Ukraine must work under the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy. And this bill is specifically aimed at all the national MPs working on the bill, working on committees on other issues that relate to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's consideration and not abuse their status, which to this day allowed them to avoid legal responsibility for not being in the session hall, for not being in the country at all when Parliament is working. In order for this to not happen, it is proposed that these changes be made to article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. With regard to our decision today, I call on you once again to support the introduction of this bill into the agenda of the day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to refer it to the Constitutional Court for compliance with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u259	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. The vice president of the Committee on Legal Policy, Olga Volodymyrny Sougir, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u260	Dear colleagues, the Legal Policy Committee, according to the Committee's previously announced conclusion, asks for support for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u261	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please take all your seats. In accordance with article 146 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting for the adoption of the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 1027/P) on the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth call for a bill amending article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for additional reasons for the suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy) and its referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Is everyone ready to vote? Please vote and vote. [[19:37:50]] For 279 For 279, versus 19, holding 35. Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" 240, "Responsible Platform for Life" 15, "European Solidarity" 0, "Fatherhood" 14, "For the Future" 0, "Voice" 0, "non-fractional" 10. Thank you again, colleagues, the decision is made. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law (registration number 1028) amending article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine (consultative, advisory and other subsidiary bodies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine) is being submitted to your consideration. According to the requirements of part one of article 146 of the Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. For the report, the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Fedor Volodymyrovich Venislavski, is given to the Ukrainian national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u262	The honourable Presidium, the distinguished national deputies, the glory of God, we have drawn close to the last bill introduced by the President of Ukraine, defined as urgent for us to bring it into the order of the day session.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u263	I would call not only for order, but for the basic culture of the people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u264	Ladies and gentlemen, this is about supplementing article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine with one provision that provides for the right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to form advisory bodies. What are we talking about? The point is that, in accordance with article 6 of the Constitution, the legislative, executive, judicial authorities exercise their powers on the basis, within and in the manner provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. Without the constitutional powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is no right to implement any bodies not provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine, no authority that is not secured by article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine. At yesterday’s meeting of the Committee on Legal Policy, we have already learned with the help of Mr. Knazevitch that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has already violated the Constitution of Ukraine by establishing the Supreme Council legislature as the subsidiary body of the Supreme Council. The point is that according to article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council exercises the other powers provided for in the Constitution. If in other powers of the Supreme Council the right to form any authority is not provided, this does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, precisely to bring into conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine the right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to implement other powers, as enshrined in article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, we propose. Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky proposes this bill. Why do you need advisory bodies in the first place? One of the main ones. One of the main tasks of the People's Party in the Supreme Council, I hope, deep down, of the people's deputies, is to bring about an elementary order in that mass of legislation that exists today. It's about codifying legislation, about repealing after a review of those laws that are dead and the advisory advisory body itself, for example, the Codification Commission can do it the best. Such a Codification Commission will include not only the Ukrainian national deputies if they want, for example, legal professionals, experts, who will deal with these issues in a professional way. Therefore, we propose to include a bill on the creation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of advisory bodies in the agenda of the day session and to refer to the Constitutional Court to reach a conclusion on the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u265	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. Will there be questions for the reporter? They will be. Please sign up. Thank you. National Deputy Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u266	Your Honor, I have a question to ask you about the following content: today, in Parliament, the Supreme Council's apparatus, in the framework of the Supreme Council's apparatus, there is, inter alia, the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which concludes on all drafts, in the Supreme Council's apparatus, there is the Chief Legal Authority, which prepares bills for second reading. I have something to do with this. All of these bodies are subsidiary advisory bodies that ensure the work of Parliament. What now prevents, within the framework of budgetary expenditure, the creation of bodies without the need to make appropriate changes to the Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u267	The answer to your questions is very simple. The point is that the Constitution of Ukraine directly foresees the existence of the Supreme Council apparatus, because the head of the Apparatus is appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I mean, it's absolutely the Constitution of Ukraine's organ. Other bodies that are not provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine cannot form a parliament. Because once again, Parliament is operating within the limits provided for in the Constitution. The decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has been repeated. The decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has repeatedly stated that Parliament, through laws, cannot even extend its own powers. That is, if these powers are not provided for in the Constitution, Parliament does not have the right to implement them, and so those bodies created by the Supreme Council without the right to create them are provided for in the Constitution itself, they are doubtfully legitimate in terms of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u268	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u269	Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP. A lube? Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u270	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, I'd like to continue with the question that my colleague Mr. Krulko asked you, and you didn't answer it. First. It's a major scientific and expert office, it exists in the Supreme Council's apparatus. Is it prescribed in the Constitution? No, it's not. House Management — Is It Designed? No, it's not. Please tell me, even in committee, public councils are formed, experts are involved, they're all doing the same thing -- they're studying legislation. Why create additional organs by making changes to the Constitution if we can. Next year, we need to create a new body -- we write a budget request, we set up funds, we create an organ within our current schedule, and we have it. Why change the Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u271	Thank you for asking. Once again, I want to give you the answer I already gave you today. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to act only on the basis of the Constitution. If the right in the Constitution is not enshrined, the creation of any organ will be questionable legitimately from the point of view of legitimacy. As far as the Supreme Council's apparatus, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, is concerned, it's government officials, it's a protective service that carries out its mandate under the relevant legislation to ensure the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this case, it is a consultative body that can be formed by the Supreme Council in the event that it votes for it, i.e. there will be no automatic creation of organs, that we only legitimize Parliament's mandate to form any body that Parliament considers necessary. There is no such right in Parliament today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u272	Thank you. Lucenko Irina Stepanovna, a parliamentary group It's a European Solidarity faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u273	Ruslan Knyazevich is singing over and over again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u274	Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u275	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Thank you, Irina Stepanovna. I have a question for the President's representative. You know, we really had a discussion yesterday, but I'm very concerned about the example that you set. You gave an example of a codification commission, and we have, indeed, a certain fear, because a codification commission that will be legitimized at the level of the Constitution will be sufficient to determine, as you said, which of the bills is dead, which is alive, which is half-living, which is to be revived, which is to be introduced, which is to die, I don't know, and so on. These are unnatural and unconstitutional powers that are passed on to some subsidiary body in Parliament. Then why Parliament? Why the Machine? Why committees, why secretarial committees? What's with the scientific expertise, the legal, the same Law Institute that you mentioned? That's a huge number of people, MPs. We have thousands of people working in and around the Office of the Supreme Council. What's more, we can do scientific expertise for anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u276	Let me finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u277	We have serious fears, develop these fears, that they are completely different from what you said.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u278	Thank you for asking. In fact, we can't have any fears, because once again, I emphasize, there is no automaticity at the level of the Constitution -- no codification committees are specifically provided for in our bill. I gave this as an example to show that the Supreme Council, with you people's deputies, can vote in accordance with the Constitution, the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If we have 226 or more votes in common, we will create the body that we consider in accordance with the Constitution and the Law of Ukraine on the Rules of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u279	Thank you. Grand Chief Mikola Romanovich, European Solidarity faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u280	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u281	Ruslan Knazevich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u282	I don't want this to be an absurd thing in a constant discussion, but still, please tell me, what other organs, besides the nature you called, do you predict? Give these examples. Because what you're saying is that I have a personal objection. If you say anything else, call it at least 2-3, because the one you're proposing is for a clear purpose. I'll point that out again. You could call at least two, three, five organs to be attached at the constitutional level? If it's just one organ, it's absurd to make changes to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u283	Thank you for asking. In fact, it goes, and I've already talked about legitimizing those organs that already exist: the same Supreme Council Institute of Legislation, which exists without the authority of the Supreme Council on its creation. And about the formation of those advisory bodies that the Supreme Council will consider necessary. If the Supreme Council discusses any question or prepares a question to consider that it needs the expertise of a group of legal practitioners, it may, in the framework of this mandate, establish such a professional expert group of narrow experts in a specific field in order to listen to suggestions, recommendations, advice and approve or not adopt a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u284	Thank you, Feder Volodymyrovich. Thank you. It is suggested that the report invite the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Olga Volodymyrny Sougir.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u285	On 30 August 2019, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy, under the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council, considered, at its meeting on 2 September 2019, Protocol 2, submitted by the President as an urgent bill amending article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for advisory, advisory and other subsidiary bodies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine) (registration No. 1028 of 29 August 2019) and, having examined it in accordance with articles 145, 146 of the Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine), recommended that the President of Ukraine, as an immediate bill amending article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine (registration No. 1028) (from 29 August 2019), should be included in the agenda of the day's second session of the Supreme Council of the Nine, as an immediate bill amending article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine (registration No. 1028) (from 29 August 2019). Add the appropriate materials and please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u286	Thank you, Olga Volodymyrna. Is there a question for the reporter? If there are no questions, thank you. Let us turn to the discussion from the MPs and the national MPs. Please sign up for the performances by the MPs. Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich, faction of the political party "The Voice" is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u287	Here we have moved on to the final draft of the agenda, which the President has identified as urgent. On each issue, the rapporteurs came out and told us that a very, very urgent project should be urgently accepted, without ever explaining why we could not accept it in accordance with the Rules, in accordance with the established procedure. No one explained why the Main Committee did not listen to the conclusion of the Committee on Budgets in accordance with Article 93 and the Rules. No one explained why they did not listen to the findings of the Committee on Prevention of Corruption, why they did not reach the conclusion of a committee responsible for Ukraine’s international cooperation. No one explained why our projects were here. The conclusions of the Science and Technology Administration have not been added to the draft decisions. No one explained the need for an urgent committee on legal policy, questions, and intersessional issues. And the answer is, for every bill, every bill can find either populism or the President's desire to increase his authority, or the President's desire to reduce and cut the powers of the people's deputies. Having listened to all the discussions, listening to the reasoning of the rapporteurs and opponents of these bills, I absolutely argue that there was no need to address these issues in a non-regulatory procedure without the conclusions of the relevant committees and without the conclusions of the Venice Commission. That's why I think that in the future we should be very strict about all the initiatives coming out of the President's Office, in cases where we're being convinced that the issue is urgent. And everyone asks further, if you're arguing the urgency of a project, please argue it in a way that makes it clear to the members of the minority factions, and to the deputies of the majority factions, and to the electorate, and to the journalists. And answer these questions not only in the room, but also in the press. And justify it to make it clear, because there was no argument. I suggest you finish this one. Today it's a vote. And in the future, in order to form the agenda, listen more to the minority factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u288	The word is given to Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u289	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please give it to Rostislav Pavlovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u290	Rostislav Pavlovenko, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u291	Thank you. Madam President, distinguished fellow national MPs, distinguished voters! You know, the consideration of daytime affairs today is a little bit like the well-known legal parable of illegal and illogical. Because we have, on the one hand, drafts that can be put into a conditional package like this. I think a lot of the projects that we're going to be looking at in this room, they're going to specify a lot of those positions and they're going to answer why at many times of constitutional change, we haven't heard the specifics, we've heard a lot of general phrases in answer to a question, and at times when it's absolutely necessary to specify mechanisms, for example, with regard to the people's legislative initiative, we've only seen a half line of text instead. Because the economy of constitutional text is not a reason or a motivation to work with laws. And the second part of the question is what we're looking at right now, is that the sun rises in the morning. Because there's a Supreme Council apparatus, within it you can create any auxiliary, advisory and any other unit. And what has been said is that they are government officials, yes, maybe it's a good thing that they work for the state and come out of the public interest, and maybe they will then be one of the ways to hold back some of those unrestrained initiatives that we see in those bills that are registered. So we will not support this draft changes to the Constitution. And I'd like to remind you of another important thing. From June in the Office of the President of Ukraine there is a draft of Act No. 1098 on temporary commissions of inquiry and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This has already been discussed today, in response we have heard that you are in your own time. Do you know what it's like to be in your own time? There are very specific issues, there are very specific documents, so if you really want to improve Parliament's work, please make a decision about the documents that have been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u292	Tsimbaluk Mikhailovich, political party of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u293	The President-in-Office, the President-in-Office, the honourable deputies, all those who watch and hear us, in fact the President's attempt to bring all those structures, the advisory bodies, the advisory bodies that work with the Supreme Council, will receive support from the Father-in-law fact, but we would like to see a clear list of all these advisory advisory bodies to be kept up to date, and the deputies of the Supreme Council, the public and all the Ukrainian society have seen who will be working in these bodies: whether they are members of the national parliaments, of the public activists and what the budget will be. I wish we could talk less about how the previous Supreme Council worked, but still those bills, most of which we've been looking at today, are all the failures of the vice-presidents of the eighth vocation. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u294	Thank you. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u295	Dear colleagues, the "For the Future" MPs will not support this bill. We'll explain why. Well, you know, we all understand that we need to support the initiative, but we can't understand why the Constitution of Ukraine needs to be changed in order to create subsidiary bodies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Why make changes to the Basic Law? Why follow such a serious and long procedure? In the Constitution, I would like to correct my colleague who introduced this bill, he said that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is using the Constitution of Ukraine in its activities. Thus, the Constitution stipulates that the Supreme Council of Ukraine applies the Constitution of Ukraine and the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Right, we can make a simple change to the Ukrainian Law on the Rules, we can make a change to the Ukrainian Committee Act, we can even make changes to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. 226 is everything, and we're creating loving auxiliaries, dear consultative bodies. I'm holding tomorrow's first meeting of the Human Rights Committee and the reintegration of the Donetsk and Lugansk region. Five years ago, an advisory body was created -- committee board, committee board -- with no law, no pay. They have all the rights, they have the certificates of scientists, they work, they come, they help to understand legislation. Not one law has been passed with them. Why make changes to the Constitution, my friends? It seems to us today that the Constitution is just some toy we decided to play today. I understand that serious changes, we voted on them, and together we supported changes in the integrity of the deputies. Because it is, I understand, a society that requires a change in the Basic Law of our society. Tell me, why can't we create any organ without changing the Constitution? I'll tell you, we can. I told you that there is no body in the Constitution of Ukraine like the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, but it is, it works and it helps all the national MPs adopt laws. So, guys, let's get this over with, because it's bad. This procedure, the change in legislation, we're going to lead to a nightmare: whatever we want to introduce into any law, let's write in the Constitution of Ukraine. My deep conviction is that what society requires must be incorporated into the Constitution. And we did it today. Everything else, we can change the laws of Ukraine regarding the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we urge you not to support the change in this part.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u296	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich Schufric, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for making such a presentation one more time today. Dear colleagues, you know, I mentioned an incident in my MP's life. This is 2000 years, if I'm not mistaken, so-called the Oxamite Revolution, we're sitting in the Ukrainian House and we have this inspiration -- we vote, we vote, we vote. And the finance minister Mityukov comes in and asks me, " Nestor, can we vote on the budget?" And then everyone stopped. I mean, maybe it's time to stop making changes to the Constitution. I respect the initiative to involve consultants. It's okay. But I am absolutely convinced and I agree with the previous speakers that this is not a subject of the Constitution. We must respect our Basic Law. We've already initiated and sent so much, and this, too, I feel, will be sent to the Constitutional Court, that our constitutional judges will simply, well, God give them health, deal with it all. As for the possibility of involving consultants, I would not like to offend our, really, very experienced, highly qualified experts and staff of the Chief Scientific and Legal Department and other departments and offices of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Believe me, if we're in our legislative initiatives in some way wrong, they're very correct, they'll respectfully point to our mistakes in their conclusions. What are external consultants? That means we don't believe in ourselves as legislators. I'm already spending one day with you, almost one night, all day and all. Well, by the way, I said we'd be done by 8:00. And you know, I believe in you, I believe in your talents and your abilities, and in our ability to generate laws ourselves. And I'm grateful for wanting to help us, but this is exactly the case of "help yourself first." I think that we, as Ukrainian national deputies, have not only gathered to carry here nights and signs of national MPs, but also to generate the laws that the country needs. And we are grateful for the advice. We're going to have to -- we're going to be able to get the experts involved, we're going to be able to pay for our resources, but we're going to be able to pay for specifics if we need them. And today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u298	Give me 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u299	And today, I'd like to make sure that we don't offend our specialists who are working with us in the session room and outside the session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u300	Let me make a deal. Let me make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u301	Did you say 30 seconds? And so that we don't get offended and believe in ourselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u302	Thank you. Please sign up for the speeches by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Stefanchuk Mikola Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u303	Good afternoon. I'm so glad we came up with the last question. But what worries me is that any legislative initiative coming out of the President is, no matter what initiative it is, whether it's a question of the responsibility of a national MP, or whether it's a question of reducing the number of national MPs, or whether it's a question of national initiative. Now we have questions about advisory, advisory and other subsidiary bodies of the Supreme Council. And again, we hear a number of doubts from our fellow deputies. I can't understand why this opposition is happening. Why can national deputies not go to the people of Ukraine and improve the lives of every Ukrainian? Create an effective system of legislation? To enable the Supreme Council to create advisory, advisory bodies for more effective activities? Of course, we have the Institute of Legislation at the Supreme Council. This is a very professional and effective body. But we should not forget those types of people who need the help of every national MP. We should be able to create advisory, advisory bodies for veterans. We should be able to create advisory and advisory bodies for pensioners, for socially vulnerable groups, for families, young people, sports, and doctors. Why do we today have such opposition? What's more, we don't have a vote today, we're just proposing this project for consideration by the Constitutional Court. You all say you need a professional evaluation. Who can make a more professional assessment as the Constitutional Court of Ukraine? Nobody. So I ask you to gather and allow us to evaluate the President's legislative initiative to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Let us work effectively because we have been authorized by the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u304	Thank you. Paul Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People" is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u305	Thank you for the invitation. I want to say that I've listened to these speeches here today, and I totally agree with Stefanchuk Mikola about what I said, and I think that's the expression, you know, there's this notion of "professional degradation" and what's happening here in such an easy question, yes, about going to the Constitutional Court for the conclusion of the Constitutional Court. And the question that concerns the order of our legislation in order of the Constitution is that it is subject to such opposition, and such a complex discussion on this issue we will still come, as a minimum, twice. And that's why I think that all the questions that have been heard and will sound today will have to be made after we have reached the conclusion of the Constitutional Court. And now, I think the people of Ukraine are expecting real action from us, not discussion or sending or sending. Let's send this bill to the Constitutional Court, get this conclusion, study it, and then discuss with you how to act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u306	Thank you. The word is given to Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u307	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency, European Solidarity faction. Please hand over Victoria Sumar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u308	Victoria Sumar, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u309	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's think about what we've been doing here for the past 20 hours for 11 minutes, we're looking at a bill that I'd call something like "parliamentary pads," because Parliament has decided that it's missing some organs. Well, it used to be enough and everything worked out fine. Now some problems have arisen, and it's called loud words, we're demonstrating the interests of the people of Ukraine, and we're defending the rights of the people. What rights do we have here when we consider legislative spam, which has no meaning at all, colleagues? I'll tell you what we do. We're doing the pianist because the pierre is ruddering. I understand you have to show the huge efficiency of the ruling party that forced everyone to work at 20:12 instead of having a normal meeting tomorrow at 10:00 a.m.? And look at all of this. I'm not talking about this bill anymore, which, really, everyone has already said, it doesn't make any sense. I can tell you a big secret, but the committees are good enough places for all steakholders to deal with all legislative issues, and it works all the time. And in principle, people who have ever dealt with legislation, they know that very well. Come to the committees, don't ruin their meaning. Let's thank our science-expert administration, there are extremely professional lawyers working there. [[Applause]] We even have an entire Institute of Higher Qualifications, colleagues. That's why we can create as many pads as we can in the interests of the people, but it doesn't matter to the interests of the people. Please sell the car park of the Supreme Council, there will be more benefits for the people and the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u310	The word is given to Laby Mikhail Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u311	Dear colleagues, today there were enough arguments not to work, probably and was delayed for that and procedural time. The questions were many, and the cameras were used for television. I'd like to support you. A colleague of ours from "European Solidarity" even wants to audition in "95th Quarter." But that's his question. "Purple pies," and you don't stop against Venislavsky. I propose to support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u312	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the closing statement is invited. Huh? In fact, for the first time today, the Ukrainian National Deputy President of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Fedir Volodymyrovich Venislavski, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u313	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies, Your Honor! I'd like to sum up a lot of innuendo that came out today about this last bill. The fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine formed some organs without constitutional authority is the problem of the Supreme Council that did so. There are professional lawyers in the People's Party who claim that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no right to do what is not provided for in the Constitution. The Regulation Act. [[Applause]] The Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not establish additional powers, honourable national deputies, the Law on Rules only determines the order of work of the Supreme Council. And in this bill, we're talking about that the Supreme Council has the constitutional right to form those organs that it's already created against the requirements of the Constitution in order to put the constitutional basis under it under these bodies. And no one is saying, honourable national deputies, that by establishing in article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine the right to form some advisory bodies will automatically lead to their formation. Once again, this is a mandate that the Supreme Council will be able to implement in those forms that are enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine. So there is no problem with this last bill and there can be no problem. To call it legislative spam is at least not a very clear understanding of the constitutional and legal status of Parliament. I therefore call on the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the inclusion of this bill in the agenda of the daily session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to refer it to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to obtain a conclusion on its compliance with the requirements of articles 156, 157 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u314	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. In conclusion, the Vice - Chief of the Committee on Legal Policy, Olga Volodymyr, is invited to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u315	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy, according to a previously announced conclusion, asks for support for this bill on amending the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u316	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. We're moving on to making a decision. In accordance with article 146 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, I am voting for the adoption of the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 1028/P) on the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call for a bill amending article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for advisory, advisory and other subsidiary bodies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine) and on its referral to the Constitutional Court. Are they ready to vote for the national MPs? Please vote and vote. [[20:18:08]] For 264 For 264, against 23, holding 35. The decision is taken, the decision is taken as a whole. Please show by factions. "People's Servant" – 243, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland – 13, "For the Future" – 2, "The Voice" – 0, non-fractional – 6. Thanks again, colleagues. Dear colleagues, we are. Ruslan Alexiyovich, you have the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u317	Dear colleagues, I won't say we've had another hundred laws, but I just have to say that we have notes from the National MPs that the buttons haven't worked again. That's what it takes for a stenographer. It's from a national MP. from the Ukrainian National Deputy Tkachenka Alexander Mihajlovich: I ask you to count my vote in favour of the draft Law 1027. From the national deputy of Getmantsev: please list my vote in favour, draft Act amending the Constitution, article 81 (for additional reasons for the early termination of the powers of the national deputy). The button didn't work. From the Kalchenka People's Deputy: 1027 did not work the "yes" button when voting for Decree 1027. Let's count it. From the Shufrich People's Deputy: In view of the fact that my button for Bill 1015/P didn't work, please consider my vote in favour. From the People's Deputy Kovalova's Statement: I ask you to count my vote in favour of Bill 1015 because the button didn't work. From National Deputy Mikhailuk, please consider my voice "for" in the appointment of Bakanov as Head of the SBU. Please, from Suška, count the vote in favour of the draft Decision on the discharge of a member of the Board of NBU Milovanov. Again, from the National Deputy Mikhailuk: I ask you to consider my vote in favour of discharge as a member of the Council of the National Bank of Milovanov. From National Deputy Kiesel, please take my vote "yes" into account when voting on draft Law 1015. From National Deputy Zuba, please take my vote in favour of Bill 1015. From National Deputy Gurin, please take my vote in favour of draft Decree 1016. Please take my vote in favour of the draft decree 1016 from the Jurchenko People's Deputies. Please take my vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u318	Please vote in favour of Decree 1016 – by the National MP. Do not show a Excuse me, yes. From the National MP Vasilko, I ask for a vote in favour of bill 1016. It's from the Owl People's Deputy to count my vote for 1016. From Voronov to Pro for Project 1017. From Nataluha to pro for 1017. From Stryharski to Za in 1016. And the last. During the vote, the 1017 button did not work from the people’s deputy Raduccik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u319	The word for information is given to Vreszczuk Irina. Turn on the microphone, please, Vreschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u320	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have one small announcement? Yesterday our deflimpic congregation in Ukraine, and this is a limited - hearing athlete, returned from the world swimming championship in Brazil. Our team showed excellent results, taking 3 general command: 3 gold, 13 silver, 4 bronze medals. Let's welcome them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-03-m1.u321	Thank you, Irina. Dear colleagues, we have indeed done a historic thing today -- we have taken away the parliamentary inviolability. I'd like to thank everyone again for this, thank you for the work of the Machine. And let me remind you that this week, from Wednesday to Friday, Ukrainian national deputies are working on committees and parliamentary factions and groups. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, September 10, 2019, at 10 a.m. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
