ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Heads of factions, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Please take your seats and prepare for registration. Let's get started.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please register. [[16:07:28]] Thank you. There are 382 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Let's go back to the law on Bill 1048. Amendment 35, Nina Petrovna Jujanina. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down because you can't see. Mr. Mazurash. Please turn on the microphone of Yuzanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, I'm going to stop at just a few, but two-pronged amendments that I've been fighting for this whole period of deliberation of the bill. I would like, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, and you, honourable deputies, to read the conclusion of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union. And here's the conclusion: it is worth noting that according to EU legislation, the EU allows for certain simplifications not only to operators who are granted AEO status. And after considering the simplifications that I have proposed in the alternative bill, experts have written that from the foregoing it can be concluded that certain simplifications provided for in EU legislation are granted not only to authorized economic operators but also to other operators that meet the requirements set out for AEO in part. So now we're going to start with an amendment that's actually talking about that quantity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u4	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u5	that only authorized economic operators and those types of simplifications that we would like to give a wider circle of enterprises to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u6	Committee position, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u7	I want to point out that we would also like to give a larger circle of enterprises the opportunity to get individual simplifications by their kind of activity. But you and I need to start by putting in place an institution of an authorized economic operator that will have a set of simplifications and then maybe go on with some simplifications. That's how this structure works, and that's how this structure is perceived by the European Commission. So we're going to suggest that we reject these changes as being contrary to our concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u8	Nina Petrovna, don't you insist on voting? Thank you. National Deputy Bondarev, 37th Amendment. None. Don't insist. Okay. 49th Amendment, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, the 49th edition is about a simplified customs declaration. Mr. Danilo, you have a unique chance, and the European Commission will agree that you start small simplifications for businesses. You don't have to start from a bigger one, you have to start from a smaller one, just like Europe started. We have not made it, I agree that this institution must be established in Ukraine. But a simplification like a simplified declaration, well, you can definitely give up more businesses, and you're giving up on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u10	Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u11	We're going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u12	Nina Petrovna, are you insisting? Don't insist. Nina Petrovna, 51st, we, this is now. Nina Petrovna, 51st.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u13	51 the amendment refers to allowing our enterprises to use such a special simplification as a general guarantee with 100 percent coverage. You realize that we're opening an exclusive door in Ukraine right now for other non-Ukrainian operators, because in Poland, for example, 780 authorized economic operators and a large part of them are carriers that have this simplification. Do you have any idea who Ukrainian businesses are going to go to right now if Poland is going to come and leave Ukraine with these advantages? We're killing the Ukrainian business. Let's do everything that's balanced and for the Ukrainian business.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u14	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, Europe has been in the institution of an authorized economic operator for years. At first, they had separate simplifications for individual entrepreneurs, for individual activities. And then these individual simplifications were transformed into an institution of an authorized economic operator. Today, we are asked to implement this institution in a comprehensive way and to recognize it in a mutual way: we recognize them -- they recognize us. That's how it's going to work. This is the first step, and we've talked about this over and over again, that the law that we voted with you in September on common transit, and this law is the laws that have to start this process of unifying our customs rules with the European Union. And then, by completing these tools, to bring them to an ideal state, such as they are now in Europe. I think we've made the right choice. Thank you. I'd like to say no to the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u16	Thank you. 61 papers, Nina Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u17	Last amendment. Dear colleagues, we worked with the European Commission for three years to make these special simplifications work for our Ukrainian businesses. Please listen: more than 10,000 authorized economic operators in Europe. And we don't have a mirror norm that if we register, we simplify 20, we have to serve and accept only 20 authorized economic operators from Europe. No, all 10,000 can be here. Where do we run our own business? Right, totally wrong approach, unbalanced approach. You didn't have to hurry, you had to take a little bit more time to wipe out the European Commission, they'd agree. And you're making a deal right now just for another business, definitely not Ukrainian business. Thank you. And I'm not going to make an amendment to the confirmation. I think everyone in the room understands.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u18	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u19	Dear Nina Petrovna, you have been working on this law with the European Commission for 3 years and unfortunately we see the results of this work, which unfortunately we did not have at the time of the closure of the last Parliament. We're going back and forth to the same question over and over again: can we put in place a model that's not in line with European partners, but are we better off with you? Are we even going to get a "deadborn" structure? As a result of September, we are recognized by the public organizations as the most talkative MPs, me and you in second place. And I think you and I want to beat this record in October. And I don't think we need to talk about things that are obvious. We don't need a "deadborn structure," we need it to work. Thank you. I suggest we turn it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u20	Thank you. No. 68, Belkova. Edit 75, Bilkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u21	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u22	And get ready. I'm sorry, Olga. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite us. Dear factions, please invite the national deputies to the hall to prepare for the vote. This is the last edition, the last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u23	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Chairman of the Committee! I will not insist on voting on this amendment. At the same time, under the protocol, I wanted to record with you and the entire session hall that the next time we vote and pass laws relating to customs policy, we still have to record that the DFS reform has already been done and that the DFS functions are actually separate from customs. And according to all the further legislation, I'd like you and I not to rush into it, and we've taken my amendment into account for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u24	Thank you, Olga. Danilo Alexandrovich, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u25	Thanks for the readout. Indeed, we realize that it is necessary to rename the authorities in the Customs Code and, indeed, we will do so. Because we're looking forward to a bill from the Cabinet of Ministers concerning the only legal person on duty, the only legal person in the tax system, and that's where all these points will be reconciled. If you and I were to take into account the adjustments you made, these changes would be partially agreed upon, and that would not be entirely true. That's why we understand it, the amendments are absolutely correct, but they're inappropriate at this very moment in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u26	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. National deputies, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats! Yeah, it's from the Gethmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u27	I want to turn to opposition factions or factions that don't join the coalition. Dear colleagues, this law really needs a country, this is a law that brings our customs procedures closer to the customs procedures of the European Union and will remove the problem of smuggling in the near future. I ask you, despite any political differences, to support this bill, which has been waiting for the support of our Parliament for three years now, and to jointly vote for its adoption in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I am voting on the draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on certain matters of the functioning of authorized economic operators (registration number 1048). I'm betting on a second-reading vote and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Please support and vote. [[16:20:12]] For 270. Against - 6, holding - 46. The law was passed in general. Thank you. Show by factions: "The Servant of the People" - 229, "The Opposition Platform - For Life" - 0, "European Solidarity" - 1, "The Fatherland" - 6, "For the Future" - 12, "The Voice" - 15, "the non-factional" - 7. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. I'm sorry. There's a statement from two factions for a break with a replacement for a performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u29	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to thank the factions for the future. Colleagues, I want to inform you all, there's been a fake at the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. You and I have voted to include the Order in the agenda. Do you remember when "Paternity" asked questions and why other laws were not included? It was said that those laws that were not included were not considered by the committees. Is that what happened? Colleagues, I hereby inform you that today you have incorporated the Land Market Act, which was not considered on an agrarian committee, was not. Instead of considering the law on the agrarian committee, the head of the agrarian committee was sent a letter to the Head of the Supreme Council about the desire to include the bills from the agrarian committee. I want to say that the head of the agrarian committee is not an agrarian committee, and the decisions should be added to such a letter to the agrarian committee's decision. We have tried for an hour to have these bills put in advance, as stated in Rule 93 of the Rules, for a preliminary consideration on the committee. What was the refusal? No question was asked. That is why we consider and ask the Chief of the Supreme Council, since this was the case we had to offer. First. Make a service investigation of this fact. The other one. Request the decision of the agrarian committee for the inclusion in the agenda of bill 2178 on the sale of Ukrainian land, 2194 and 2195. And the third. Since you and I sincerely and honestly want to consider it because of the previous consideration, Mr. Chairman has given the people's deputies an answer to that question, to vote on that decision, and to exclude the bills that are confirmed by the decisions of the relevant committees, particularly the agrarian committee. Colleagues, you're being asked for agriculture today, you're being asked by Ukrainian society. Other factions came to the committee today, and the country’s public authorities were recognized. Believe me, this is an important bill. And there's no need to replace the agrarian committee's decision with simple letters. This will be fair before us, in front of those majors who work in the districts. Let's confirm that by voting again, but first, let's take a preliminary look at the agrarian committee. That's why we call on the Head of the Supreme Council: the service review, the voting, and the exclusion of those laws that were not previously considered by the relevant committees, particularly the agrarian committee. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u30	Thank you. Sole Santa. Is there a room? I'm asking you to do the show. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't understand. In order for him to report the situation? Let the committee head come out and say, Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u31	Thank you, Mr. Head. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. Vadim Evgenovich, thank you for asking. This week, on the Conciliation Council, it was suggested that these issues should be included in the agenda, three bills, one of which the Cabinet, including the leadership of your faction, had no objection. This morning it was put to a vote in the Supreme Council. Including those voted in favour of your faction. Bills included are also alternative to your faction on this vote. We discussed this issue on the committee today. In addition, I know that the following Friday will be the next committee where alternative bills, including yours, will be considered and the one to be voted upon, will be decided by a committee to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u32	30 seconds on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, you all saw yesterday's Conciliation Council meeting, you saw the leaders of many factions and groups speaking out against the Land Market Act. So today we are told about the following. There should be decisions of the agrarian committee on the previous consideration. If he's not here, do a service check. And finally. We're putting it on the regulatory committee today to figure out why it's actually a fake for such important bills. And we ask the Head of the Supreme Council to be consistent. You gave an answer to the people's deputies who asked questions from different factions that you would only include those bills that were previously considered by the respective committees. None.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u34	Vadim Evgenovich, I understand your alternatives are there. But I'm calling on the committee head to have a committee decision to put into the agenda. I think we can not vote, there will be a decision – we will vote for inclusion. I don't think it's necessary to vote if you don't mind. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us move on to the following issues of the order of the day. You are invited to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the grounds for referral to the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court and on the terms of the return of administrative cases (registration number 1026). This bill is discussed in a second reading. He's small, he's asking the national MPs not to split up, there's very little left. The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Kostin Andriy Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, your honor, thank you for your opportunity to speak up. This is a very important bill that deals with two issues. The first is the dissolution of the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court. So we suggest setting two filters so that the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court does not deal with matters that it should not deal with. First of all, it's a filter at the level of the court of cassation, which means they'll have the opportunity to stay out of the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice. disputes concerning jurisdiction in cases where a person did not make such a request at the trial of the first and appeal bodies or the Grand Chamber had already made a statement on the matter, and there is no point in loading the Grand Chamber with such cases. That's different. While working on the committee between the first and second readings, we accepted the amendments of the national deputies and added another filter. And even if the case goes to the Great Court of Justice, but the Supreme Court has already made a statement on the matter, he may turn the case back and not consider it. So we're dealing with the question of the dissolution of the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court, because it's happening now, that some parties are using this opportunity to stall the case. And secondly, the second purpose of this bill. We settle the question of the return of cases after appeal and cassation and set uniform rules for three codes: the economic, procedural, civil procedural and the Code of Administrative Justice. We set the only 15 days after the case is closed. That is, according to the code of decision, the full text of the decision should be made within five days and in complex matters for 10 days. So we suggest setting 15 days for all civil, domestic, and administrative matters in order to get things back on time. And this is very important for our citizens, for the users of the judicial system. Please support this bill as a whole, pass it as a law taking into account legal, technical and legal rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u36	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to law enforcement. No. 5, Aleksiev. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Number six, Christmas. Amendment 14, Alekseyev. Amendment number 15, Christmas. Edit 23, Aleksiev. 27, Alekseiv. All of it. Dear colleagues. Ah, Knyazevich, what's the readout? Turn on the Knyazevich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u37	Thank you, Mr. Head. There's a whole bunch of my parentheses that are partially accounted for. I'd like you to give me one minute, I'll explain my position and I won't insist. Me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u38	Okay. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u39	Yeah, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u40	Colleagues. No, one minute. Heads of factions, please invite a colleague, because after Ruslan Knazević's speech, we are moving on to the vote. Thank you. Give me your word, Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Dear Andriy Evgenovich, if you please, I will still sound the position that I spoke on the committee and urge us to listen to what I am about to say. I am very grateful to the committee that all my corrections are actually taken into account or partially counted. But there is one fundamental thing that I think is causing a big problem. It is not decided by the committee and we cannot leave it unresolved. We agreed yesterday and accepted my advice that the question of jurisprudence is still a matter of the Great Chamber, because it belongs directly to the application of the only practice, the harmonization of practice. But with this rule in mind, we passed it on to the Great Court of Justice, and we didn't delete it in all three codes in the court of cassation. Now it seems that the question of jurisprudence belongs to both the Great Court and the Court of Cassation. I would ask you a lot of questions about this question, whether it's whether it's now a vote, or it's a technical legal process, because I think it's a question that needs to be resolved by technical law, because we've decided it in principle. We've already handed it over to the Great Chamber, to leave now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u42	Thank you. I think we can go to the vote. Do I get it right? Yeah. Committee position. The position of the committee and then we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u43	Committee position. We've discussed this issue, but we believe that the court will not decide the jurisdictional issue. These disputes will be settled by the Great Court. But if the Great Court has already adopted a legal position on the jurisdiction of specific disputes, the court of the case will not refer the matter to the Great Court on the same issue. So I'm two different filters, I don't think there's any contradiction here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. I am voting for a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the grounds for referral to the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court and on the terms of return of administrative cases (registration No. 1026). Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:33:50]] For 271 Against 13, holding 46. Thank you. Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Colleagues, if you don't want to break up, that's enough of the three bills. With a small number of right-handers. You have been given a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on national regulation of space activities (registration number 1071). The report is given to the head of the Economic Development Committee, Natalusi Dmitry Andriyovich. There'll be slides.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u45	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. We tried to do a little experiment. If possible, the presentation will be sent to the monitor. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a prototype on the screen for the MK-1 spacecraft. This is a prototype that is completely real today. And you can have the next slide. He stopped being a fantasist for a long time. And on September 28, this year, he was represented at the Boca-Chica Cosmodrome in the United States by Space. The point is that the purpose of this device is to colonize Mars. And while the United States is seriously planning to colonize Mars in this century, Ukraine is still struggling with its own colonial complexes of the last century. What complexes? A daily, everyday state monopoly, including in the space sphere. Is it possible to make some money and build something like that from where to get it? You can have the next slide. Over the past 20 years, every dollar spent on space has made 7 percent of the profits. We do have the Southman, we have the South Day KGB. These are the world-renowned brands and colossals and the bright icons of Ukrainian cosmonautics. In the state of Ukraine, a truly glorious cosmic past, but what cosmic future is there in this country, venerable? And that's exactly what Bill 1071 is about giving Ukrainian space the future to demonolyze, in order to clear the license, in order to remove the necessary prohibitions and bureaucratic obstacles to the development of Ukrainian space. The committee considered the bill, and 22 amendments were made to it. Of these, 17 were counted, including essentially and editorially, and 5 were rejected. You can have the next final slide. Of those who have been considered and rejected, the most critical is the demonopolization of private companies in the space sphere in order to restore the status of the space state to Ukraine. Your Honor, space will be either Ukrainian or it doesn't exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u46	Thank you. Dmitri Andryovich, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the GNEU has reached a conclusion and in order to avoid disagreement with the law in force, I consider it necessary to agree with the GNEU and to propose to the Chief Legal Authority the wording of paragraph 4, paragraph 3, of section I of the bill, which is given to you in the next edition. Please support and vote on this paper. And I would also like to report that, following the discussions, the committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on State Regulation of Space Activities (1071) on the basis of consideration to be adopted in the second reading and as a whole as a law with further technical and legal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, we now, if I understand Dmitry Andriyovich correctly, have to vote in favour of this proposal. This proposal is supported by the committee and the professional administrations. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I'm betting on a vote that's just been called by the head of the committee. Please support and vote. [[16:38:09]] For 293 Thank you. Decision taken. To 293. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move to the right. Kisilevski's edits. Does he insist on his work? No, it doesn't. Then we can go to voting for the law as a whole. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the issue of adoption in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights of the draft Law amending some of Ukraine's legislation on national regulation of space activities (registration No. 1071). Dear colleagues, please support and vote. Please take your seats. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[16:39:05]] For 308. Against three, holding on to 29. Decision taken. Thank you. Let's go. The law is passed in general. Let's move on to the next question. Colleagues, please don't break up, there's no right here at all. You have been given a draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the application of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the State Special Service for the Transport of Military Equipment, Weapons and Special Means during a Special Period (second reading) (Registration No. 1224). The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on National Security, Defence, and Intelligence, Besugor Marianne Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u49	Hello! This draft law, which is proposed and prepared for second reading by the relevant committee, is a law governing the right to use military technology, the armed forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the State Special Transportation Service during a special period, as well as special measures for the protection of the State Special Transportation Service in peacetime and a special period prior to the introduction of the state of war and after its cessation or cancellation. In preparing the bill for second reading by law enforcement entities, there were 8 proposals, 5 of which were taken into account in full and 3 in editorial terms. In preparing the bill for second reading, the proposals of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office were taken into account. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council apparatus prepared for the second reading of the bill is being prepared without notice. The National Deputies of Ukraine and members of the Committee supported the bill and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading and in general as a law in the proposed editorial committee. This law actually regulates the issue of the use of weapons and military technology during a special period, that is, in the situation that has occurred now that neither peace time nor war status has been verified, and that is to say that we must protect, including legally, those who protect us in the east. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, because there is no motive, Herasim. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! "European Solidarity" will support this bill. And when you talk about the area of national security today, the key to national security today is the way to capitalize on Ukraine's signature and Ukraine's acceptance of the Steinmeyer formula. In the morning session of the two factions, European Solidarity and Voice, we asked the Supreme Council to invite the Foreign Minister to the Supreme Council, as well as the head of the General Staff, to hear from them a personal explanation of what is going on today. 'Cause there's a lot of bad signals coming. And what happened, and what was finally agreed by the Ukrainian side? Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, can you tell us if they will attend the evening meeting? Will he be a foreign minister and head of the General Staff? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u52	This information was sent and passed on to our colleagues. But for now, I'm not ready to answer whether they can be. Thank you. Let's go to the vote. And, colleagues, let's, if we take it for reasons, let's do it. Arthur Volodymyrovich, if you ask questions, you'd hear the answer. But it doesn't matter to you. Well, it's okay. Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine concerning the application by the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the State Special Service for the Transport of Military Equipment, Weapons and Special Means during a Special Period (Registration No. 1224) (second reading). Please prepare for the vote. Please support and vote. [[16:43:52]] For 307 Against 4, hold on to 19. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider the draft Law on Recognition, which has become invalid, of the Ukrainian Act on List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized (registration No. 1054/1). Reported to the Vice-President of the Economic Development Committee of Podlas Rocksolan Andriyov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u53	Good day again. Dear colleagues! Draft Law 1054-1 is a bill repealing the list of prohibited persons to be privatised. This list now includes more than a thousand state - owned enterprises. 90 percent of these companies are small-scale privatization facilities. Privatization of small objects in the ProZorro public auction system In one year, sales brought over 1.5 billion dollars to the state, 30 times more than the sales of similar objects in 2015. All these companies have become playgrounds to start a new business that creates jobs and pays taxes. The state is not an effective owner, and it will never be, and the state should be involved in raising social standards and developing the economy rather than being a businessman. That's why we're proposing and asking you to adopt Law 1054-1. For the second reading, we put in a bill of fuses that won't allow the bankruptcy of state-owned enterprises that have been artificially incurring debts all these years. We're introducing a moratorium on debt collection and bankruptcy for three years. In addition, we commit the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine within 3 months of the publication of the law to develop and submit to Parliament a list of strategic enterprises in which the state cannot sell the controlling package of shares. This is a modern approach to government property management, and it allows us to corporateize strategic state-owned enterprises and engage strategic investors in minority shareholder rights. The committee received 25 suggestions from national deputies in preparation for second reading, 12 of which were rejected, 13 counted in whole or in part. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council draft Law 1054-1 on second reading and in general further technical and legal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u54	Thank you, Roxolano Andriyevno. Let's move on to the right-hand side. Amendment number one, Royal. Don't insist. Amendment number two, Royal. She's not in the hall? Okay. Amendment 13, Yvchenko. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u55	We will. Well, 13 is definitely not yours. 14th, Skork. 14th. Are you insisting on the 14th? Ah, Yvchenko. All right, Ivchenka. 13 Amendments. Turn on Yvchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u56	I'm sorry, I have a table, Mr. Dmitri, I wanted to put on some confirmation. I understand it doesn't match what you're calling it. Because I wanted to get 14 people's deputies of Podlaso to confirm that they are not applying the sanction procedure, that is to say, the recovery of state-owned enterprises when they are being sold. What does that mean? That means we're not allowing state enterprises to return to normal functioning. So I want to put this right over here, maybe it doesn't match because I have the right. 15 revisions. I'd like to bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u57	Wait a minute, 15 revisions. Now you're talking about 13 revisions that are yours. No questions till 13? Okay. No, there is, yours is 14th. Yeah. Please, People's Deputy Skorik. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u58	Dear Mr. Golovo, citizens of Ukraine, People's MP Skorik, faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life". Edit next. This law takes effect from the day following the publication of the law governing the list of public property items that are not subject to privatization in the new edition. We insist that the law enters into force only after a new list. When Mrs. Podlasa says that the state has no place to intervene, that the state should not be a businessman, I can tell you that in all normal countries, such as Britain, such as France, the state sector occupies about 30 percent of the economy. In strong states, where the state is strong, and the economy is strong. If we are now, when prices for our property are low enough, we are going to give away our objects completely uncontrollablely, and this is a serious precaution to keep our objects from going anywhere. I insist on this and ask her to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u59	Thank you, Your Honor. Committee position on amendment No. 14 of the Skorik People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u60	Committee position: reject line 14. Because this is contrary to the view of the drafters of the bill. This contradicts the government's perception today that privatization is one of its strategic objectives. Yes, I agree with you, there are state-owned enterprises in the world, there are strategic state-owned enterprises. But when we talk about the list, this list that was approved in 1999, you've seen it beautifully, there's not, there's very little, really, strategic enterprises. In fact, it's decommissioned, it's a bankrupt, it's a corrupt state enterprise, and there's nothing left of it, except the sites that can be used to create a new business that will benefit the economy and the state. These businesses, which are in this list, are slowly dying. And unfortunately, they're not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u61	Thank you, Rocsolana Andrienne. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number 14 of the People's Deputies of Skorik. Please identify and vote. [[16:51:04]] Z-62 Thank you. For 62. The decision is not taken. National Deputy Yvchenko. Are you insisting on confirmation of license number 15? You've been performing. Are you telling me whether you insist or not? You insist. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm betting on confirmation. The position of the committee is Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u62	Edit 15 is counted by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u63	I mean, the committee supported her, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u64	The committee supports number 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u65	Okay. Dear colleagues, I'm asking for confirmation of the 15th National MP of Roxolana Andriyovna Podlasa. Please support and vote. [[16:52:02]] For 245 Edit is confirmed. Let's move on. Amendment number 16, National Deputy Davidenko. To confirm what? What's that? It's rejected. I'm sorry, only the person who filed the application could ask for it. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, colleagues, she's rejected, she can't be put on confirmation. Ladies and gentlemen, please read the Rules. You are not the first time in this room. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can't, please look at the Rules. I understand that, so I think you can answer about your revision on your own without the help of your colleagues. Thank you. Turn on Davidenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, this is where the description comes from. In paragraph 2, the word "enlarges" is replaced by the word "encroached" in the case of business bankruptcy. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u67	Thank you. Please tell me, do you insist on voting? Yes. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number 16 of the national MP Davidenka. Please identify and vote. [[16:53:35]] Z-85 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. 17, Royal. None. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can't ask for confirmation. Raise the Rules, please. Can you report it if you haven't made it? Dear colleagues, license number 20, Yvchenko. 18th for confirmation. Turn on Yvchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u68	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, once again, I want to say what is in this law. First. Banning state-owned companies, that is, we do not allow them to be repaired to enter normal conditions. The other one. We forbid this, this amendment, to do an act of execution against it. In these enterprises, effectively banning companies that borrowed funds or provided services directly to work in court with state-owned enterprises. Next. Colleagues, you're all majors, and I remember there's a Mayor in the Bilocerk district who wrote, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So you're subtracting from the list of banned objects to privatize the Crucifixion. It's 7 and 8. And the 10 is directly called Ucroborprom. Do you think you're doing? You want to corporateize, start a private equity. And where does it guarantee to those people that this mail will not be closed in this village? So we're going to propose this permission to confirm, and other amendments, let us do the same. And there's no voting for this law at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u69	Thank you. Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u70	First of all, the Crucifixion. We're not proposing to privatize the Crucifixion. We exclude the national postal operator from article 4 of the Ukrainian Privatisation Act only in order to be able to introduce a strategic investor into a minority stock package. This isn't about privatization. With regard to the acquisition of property. If we hadn't put up this fuse, we'd have half of these state-owned enterprises going bankrupt tomorrow and being indebted to creditors. Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u71	Thank you. Are you insisting on confirmation? Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we will now vote for the confirmation of Amendment 18, which has been counted by the committee. Please prepare for the vote. This was taken into account by the committee, right? You tell me, please, it's not me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, number 18 is counted by the committee. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number 18 of the national deputy of Podlaso, who was counted by the committee. Please support and vote. [[16:57:14]] For 240 Edit is confirmed. Ladies and gentlemen, number 20, Yvchenko. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u74	Mr. Head, since we've just been given other tables, and before that, when we were preparing in the morning, there were tables that don't match the numbers, I'd like to go back to number 7 -- this is actually "The Crucifixion," which is also "The Crucifixion," where we remove them from the law on objects that are not allowed to privatize. And by the way, we're with you, the new philosophy of the "Serial of the People" Party, is in violation of article 116. How is the committee voting in violation of article 116? Colleagues, how? Where is our new philosophy? And I'm going to ask the next one, number 10, to put it on confirmation, because that's the question of Ucrobanprom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u75	Okay. Then I have the next proposal, we, because we've passed them, we'll go back to them in the end and we'll vote in favour of the above-mentioned amendments. Rocksolana Andriyevn will read them and we will vote for them. Okay? Thank you. Number 23, Davidenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, with this right, we want to commit ourselves to the implementation of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the list of objects that are not subject to privatization, because by Bill 1054-1 we are in general repealing the law that introduces a list of state property objects that are not subject to privatization. Accordingly, the bill does not mention that the new norm will oblige the Cabinet of Ministers to implement article 85 of the Ukrainian Constitution. So I'm betting on confirming this amendment. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u77	Thank you. Committee position. But briefly, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u78	Rejected, since we are obliged by Rule 22 to give the Kabin a list.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u79	Do you insist on voting? Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number 23 of the national MP Davidenka. Please identify and vote. [[16:59:58]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 24. National Deputy Yvchenko. Don't insist. Amendment number 25. National Deputy Davidenko. Don't insist. Yvchenko! Vadim Evgenovich, what a question you are. What changes did you want to make for confirmation? Please turn on Ichchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u80	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we understand that there are some jobs in the government. But believe me, we've already sold "The Shrimp." We don't know who this investor's gonna be, who's gonna come to the Crucifixion. Well, we don't know if he'll be good. We don't know what to offer to peasants when they close the post office. Well, it's impossible to rule out these objects without understanding, in violation of article 116 of the Rules of Other Law, of another law, not even of this, on the prohibition of objects of privatization, including strategic enterprises of Ucrobanprom. I understand someone wants public stock companies, corporations do. Colleagues, but wrongly, without realizing what tomorrow will be, will vote today. So the request to you, let's not back up the fine on Crucifixion and defense, and it'll be a state decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u81	Thank you. What adjustments? Can we put them to the vote with a package? No, we can't. Okay. Dear colleagues, the position of the 7th Amendment Committee. The 7th, the 8th, the 10th revisions immediately, please, and we'll vote 7th, 8th and 10th in a row.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, the committee supports and counted 7, 8 and 10. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the vote number 7 of the national MP, Nataluha Dmitr Andriyovich. Please prepare for the vote. Colleagues ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:02:28]] For the 250. Decision taken. Edit is confirmed. Amendment No. 8 - I'm putting it to a vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Show by factions. Please be supportive. 231 – "Serve of the people", "Golos" – 13. Next. Amendment number 8. Please support and vote. I'll bet on it. [[17:03:00]] For 243 Decision taken. Amendment number 10. Please support and vote. Well, turn on the factions. I'm betting on the vote number 10. Please support and vote. [[17:03:28]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote on the bill. Show by factions. I'll put it to a vote, I'll put it to a vote. Turn on the Spark microphone, a minute of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, I insist once again that this bill should only work once a new list of these enterprises, strategic enterprises that are not privatized, is adopted. The bill provides three months for the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a new list. What's going to happen in these three months, no one knows, and we understand that we can lose a lot of businesses over these three months. This bill is completely unconstitutional because it deprives the Supreme Court of its supervisory functions of privatization. In this call, you have deprived the Supreme Council of the possibility of working on a monitoring committee on privatization issues. This law completely deprives you of the Supreme Council of your constitutional functions. And this law can be challenged in the Constitutional Court. I call on the people's deputies not to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u85	Thank you. I would like to vote on the adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights of the draft Law on Recognition in a way that has become invalid, the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized (registration No. 1054/1). People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:05:32]] For the 250. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been proposed a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the introduction of medium-term development planning and maintenance of the roadways of general use (registration number 1064). It is suggested that the above - mentioned bill be considered by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:06:17]] For 230 Decision taken. The report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kubrakov Aleksandro Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u86	Good afternoon, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich, distinguished national deputies! Your attention is given to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on Medium-term Development Planning and Maintaining Roadways of General Use. The bill is defined as urgent by the President of Ukraine. The project is aimed at ensuring the implementation of medium and long - term obligations under contracts for construction, reconstruction, capital and medium - time repairs of public and local road traffic. The bill is systematically related to Bill 1041, which we already adopted as a basis two weeks ago. The essence of the bill is the following. Complementing the Ukrainian Budget Code with the new term "medium-term commitment under the standard contracts for construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of motor vehicles". A list of construction, reconstruction, capital, and current average road repairs for the general use of state-of-the-art public roads, specifying the size of the budget and the financial provision of such facilities, is provided. It is granted the right of budget administrators to make budgetary commitments and to make payments on medium-term obligations networks under typical contracts for the construction, reconstruction, repair, and maintenance of automobiles. So the adoption of the bill will allow for medium-term budget planning of construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of public and local roadways, will promote competition in the market and output of new players, including foreign players. This will result in a higher quality of roads and an increase in the amount of work done. Please support the adoption of this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u87	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. The report is given to the Head of the Budget Committee. Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Yury Mihajlovich. Yuri Mikhailovich, let's do it a little faster if we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u88	Good afternoon, fellow dignitaries, Dmitri Alexanderovich! The Committee on Budget Issues at its October 1st meeting considered the amended Law 1064 on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on Medium-term Development Planning and Maintaining the Roadways of General Use, as defined by the President, as an urgent matter. During the drafting of the bill, the committee and the authors agreed to supplement its position with the requirements for the formation and selection of items at the expense of the fund in accordance with the State’s development programme and on competitive principles by specially designed commissions. And also, given the requirements of law-making technology, make the necessary technical and legal clarifications to the bill. The committee accordingly supported the proposal to settle the issues mentioned. As a result of the review, the committee adopted the following decision: to recommend Bill 1064 to the Supreme Council on the basis of the first reading, and generally as a law, taking into account the proposals made in the Committee’s letter. Appropriately, the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, should, in the drafting of the relevant law, impose the necessary editorial and technical legal remedies relating to the said decision of the committee. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u89	Thank you. Colleagues, please sign up for two for two against factions. The "Slut of the People" Party, Pavluk Maxim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u90	Please pass the word to Igor Vasilev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u91	Again, who's the word?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u92	Igory Vasileva.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u93	Put it in the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u94	We've already passed it on. Dear colleagues, in fact, Bill 1064 is long overdue for business because. What Is It? We're going to be able to move on to midterm planning. Any large infrastructure object, the more expensive it is, is not implemented in one year. We have hundreds of long - term objects in Ukraine. What does he give us? We'll avoid rising prices first. Secondly, we're giving the development of competition, so we're lowering prices for these same jobs. And the last. We're going to be able to change the disgraceful situation with the division of roads that happened once, for example, in Terenopolska by 40 meters, and we're finally going to plan whole large objects on large lines. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u95	The word is given by Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u96	Dear Mr. Golovo, first of all, I would like to point out that Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich is joining the "For the Future" group, so I would like to talk about the "For the Future" group. As for Law 1064. An important and good bill on medium-term planning. But the Future Group will support this bill, vote on the basis of the hope that we will be able to convince by making our amendments, because certain parameters need to be harmonized in this bill, which concerns who will approve the list of local roads that are planned for repair or construction in the next three years. Thus, the law clearly states that the central authority of the executive branch agrees on the list of roads and approves the state roads and is omitted on the local roads. That's the first question. And there are also a few questions about the work and approval of the programs themselves as a central program and regional programs in places. So once again, we're going to vote, the Group "For the future will vote on the basis and we'll prepare amendments to the bill. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u97	Thank you. Showtime's up. Who? Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, a minute of motivation and voting. Something's not written down, I guess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u98	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, a bill designed to introduce medium - term planning in the construction of important infrastructure objects that are roads is the right course. And Fatherland will support such a bill. At the same time, I would like to point out that in preparing for the second reading, we must have parliamentary control over how the road fund costs will be spent on road construction, because the issue of parliamentary control is in a direction such as the construction of public and local roads, so that corruption and corruption can be avoided in reconstruction and capital repairs and road construction. We support the first reading. And I would ask that colleagues also look closely at the work done on the budget committee in preparing this bill for their first reading. They are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u99	Let me finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u100	They are subject to mandatory parliamentary confirmation, and they must be part of a bill that will be voted on as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. National deputies, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the basis of the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights to amend the Ukrainian Budget Code on Medium-term Development Planning and Maintenance of Road Traffic. Please take your seats, national deputies. Colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Please support and vote. [[17:15:43]] For 305 Against 0, hold on to 10. Decision taken. Show the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" is 220, "The Opposition Platform for Life" is 10, "European Solidarity" is 18, "The Fatherhood" is 15, "For the Future" is 14, "The Voice" is 13, "the Non-Factional" is 15. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Law on the Bureau of Financial Investigation (registrations: 1208, 1208-1, 1208-2, alternative). The report is given to the head of the Committee on Financial, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, Bill 1208 and alternatives are proposed for your consideration. This bill on the Bureau of Financial Investigation. A very important bill. The bill that we're introducing in accordance with the "Serial of the People" programme, a bill that we've talked about for a long time and discussed with the electorate and with all the experts and society. It's about getting us to eventually eliminate the Tax Police, so we can finally take over the Ministry of Internal Affairs' mandate to investigate public finances crimes, and so we took these powers to the Ukrainian Security Service. It is proposed to create a new body to investigate all these crimes, and businesses will deal with only one organ accordingly. This body is empowered according to the legislative initiative we have proposed to investigate public finances crimes. You and I are changing the criminality of this bill, and there's a list of them in the relevant bill. You and I form the structure of this body, and we regulate its activity, and we give it the necessary authority. I ask you, according to the committee, there was also a bill that I passed as a national MP, and there were alternative bills under consideration. We've looked at them on the committee and we're proposing to support Bill 1208-2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u103	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Nina Petrovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u104	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, Your Honor, your colleagues! In fact, we've just been told that we're finally eliminating the Tax Police. But that's not the main objective of the changes we've been planning and planning with you right now. So I would like to present my alternative bill, which the copyright team has also been working on for a long time, because the creation of a new law enforcement authority, based on the fact that such new bodies have already been created in the country, everyone has expected them to be effective, everyone has even been worried about the creation of a new bureau or financial investigation service, or as we call it, the Financial Bureau. Ukraine's security. So first of all, what do we want to do? If we really want to just transfer the Tax Police from the State Fiscal Service subordination to the Ministry of Finance, I have a question: what will change what will happen in this service? Even if you're creating a new competition, you're getting new ones. With the new demands of the people, what will really change? Nothing will change. Because it's the main thing that we had to work on in order to raise such a profound question -- the creation of a new law enforcement body -- today in the hall. Please tell me, at this time, when we were working on this bill, we had expert discussions on various communication sites, not just in Ukraine. We and our draft law were in the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Attorney-General's Office, the national police, anti-corruption, customs, tax authorities of ministries and the professional committees of parliaments of European countries and the United States. We've also been to OLAF, Europe, and SARIN, and we've had many meetings in Ukraine with scientists, with experts, with people who are concerned with the protection of taxpayers in the field of tax legislation. So the NBFB project itself is built, most importantly, on the implementation of Ukraine's modern model of law enforcement. And this is a modern model that provides for the incorporation of intelligence, analytic function into the overall law enforcement mission, which is used by virtually all European countries and the United States. Instead, the bill, supported by the committee, is based on a traditional model of law enforcement, which remains a standard style of law enforcement. There is no way that we can talk about how the proposed committee recommended by the bill committee deals with the solution to the problem of pressure on business. Tell me, please, there are, there are, there are, there are three approaches, they are interdependent in order to remove this problem, to remove the pressure on business -- that is, to amend the special laws on BSPs, on the National Police, to remove the function of combating economic crimes in these structures, to amend the Tax Code with really dealing with the elimination of the tax police. But the goal of such a merger is to introduce a new methodology for assessing the risks and risks of economic processes combined with the investigation process. The pressure on business can only be removed by defining the exclusive subordination of the new body, the exclusive subordination, the definition of clear deadlines for the procurator to determine whether the new body is subject to investigation in the case of receipt of applications and reports of crime by another law enforcement authority. This is not regulated in the BFR Bill, but is regulated in the NBF Bill. What? It's funny to just read what's proposed in the basic before the bill is adopted. Because we were just looking at the changes to NAZC and talking about the fact that the organ hadn't worked for three years because we haven't been able to do an automatic verification of the declarations. Why didn't you make it? Because there was no access to the information bases required for automatic verification. We're going to play and talk again, and let's do this one. The basic bill defines a small list of information that will be available to the new service and the rest by individual contracts with the executive authorities. This will make it absolutely impossible, just as the work and the new body are busy, as it has been towed into NAZK for three years. These standards were feared before. But now they realize that if we're talking about the analytic component, it's a purely analysis of all the new possibilities of all the information that can and is being created in Ukraine. I very much ask you to pay further attention to the independence of the new law enforcement agency, as we have it. Subordination to the Ministry of Finance, Minister of Finance. What you wrote about the fact that there is no right to give specific direction to the BFR on individual criminal investigations and cases is fiction, because a person who is appointed to the minister of finance will, in any case, listen and respond to all the desires that are there. Independence, we need to ensure that this body is truly independent. And what we've proposed in the NBFB Act is, indeed, the body that will be in the Cabinet of Ministers, but which will be accountable to the Supreme Council and society, is the body that is to be created in our country. You said you couldn't subdue the President so that this body would be accountable, even a ceremonial function could not be performed by the President. We agreed. And in the alternative bill, since we still have the Constitutional Court's decision, we've got this connection with the President and we're talking about the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, the most important thing is to investigate tax crimes. You know that the biggest business issue is the acts of verification that the payers follow in all stages of the prosecution: the administrative charge, the prosecution. At this time, criminal conduct is being investigated. The crime has not yet been proven, but the investigation is already under way, and with approaches such as those adopted in Ukraine, the removal of documents, the removal of all technology. So I think the most important thing that kept up the business, and I also insist on it, is to amend article 212 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. It cannot be defined by defaulting on financial liabilities or by actual non-indemnity on a budget that is still uncoordinated. You were afraid to approach this norm, but if most businesses can't read it all out and figure it out, from what I started out of, the new model of the law enforcement agency, that's what everybody understands. If the same principle of guilt persists in the complex acts of verification, we do not change anything, nothing. That's exactly what we're transferring the chairs from the DFS subordination of the tax militia into the Ministry of Finance, and nothing changes anymore. I ask you, no matter what, to support Bill 1208-1. Most of you, those who are professionals, have been attending many large meetings for all three years, and we have analyzed everything, every article to be exact. That's when everyone demanded that you amend the Ukrainian Security Service and National Police Act. Here they're introduced, there's no basic law on it. How long will this go on? We're lying to people again. So I think that creation, if we're not ready for this kind of action, if we have to talk about it, let's put off a little bit of this moment. But create a really new law enforcement body based on a new model of activity. Therefore, I urge you to support or defer consideration of the matter in general for later periods.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u105	Okay. Thank you. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy, Vasilevska-Smagluk Olga Mikhailovna. Olga Mikhailna, if you can, a little bit shorter, doesn't take all 10 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u106	Anything for you, Mr. Speaker. Honorable Presidium, Your Honor, I'd like to brief you on the benefits of our bill, developed jointly with Denis Monastirski. This is Bill 1208-2. And the creation of a financial investigation service has long matured as a continuation of the reform of the DFS and the division into service and law enforcement functions. Having passed this bill in the first reading, you and I, colleagues, will begin the creation of a new single body that will investigate and expose public finances crimes. The idea of the bureau is not to put pressure on business, but to fight crime and tax evasion in particular when taxes and customs are already powerless and even mediation is not helping to resolve these disputes. Search and exit companies will be preceded by analytical work on reports and transactions, and this will happen, dear colleagues, I emphasize, remotely. I don't think any of you have any doubt that this body should have been created with you long ago. He will have a clear record, and in order not to forget this organ, we do not include petty crimes. The FBI will be carrying out search-and-research activities, but it will not contact business until criminal conduct is breached. As far as subordination is concerned. The world’s best practices say that similar services should be created under the Ministry of Finance or under the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We went with you to a British or French model, including the Ministry of Finance. This is the requirement of the International Monetary Fund, as set out in the memorandum. During the drafting of our 1208-2 bill, we worked closely with the IT Ministry to provide the future body with the best advanced information and analysis technologies. The Bureau of Financial Investigation will have nothing to do with the Department of Economic Protection and the tax police. Both must go into oblivion. It's going to be an elite body that's going to do analytic and search-and-seeking work. He will investigate crimes in the economic sphere and crimes that cause damage to the state on a particularly large scale. I am grateful for being involved in this. to his co-author Dennis Monastery, as well as his team of authors: Andrey Olefirenka and Eugene Yenin. Please support this bill with a green button.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u107	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, if they will. Please sign up for the factions and the MPs. Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, "The Fatherland" faction. Belkova. Belkova Olga Valentinovna, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, the chairman of the committee stressed that today we are adopting a very important bill, and here I fully agree with it. Indeed, politicians have very often promised us that the function of the tax service and the law enforcement function will be, indeed, professionally divided, and we will see the modern-day Bureau of Financial Investigation. At the same time, everyone, when they promise it, all talk about making business easier. But today, the "Fatherland" faction has warnings and doubts that in such an order, by the way, in all three bills, this independence and profession are guaranteed. First of all, everyone expects financial investigation functions to be taken from other bodies that are currently in the BPO, the police and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And if you were to participate in the working groups, you would see how the experts who work in these bodies argue with each other. It is very important for the second reading to be written in such a way that no one has any doubts about the subject, the function, the cooperation. It's very important. Second, look who's going there and how. It's actually a puppet organ from the minister of finance. The minister wants to – appoints a contest, doesn't want to – doesn't have a competition. The law cannot be formulated like that. The minister is obliged to appoint a contest. In fact, the questionable part is that it defines the order of the minister himself. We think that Kabmin is a more appropriate approach. The manager may be released, in fact, at the appointment of the minister. So what is political independence? If he did the right thing, he'd leave you, if he didn't make the wrong decision, they'd fire you. Please tell them what kind of professionals we're going to hire with you. Didn't you write them what they're going to pay for? You think today this office is going to have 5, 7, 10 thousand dollars to work with professionals who are allowed to do police work and they're going to do it right? For your second reading, Mrs. Olga, as your author, please write down how these workers will be financially provided. I point out that there is absolutely no procedural independence. It is not clear how this body will work with others. Thirdly, the Bureau is planning to give a number of very serious powers: both to the use of grenades and to use, for example, bank secrecy. In three days, the bank, regardless of the case, has to provide all the information on deposits, cash movements, and so forth. Dear colleagues, we have a password. We'd like to create a liberal smartphone state. But as I read this bill today, I'm afraid we're going to create another monster and create a police state. I'm warning you. And I'm going to join this group to make sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u109	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u110	Ten seconds. I'll tell you what. We support, but with warnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u111	Thank you. The word for the report is given to Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u112	Thank you, Your Honor, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, we are now looking at essentially a bill on the creation of another law enforcement body in Ukraine. There have been many conversations in recent years, we have heard, especially in the last five to seven years, that there will be quick, effectively eliminated units of economic security services in Ukraine, the IMF and others, who are now essentially going through business pockets, businesses, twisting people's hands and parasiticizing the fact that business is tormented, rooted and earning money, and they just come in and, as the people say, heal. Now we're being asked to create another structure that will be involved in financial investigations. This must be the right story if we did all the things we were talking about. Let's eliminate these economic subunits of the KBB that the whole country has been talking about for a long time and that everyone knows what they're doing, let's finally eliminate the economic subunits of the IMF that have been doing their own functions, and then we can quietly form this new fiscal body. There's still a denial of what plan. Who will create these organs? To whom will it be subordinated? It was absolutely right here that my colleagues said, if it was again a manual structure under the auspices of the Cabinet of Ministers, directly subordinated to the Minister of Finance, it would again be a punitive machine in terms of business and enterprise. So we're still going to suggest that we stick around now, that we get along in a complex way. Let's get rid of those units that have long been referred to as "K," the M.E.S. and so on, in the economic structure, we're working out this bill so that there's not just 14 articles on the Criminal Code that are going to happen. an additional subordination to the DFD, and in fact this will be an opportunity for all, even minor issues, to do this Bureau of Financial Investigation. And that means they'll be able to go to any enterprise, to any enterprise, to any enterprise, and essentially re-do what just a bunch of organs did before. But this is a monster, a monster in the hands of the state. Therefore, we do propose that this bill be revised. There are valid comments from our colleagues, there's an alternative bill 1208-1, which Mrs. Yuzanin proposed, it's perfectly logical, there's a lot of intelligent things. Unite these bills, make one normal and vote. But after we get rid of this whole gang that's parasitizing on the state today, on government bodies. They earn money today and live better than those entrepreneurs and businesses that actually make money in Ukraine form budgets and provide taxes. That's the only logical thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u113	Thank you. The word is given by Germany to Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I'd like to ask you to work on the foundations of our Constitution of Ukraine and remind you of article 32, and remind you of article 17. 17th puts national and economic security on the relevant authorities to which, by the way, the Ukrainian Security Service. It's about what we're talking about here in the first place. I'll tell you, there's an attempt to cross over and convert into one hand all the financial flows, all the financial flows, I'm going to make this clear. The other one. I'd like to make it clear that we knew and remembered that it was quite recently when the guilt brothers came into power, they created tax services, and when they didn't get to sit there in the vinyl government, they shared customs, tax services and everything. They were looking for access to these cash flows. What do we see today? Look at what Mrs. Nina Jujanin said. What's wrong with her? So this conglomerate that's preparing to create, it's not defined at the constitutional level. I'd like to say that all these weapons formations have to be marked here. No one talks about it and is silently silenced, but the Constitution prohibits their creation except through law. And that means there should be in the Constitution. Next. Here you've heard of people's concern that this is essentially what we're going to do with the police state. So what I'm saying is that we already have a police state. Look at the forces thrown into the legislative arrangement to discriminate against the MPs. I want to tell you that only eight fundamental norms of the Constitution change to discriminate against the people's deputies and minimize their participation in power. And the last thing I'd like to say. Everything there is to do with search, correspondence, removals. Ladies and gentlemen, read 32nd. This is not allowed unless the Constitution provides for military or extraordinary conditions. Do not mistreat people. I would like to see that this anxiety does not cause such harm to people. God forbid. We've been through this before.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the Monastery Denis Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u116	Dear colleagues! Today you and I are considering a very important bill. In the first reading, I emphasize. Which it's been about for many, many years. This is about creating a single body to investigate crimes against public finances. This room has been discussing this idea for more than a year, but unfortunately it has not found any support and understanding. And to this day we have the only unique opportunity to unite and, indeed, to draft a quality bill and to create this only organ. The way to create this organ is very large. Today, all other law enforcement agencies involved in investigating economic crimes against the State are discredited. Today, these bodies have become a tool of illegal pressure on business, influence on ordinary entrepreneurs, and large businesses. We have the opportunity in this room in a normal procedure, not in the area of concern, but in a calm, consistent work to make such a bill work so that this body works clearly, in a non-conflict manner and meets all the requirements of the Constitution and the laws in force. Let's face it, when previous bodies, such as the State Bureau of Investigation, were created, there were political standards that did not fit the Constitution of the day. And let's say that the observations that today are about the lack of autonomy of this body on the possibility of impact of this organ, let's say, friends, let's start working in accordance with the Constitution. And I'm here to support the previous speaker that, first of all, all of the norms, all of the principles of this body's work have to be in line with him, let's create such a single organ. In addition, the creation of this body launches the irreversibility of another super-important reform, the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service, which has been under way for many years, since the creation of this body will make it inevitable to reform the Ukrainian Security Service, which is also being discussed in this room. So I ask you to support a bill developed jointly by two committees and to work on it together for the second reading. All the possibilities will be for that, I think we'll look at all the revisions and make a really, really perfect bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u117	Thank you. The word is given to Jurchino Jaroslav Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u118	Thank you very much, colleagues. Transparency International, an international organization that constantly manages the level of influence, measuring the level of impact of corruption on national processes in various countries, is constantly systematically putting Ukraine at the heart of this rating. Why? Because the relationship between the state and business in Ukraine is a horror. And it's a constant sphere where there's extremely high levels of corruption. Transparency International Ukraine, an organization where I worked before becoming a national deputy, which has actually worked for a long time and for the reform of the National Anti-Corruption Agency, recommended in cooperation with business that this relationship should be relaunched, particularly by creating the State Bureau of Financial Investigations, which we are discussing today. So it's a very important initiative and it's very important not to forget the main sequence in this process. First, take away the inherent economic functions of the law enforcement agencies that they're going to waste on business. And on this basis, create a new structure that will be the only one that will have the authority to investigate financial institutions. As we examine competing bills, our faction colleagues and I are convinced that this is best done by the proposed alternative bill bearing the badge 2. It doesn't solve these issues, but it does allow these issues to be solved because it covers these spheres. And despite this, this bill also needs adequate work. Because with the adoption of this bill, there's no "K" department going anywhere, which is still something, despite the promise, especially the President, despite the change in the management of the U.S.S.A., it's still a nightmare business. And other structures that have the authority of economical investigations, and they're looking for mechanisms to push on business, are already saying a lot. So, colleagues, we take it as a base, we consolidate positive recommendations for alternatives. Our political faction will vote in favour of an alternative bill with a badge 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u119	Thank you. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, first of all, thank you for your active discussion. But I understand that such important things have to be done with the involvement of experts and experts. We're very much at this point saying such words are far from what's written in the draft law. We're talking about one of our visions, and it's actually coming true in a completely different way, and you can't see it. So I don't think any of the bills can be decided today. You don't want to support an alternative with badge 2, work on your first reading, you have your hands now open and you have the possibility. You said it would be the only organ, please tell me which articles, paragraphs, and sentences define the only body. There's nothing defined. There are no amendments to the BAF Act. There's no change in the pressure on business. It's all out loud, analytics, some analytics. Dear colleagues, you've been an expert and you've gone to most of the working groups where we've discussed such a difficult and challenging process for society. I want to tell you that analytics are not the analytics we're used to. Each body of executives has a certain kind of analysis, a certain approach. If we're talking about analytics, it's another system of law enforcement that we just have to implement into Ukrainian legislation. To do that, we need to know and create an analytical detective institute, give it the status of the document that these analysts will provide. Because everything goes differently, any information is the basis for conducting, for registering, for investigating. And we're saying that two-thirds should be built on analytical work and, above all, not to catch up on economics, but to warn them that systems that are created, including as a result of our short-term Ukrainian legislation, should be eliminated so that analysts can make recommendations to executive authorities that are required to take account of their work. We need to make and establish such a reality, that is, legislation that will already take away those crimes in the economic sphere that we create. So I'm asking you to step down and make a joint, right bill from the start, not go through the amendments you're talking about, because it doesn't fit what you're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, I'd like to go to the vote and finish the discussion if there's no objection in the room. You don't? Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a bill that was supported by the committee. I'm betting on a draft law on the Bureau of Financial Investigation (1208-2) to adopt it as a basis. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:52:37]] For 270. Against 14, hold on to 38. Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 235, "Response Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 11, "For the Future" – 2, "Voice" – 17, "non-factional" – 5. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there has been a call to the fore. "As the initiator of the Ukrainian Supreme Council draft Youth Act (Registration No. 2076 of 5 September 2019) on the basis of Article 104 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please recall the bill for further work." The word is given to the national deputy Krulk Ivan Ivanovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u122	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear fellow members of the national parliament, on behalf of the initiators of this bill under number 2076, is a bill on youth. There is a proposal to vote in favour of his response to the drafting and adoption of a consolidated bill by all the parliamentary factions in this room. What's more, it's a bill that will change the idea of youth policy, which will clearly identify and enable young people to effectively implement and develop, which will create a special fund to support youth initiatives and be filled from various sources, including non-budgetary ones. We believe that such a bill is essential to Ukrainian youth and that it should be considered in the Supreme Council in an immediate manner. But in order to make a consolidated amended bill, it takes 226 votes at a minimum to vote in favour. And we're going to introduce a joint bill on an operational basis. Thank you for being able to do this today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u123	Thank you, Ivan, Ivanovich. I'll bet on the vote on the above-mentioned proposal. Please support and vote. [[17:55:01]] For 292 Against six, holding on to three. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the final bill for today. You have been given a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2019, registration numbers 2039, 2039-1 is an alternative. I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:55:38]] For 253 Against 4, hold on to 38. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kubrakovo Alexander Mikolaiovich. And I'm going to continue the session for 15 minutes, but let's finish what we're going to consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u124	Good afternoon, again. Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! Bill No. 2039 provides for the redistribution of expenditure between the budget programmes of the State Budget Special Fund, the source of which is the State Road Fund. What are we talking about? We're redistributing the budget from two programs that aren't going to be used this year to another program that's going to make 100 percent use of the funds. This is the road of Zaporozhye – Mariupol, the so - called road of life that will be completed, which will be completed within two weeks. Therefore, I ask you to support and vote on the basis and in general today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u125	Thank you. The word is given for a report to the head of the budget subcommittee, the Committee on Budget Issues of the Disturbed Forest Valentinovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u126	Honourable Dmitry Alexanderovich, honourable members of the presidency, national deputies and invitees, the Committee on Budget Affairs at its meeting on September 18th considered Bill 2039 and an alternative Bill 2039-1. Bill No. 2039 provides for the redistribution of expenditure between the budget programmes of the State Budget Special Fund, the source of which is the State Road Fund. It is proposed to increase such costs for the development of the network and maintenance of public roads by 1.2 billion dollars on account of the reduction in the condition of the Odessa road by 976.5 million dollars and the development of public roads along the “north round trip” route of 190 million dollars. The proposed changes will allow the general financial resource to be increased for the development of state-of-the-art roads, and their distribution according to the legislative requirements should be carried out by the government by submitting the "Staff" to take account of their priority and current status. Instead, the alternative bill 2039-1 proposed the cost savings that arose after the entry into force of the Odessa-Rani road, to target public roads in the Odessa region. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus, as well as the Ministry of Finance, is inclined to support Bill No. 2039. In view of the foregoing, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council draft Law No. 2039 to the Supreme Council, on the basis of article 110 of the Supreme Council Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u127	Thank you, Lesa Valentine's Day. If you don't mind, let's move on to. Please sign up for factions: two in, two in. The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u128	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy, Sparky Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u129	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u130	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" at its meeting decided to support an alternative bill 2039 with the designation 1 on amending the Ukrainian Law "On Ukraine's State Budget for 2019" on improving road conditions in the Odessa region. We think that taking this money off the road in Odessa is totally unfair because this money was made by the Odessa area as a result of a customs experiment, including in the previous year, when it worked, and this year. We believe that taking money in the Odessa region from practically finished objects and from those still in need of public funding is totally unfair in terms of such an important region, the strategic region of Ukraine as the Odessa region. This is the largest region of our nation and the quality of roads in the Odessa region, well, at a pretty low level. I very much ask a colleague from the People's Servant, and there and there the authors of these bills, MPs from the People's Servant, to go back to the consideration of the alternative bill, because this is absolutely, once again, I stress, unfairly to the Odessa region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u131	Thank you. The word is given to Zaslavi Jury Ivanovich, faction of "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u132	Please pass the word to Alexander Kubrakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u133	Alexander Kubrakov is given the word, please, from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u134	I'd like to comment on the previous speech. This is not about the roads of the Odessa region. It's only about the Odessa-Ren route," which was built up, and it was completely opened this year. There's no debt. It's completely closed. All the services of all subcontractors are paid. Therefore, there is no need to manipulate the term Odessa, not Odessa. The language comes exclusively from a separate budget program that was foreseen on the Odessa - Rennie route. But it's already finished and it's open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u135	Thank you. Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u136	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would like everyone to listen very carefully, and our viewers especially to why we are voting on this bill right now. And we're voting because in the 2019 budget that voted last year, and for which logically "Paternity" didn't vote because it was corrupt, it was put on the important road of Odessa, the money to finish construction. And thank God, this important road of Odessa is built. But it was just an accident that an additional billion were put there. So, sorry for the non-parliamentary word, they made the clue so that, in manual mode, they would have the ability to decimate these costs. So, I think it's absolutely right, now that there's a bill, this billion needs to be taken away. We need to finance roads where construction is done, where there is debt to contractors, and where roads are truly strategic. So I ask that this bill be voted on. One. And the others. I'm also paying attention to the chief executive of the Krautodore funds, and to all of us parliamentarians. Indeed, while working on the government budget, be very careful not to see any such omens in the state budget. There is a road that needs funding – we need to support it. But don't spend billions. Because we've seen how some of the programs have been set up here for billions of dollars already last year. This negative practice must be abandoned. And this bill is worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u137	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. Dubnievich Jaroslav Vasilovich, a minute of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u138	Dear Mr. Head, I would like to draw your attention once again: not to Dubnievich, but to Dubnevich and the Group "To the Future".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u139	Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, you, especially the "Serve of the People" faction, I congratulate you. All of your sounds that have to be open, transparent and systematic work, today's bill, we're going to confirm that's not the case at all. Because, yes, the important road of Mariupol is the Zaporozhye that had to be made. We are now confirming by our vote, and above all, you, the Honorable Servants of the People, that the road that was started was carried out by a towel, because a command was given to Ukraine to build this road immediately, and yet no funding was put on this road. And now we're adopting Law 2039, which is how we're taking down the funds that were saved on the way to Odessa-Rani and passing on to the road to Zaporozhye-Mariupol. Costs that were saved on the way to Odessa, Rennie.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u141	Thank you, Jaroslav Vasilovich. A moment of motive. Ten seconds. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u142	A lot of people don't explain. The Future Group supports this bill, and you have one piece.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u143	Thank you. 30 seconds, please turn on the Nebula microphone from motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u144	Thank you. I would like to point out, first of all, the desire to support this bill. And the committee accepted it by recommending it under number 2039 on the basis and in general, taking into account the proposals made in the Committee's letter-based committee and related to the proper drafting of the bill according to budgetary methodology. And a committee with the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Authority in drafting this law will make the necessary editorial and technical clarifications to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you'd like to take your seats, prepare for the vote, please. I'm betting on a vote to be adopted on the basis of the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights, a bill on the basis and in general. Dear colleagues, wait, there is a proposal to vote on the basis as a whole. Is there no objection? Then, honourable colleagues, I put to the vote for adoption as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Budget for 2019 (Registration No. 2039). Please support and vote. [[18:07:03]] For 275 Against - 9, held - 14. Show me the factions, please. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u146	Dear colleagues, we've been re-exposed by two MP factions, and they want it instead of a break. Well, they have that right. That's why we're here. But I'm reminding you that we only lasted 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u147	That's the last thing, after that, we're closing the session. Colleagues are speaking, and we're closing the meeting at night. Dear colleagues, will you be performing or can we close?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u148	Thanks for the show. I'll see you then.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u149	Who's speaking, respectable colleagues? Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u150	Dear colleagues, I'll take you a few more minutes after a difficult day. There was a simple proposal, like a nail, and it was appropriate, like a morning coffee, to listen to the President and his view of what was going on east with the occupation and reintegration, to listen to the Foreign Minister and the Chief of General Staff. We understand that because of some communication problems, they have not yet received our offer, and we will await their presentation, their explanations as soon as possible. We have no reason to believe that this is a mistrust or even more contempt for the higher legislature, and I hope that we will see all these dignitaries soon in the Supreme Council. But nevertheless, our faction considers it appropriate, and I hope that other factions will join us, to return to the source. The Supreme Council is the structure that forms the principles of internal and external politics. And in order for us not to have strange formulas that will interpret our reasoning in different places of the globe, we propose to create a temporary special commission that will develop the basis for a road map that will be followed by all officials and all public authorities during further steps of depopulation and reintegration. I hope you can support this idea. And we're going to form it into a draft regulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u151	Thank you, colleagues. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m1.u152	Dear colleagues, don't forget the card in the cardholders. Thank you.
