ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you that we're looking at a security and defense block. The following are the daily drafts of Laws 7549 and 7549-1. But before they could be considered, a statement from two factions came to the fore: A radical party and Fatherland. And I would like to invite you to the word of Láško Oleg, and then we will move on to the next law on security. Excuse me, first of all, registration. We didn't register. Please prepare for registration, colleagues, and please register for the evening session. Please. [[16:04:21]] There are 364 national deputies registered. I declare the evening planning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ukrainian Prime Minister Vladimir Groissman made a statement a few hours ago that if someone told him how to lower the cost of gas, he would definitely do so. Taking this opportunity, I ask Prime Minister Groysman to listen to our advice, which will give us a real opportunity to lower the price of gas, which means housing and utilities. First. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, please state the order in the matter of the salaries of the heads of state companies and government officials. Millions of Ukrainian pensioners, thanks to the policies of today’s authorities, receive a copy of their pensions. Instead, Naftogazu's head Kobolev receives 5 million dollars a month. Additionally, Kobolev made an illegal decision, and he and his deputies received a prize of $1 billion,400 million. I appeal to Prime Minister Groisman at the next government meeting to support our initiative and to take the decision of the government to oblige the head of Naftogazu Kobolev to return to the state budget 1 billion 400 million dollars of the prize they have illegally written down. This will allow the price of gas and tariffs for citizens to be reduced. And I'm also addressing the Prime Minister with a very simple question. You're telling the whole country that you've built a subsidy system that will protect every Ukrainian. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, please give an answer to the inhabitants of the town of Dove Ludmila Vasilini, whose apartment is 52 square meters away, she is a widow of the Chernobyl family, who has paid the utility bill for 4,000 500 dollars. Can you please tell me how a widow's apartment for 52 square feet to pay 4,500 for a utility station? Please give advice to the disabled and the group, residents of the town of Vyshrod of Valentina Aleksyivna, a widow of the Chernobyl family, who, for 53 square feet [53 sq m] of her apartment, received a bill for the utility station 4,500. Where do these people get 4,500 bucks, pay for the utility? I emphasize that neither the property nor the castle, in one apartment 52 square meters, in the other apartment 53 square meters. This is the price of Koboljev's billions prizes, and Ukrainians are paying for these billion prizes. I demand that President Poshenko, Prime Minister Groysman, put order in place, return the money stolen from the Ukrainians to the state budget, and resolve the issue of space wages and bonuses for government officials. Stop robbing Ukrainians! They go into each one’s pocket to fill up their offshores.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u3	So, colleagues, we move on to the next issue of the agenda: the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on military service (7549, 7549-1). Anyone who supports the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. [[16:08:14]] For-45 The decision is not made. We're going into full procedure. And I invite you to speak to Deputy Minister of Defense of Shevchuk Oleg Mikolaiovich. I'd like to invite you to speak before Act 7549, 7549-1, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has been drafted by the Ministry of Defence to improve legislation on military service in the Armed Forces. The project is designed to amend six laws of Ukraine: the Internal Service Statute, the Disciplinary Statute, the Garrison and Watchman Service Statute, the Structural Statute, the Military Duty and Military Service, the Military Order Service. The changes arrange for disciplinary powers of officials. The implementation of the project does not require additional spending on government budgets. Regarding the alternative bill (registration number 7549-1), I would like to inform you that the greeting "Glory to Ukraine! - A hero of fame!" has already been implemented in the Armed Forces, other military and law enforcement bodies in accordance with the Ukrainian Law (No. 2587) since October 4, 2018. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u5	Thank you, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Please remain in the rostrum. We are now considering the law in full procedure, so you could use more time to present your bill. But at the same time, we will now give more time to ask questions from the session room. I'm asking you 10 minutes for the questions we have. Please sign up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, no, it's from the deputies, of course. From the faction we have no questions now, there will be speeches later. Dear Mr. Vladislav, you know the Rules better than I do. We just had a very short presentation of the law, so we leave more time for questions. Taras Shepherd, your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u6	Your Honor, Oleg Mikolaiovich, I don't quite understand why you, as Deputy Minister, report this bill? I just can't remember if this direction is going to go directly to your jurisdiction? But before that, we were looking at a bill that changed the title of the flag, a sergeant in line with the rank of sergeant. In this bill, by fully upholding its logic, its necessity for acceptance, we write down the functions, the subordination of the military to our military commanders, keeping the rank of superiors, keeping the rank of flagmen, and so forth. So in the event that the previous law is passed after the committee's work, when this bill is passed, it will actually conflict with the law that we are now trying to bring, our military titles to the same NATO standards. Don't you think the bill would be worth withdrawing after all?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u7	Please, your answer. I'll just give you a separate question, Mr. Zuv. We have time now. Please turn on Taras Shepherd’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u8	So the proposal, actually, from you, from the Ministry of Defence, that we don't create any more coalitions in legislation, is to transpose this bill, maybe if we don't go back to the Ministry of Defence, directly into the National Security and Defence Committee walls. And along with you, with the Ministry, with the General Staff, work on such a law that it does not conflict with other laws and can work after its adoption. Because if we accept it, it needs to be changed immediately to bring military names to NATO standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u9	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u10	Thank you for asking. As for what you asked: the previous law, the draft law envisaged changes in military titles, the bill provided for post rights -- they didn't cancel.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u11	Thank you for your answer. Please give us the following question from our colleague, national deputy Eutushka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u12	Please pass the word to Alexandra Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u13	Please, two minutes, Mrs. Kugel. Yeah, two minutes, Mrs. Kugel, 'cause then she's got her question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u14	Thank you. Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. In support of the statement by the previous MP, my colleague at Self-Help, I would like to remind you that the project, which is 6,372 in detail, is almost repeating a lot. I confirm that in this bill you're predicting the abolition of such as the flag and the swordman, it cancels, that's it. But we're already signing. A signed bill, which we adopted in October, which introduces "Glory to Ukraine! - The hero of glory!', it's repeated as well. I mean, I would like to draw the Ministry's attention, unfortunately, using the question that now the war in Ukraine, that all MPs are very sensitive to every bill that you have in your department, you have to read them very carefully and prepare them very seriously. Because unfortunately, especially atolls, they're very impressed by what they've done if there's no government support, and in fact there's nothing. Secondly, yesterday we saw, and I'd like to hear your opinion from what we saw on TV yesterday, how the barracks that the President spoke so much about are being built, and we've shown across Ukraine that it's stolen money, and there's underdevelopment. How did you react, was there a conversation in the Ministry today about this money transfer and these constructions? Unfortunately, such bills on the responsibility of those who profit from war have not been seen in any of the bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u15	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u16	Thank you for asking. As for the greeting, "Glory to Ukraine! - The hero of glory!" Once again, this is proposed by registration number 7549-1. And the Ministry of Defense is proposing this rule not to be taken into account as it was. 7549-1 is not a developer of the Ministry of Defence. About construction. The Minister of Defense took steps to break the terms of the contract by the appropriate builders at the end of last year. With all the companies that did not make contractual commitments, including those shown on television yesterday, broken contracts, fined companies, filed lawsuits. The head of the south direction, who let down the job, was released in December of last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u17	Thank you. Will there be another question from Self-Help? Mr. Taras! It won't. You have also associated yourself with a respected colleague, Zuvaj. Mr. Shevchuk, thank you very much. Please return to your workplace. Colleagues, all had the opportunity to ask questions. I think so. I invite the author of the alternative bill 7549-1 of the People's MP Andria Illenka to introduce to us a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine (on military service). Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u18	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'm going to take a quick look at the essence of this bill, which, frankly, is not very clear why it's being presented as an alternative. In fact, it was an old proposal for Freedom back in 2014 to introduce "Glory to Ukraine" into the Ukrainian army! - The hero of glory!" And it's actually very late, but this decision was made by Parliament, in fact, Freedom was the first to initiate the issue. This is actually what this bill is about, which is essentially a decision that has already been made. So, of course, it's good that it's better late than never, but these things have been done. So at this point in time, it's actually this bill, it's no longer relevant in terms of today's legislation. But given that, I'd like to do it anyway, because this bill concerns our Armed Forces, I'd like to draw the attention of the entire Ukrainian society to the absolutely terrible facts that have been revealed as a result of the journalistic investigation that have been made throughout the country yesterday. Millions of Ukrainians have seen an investigation that gives concrete evidence that there is an organized criminal group that is actually tearing apart the army, Svinarczuk-Gladkowski, which is the direct environment of the President of Ukraine. And in fact, we haven't seen any action on the part of the law enforcement agencies today, no criminal conduct, it's absolutely unacceptable, they should be discovered immediately. We call, as volunteers, to the relevant authorities, to the Attorney General's Office, to the NABU, to the Ukrainian Security Service in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u19	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Thank you. I'm asking that we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u20	No, it's not. Wait, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u21	Thank you. I'm asking you to come back. You still have it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Please go back to discussing the bill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u22	We demand in connection with the law, because it concerns the army, and unfortunately, the theft also applies to the army, we demand that the law enforcement agencies start investigating immediately, and we demand that all the figures be detained immediately -- this is the direct responsibility of all law enforcement officials not to let them escape the country, because it is very likely. This will be their direct responsibility if this, God forbid, happens. And we have to realize that it's not just corruption, it's actually government betrayal, because it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u23	Thank you. Thank you, dear colleagues. I want to remind you, dear colleagues, I want to. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you now that we have statements from factions, from Ukrainian national deputies on any subject: on Tuesdays from factions, on Wednesdays from national deputies and on Fridays from national MPs. You still have eight minutes of your legal, honourable Mr. Andrew, please, on the subject of the bill. Please, Mr. Andrey, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u24	Madam Chairman, I'm surprised by the little bits of this attitude, because today the speeches were the same even during today's session, where the MPs have been discussing, including the issues that are relevant to society today. Somehow you won't let me finish. Well, we think that's absolutely part of the treason of the state. They have to be investigated immediately, and we're going to make sure that there's finally justice in Ukraine, and that finally whoever steals from the army has their hands cut off, as promised. If necessary, we can fulfill this promise as the President who made this promise.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please stay in the rostrum, Mr. Andrew. I'm asking you to sign up for three minutes. Colleagues, I have to remind as chairman of the Rules that in Parliament, of course, all Ukrainian national MPs have the full right to speak on these subjects, which are relevant, during the debates we have on Friday, during Wednesday's talks, during our statements by factions and groups on Tuesday. During the discussion of drafts and presentations, I ask you to abide by the Rules and to present exclusively either a bill or an amendment when it comes to amendments. Thank you for recording the question. Please, Mikhaylo Golovko, your question on the subject of the bill presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u26	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte. Dear friend Andrew, I fully support the thesis: that the army is now playing a significant role or a major role in the preservation of our state, and the facts that are, today, said to be, corruption in the armed forces of our state are unacceptable. I fully support the "Freedom" position -- that today we must bring everyone to justice, punish all persons involved in corruption, apprehend them immediately, appeal to the law enforcement agencies. If this is not done, we, as Freedom, will demand that they be held accountable, which allowed corruption to flee the country. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u27	Please answer the question. It was, I take it, a replica. Next question. Yuri Bereza. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u28	I don't. It's not a question, it's more connected. I fully support that the slogans that we have adopted at the legislative level are already working in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, all of our paramilitary units, including the police, including the Security Service. We gave tribute to our heroes who started the fight in the 20s of the last century, both during World War II and after World War II, defending Ukraine or fighting for Ukraine right during the liberation races. So I don't have any more questions. Still, I think we should look at it, I'm in charge of the Supreme Council. From me. This law has passed, it's already working. I realize there's a procedure, but I still don't have any questions for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u29	Thank you for reviewing the bill that we are currently considering. And the next question, please, Paul Kishkar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u30	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine I'm actually not as optimistic as Mr. Mikhailo Golko about taking responsibility, because I see the potential of our law enforcement agencies. Explain, my friend Andrew, what to do now to the people's deputies in the voting for these two bills. Because the relevance, as you rightly said, has been lost, the understanding that there are more pressing issues, including the corruption component in the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defense, is and is relevant. And the work of the interim commission of inquiry, which is now directed and working in Parliament to prevent such corruption in the future, is somehow politicized and turns into a more electoral process than just to overcome that corruption. What should national MPs do now when voting for these two bills? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u31	I would like to say that with regard to our bill there is one moment that is different from what is now. Because, according to today's current law of reference, which is among the military, the words "sir," "ma'am," "military," "military," in our own language, we then proposed the introduction of "Glory to Ukraine!" - A hero of fame!" The "friend" address. So this is the only difference. Well, basically, well, there's this question, but I agree with the idea that the basic idea of this bill, the main content of this bill, is now being implemented. Well, and in general, of course, we have to understand that an army is not just a group of armed people, it's a group of people who have an idea that they're protecting, and including in such symbols this idea, it's coming true. And those who try to do this during the war and engage in corruption in the army, that prison and shame must be, and this, I agree, today's law enforcement authorities, very much doubt that they can do this. But nothing, we have a chance now to make a major change in the situation in the country, I hope, then this will all be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u32	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Please return to your workplace. Dear colleagues, we are now able to discuss with you the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on military service (No. 7549). Yes, I'm sorry, we don't have a chance to discuss them yet. And now we have the floor for a report to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Committee to John Winnick. Mr. Ivan, please. And Mr. John presents the position of the committee regarding the two bills we are considering.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u33	You're asking me a question, too. Good evening. Colleagues, well, what's worse is that I predicted this morning that in connection with political strife, and in fact political agitation already in the presidential race, there are individual associate deputies who are running for office at the same time and who are still trying to work as a national deputy, but their candidacy for the presidency, unfortunately, makes it difficult for them to work properly in the session room, we failed the morning session today: only one of the four projects in the field of national security was voted on and only because it contains those positions that are effectively undermining the overall strategy of ideology, the promotion of individual candidates for the presidency of Ukraine. Well, of course, if we didn't support the permission of a foreign contingent and joint training with the Ukrainian Armed Forces in Ukraine, well, we would certainly get the stigma of a pro-Russian presidential campaign right away. Understandably, voices were found, and all who did not even traditionally attend found an opportunity to come into the session room and vote. But then we failed two projects: one -- we rejected, by the way, it's a question of military reform, it's a question of strengthening the U.S. Army institution, it's Bill 6372, which should actually be considered before we moved to 7549, which we're currently looking at. Because in the text of this law we are already using new military titles to introduce the previous ones that we have failed. Well, this makes it difficult for the committee to work, but the committee will certainly do its job as it needs to be done. The second question is what we are now, me. I have a feeling we're not going to find a system bill from the Cabinet of Ministers right now. Because those proposed changes to the Ukrainian Military Duty and Military Service Act, the military law enforcement service in the Armed Forces, which are called upon to strengthen discipline in the military and to improve, in particular, the mandate of commanders who are to apply appropriate disciplinary engagements and impose them on their subjects for the purpose of, again, strengthening the security of our state, we are about to fail. And the bill, which has 50-60 pages of text there, systematically worked over a long period of time, we simply find it rejected, and according to the Rules, then we won't be able to get back to it quickly. Unfortunately, that is what is happening in our session room. But I'm going to report this text from the committee. Indeed, some positions regarding greetings "Glory to Ukraine! - A hero of fame!" They're already accounted for. In a bill submitted by President Prašenk of Ukraine, he was granted immediate status, and we have reviewed and implemented it. At the same time, other positions on the need to address criminal offences, which are equally contained in this text, we cannot now consider because we have no votes on the one hand. On the other hand, we are still waiting for the President's signature of an appropriate legislative initiative already voted in this session room. But once again, returning that the main problem that today does not allow the effective work of the Ukrainian Parliament is political strife. And the Bihus.info Journalist Investigation ‘ We respect this information that must be evaluated.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u34	Dear Mr. John, I also ask you to speak on the subject of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u35	Well, let me comment, because my colleagues commented.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u36	Because then my double standards will leave our colleagues in the hall. Please, on the subject of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u37	We respect this investigation, but I think it was a formal excuse used by individual political forces to disrupt the morning session called for the settlement of national security and defence issues. So, colleagues, I ask you to support this bill as a basis, and I hope that we will still find and vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u38	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. I ask you very much to sign up for the question to the distinguished Mr. John. Please, National Deputy Barn Oleg, your question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u39	Oleg. I'm sorry. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm handing Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u40	Please, Mr. Kishkar, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u41	Mr. Ivan, you have a few questions. In fact, the smaller question concerns the bill, more about how the TSC will plan its work in order to prevent corruption in the future in the Ministry of Defence and in the Ukrainian Armed Forces? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u42	The TSK has a comprehensive mandate to investigate the thefts in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which have led to a decrease in defence. What should we do about the future? So we need to implement the National Security Act, and it clearly defines that Ukraine needs to create a central executive body that will implement national policy in the area of the defence and industrial complex and thus reorganise the Ucrobanprom concert, to subordinate state-owned enterprises to the regulatory authority and to stop the situation where the controlling entity combines its regulatory function, thereby creating corruption risks. There's no intrigue here. And the Security and Defence Committee has made a commitment by the end of this year to help resolve the issue. But I would like to remind you that this decision requires 226 votes from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I therefore hope for support because this is an important element of our integration in the implementation of NATO legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u43	Thank you. The following question, please, is also referred to Paul Kishkar, who is active today, in the discussion. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u44	Thank you, Mr. Mikolo. Mr. Ivan, you have a very specific question. We have 327 pages of the report of the Court of Auditors, which defines clear facts, clear criminal cases of theft at the Ministry of Defense. None of the criminal cases for these materials, including the secret part that contains and more than a thousand pages, are investigated by the Military Prosecutor's Office or any other prosecutor's office, any other law enforcement agency. How do we fight corruption in the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces if no criminal case is investigated? So the corrupter, sitting in his seat, calmed down by the law enforcement agencies, is doing his job. That's what I understand. Are we going to plant people for stealing the Armed Forces and the Defense Department? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u45	I want to remind my colleagues that our questions should be, according to the Rules, in relation to the law that we are considering, and this is the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the conduct of military service. Mr. Ivan, please. And again, Mr. Paul, I ask you to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u46	Well, you're actually informed of the content of the work of a temporary commission of inquiry, which you're also a member of. We covered a period of leadership of the Ministry of Defense by several defence ministers. In particular, Gretchen Anatoly Stepanovich, Yehanur, Yvashchenk, Ježel, Salamatin, and Lebedev. And I would like to remind you that there are already alleged suspicions: Lebedev and Salamatin have been suspected of committing a crime classified under the article "State Betrayal." Zaman's chief of staff got the same suspicion yesterday, the whole country knows about it. At the last meeting, Attorney General Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko informed the members of the commission that all the heads of the Ministry of Defence and the administration of the General Staff would be tested for their actions and decisions on the signs of crimes provided for in article 111 of "State Betrayal". And actually, Zamana, he's already tested and he's already suspected, he's even been arrested, so there's no intrigue here. It is also suspected that Yvashchenko is hiding in the Czech Republic. So, colleagues, we work. And believe the report of the accounting chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u47	30 seconds to complete, please. There's no need to finish. Please, National Deputy Germany. National deputy of Germany, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u48	Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u49	Can I ask you a question, please? This is what the Presidency calls for.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u50	I'd like to ask you a question like that. As far as I can tell, the draft law stipulates "safari" at the hands of the military. Please tell us on what grounds this law provides for the right of soldiers to use force. And the second. And the weapons, including the ones that pointed to hunting with poachers. You don't realize there's some kind of mess with the authors of this law. And the second. Read again, if I have understood this correctly, give an answer to the basis for this law, which regulates the matter of Law 6372.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u51	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u52	I understand that Medvedchuk's representatives in Parliament, the opposition bloc's representatives, "For Life," who call for peace in Putin's terms, will certainly advocate the fact that the Ukrainian soldier is disarmed, has neither the ability to use weapons nor the use of any legal order, and in your opinion there must be no military, because this will certainly simplify Putin's task, which you are now defending. We won't let that happen. The bill, called for the strengthening of discipline in the military, gives effective powers to the law enforcement service, the military law enforcement service, and gives them authority, including when apprehending offenders, the use of force and means. There is nothing surprising about this, and these questions need to be put before the Supreme Council. I would like to remind you that we are now looking at, not the law, as you put it, but the bill, the key word "project." It's a proposal that should be discussed, a balanced decision, a colleague, so let's work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u53	Thank you. You may return to your workplace, Mr. John. There will now be opportunity for factions from factions and now there will be the possibility of performances by Ukrainian national deputies. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the factions and the MPs. Please, from the Radical Party of Oleg Mosiyczuk, please, from the Radical Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u54	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party What cynicism must there be in the semi-empty room right now to consider bills that, as the chairman put it, are safe. What cynical barriers it takes to steal from an army in wartime, to trade in the Armed Forces, to arms, and so forth. This question is probably rhetorical, because it would now be the turn of the President's factions and the first to demand the creation of an inquiry committee on the facts that were published yesterday by investigative journalists. In a normal person's head, we don't believe what this could be, so that the Supreme Commander and his environment are involved in the facts that have been discussed in the investigation of journalists. That's why we're calling for an investigation, which is why we insist that in this story we put a dot in Parliament. Parliament must either confirm the charges or withdraw them. Because marauders are being shot in times of war.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u55	Thank you. I want to remind you of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u56	I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u57	Thank you, Your Honor, I'd like to remind you of the position of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and you've now been able to express your political position for two minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you, Mr. Mosiyczuk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u58	You're pleading guilty now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u59	Dear Mr. Mosiyczuk, I very much beg you not to scandalte. Dear Mr. Mosiyczuk, I very much ask you not to scandalize. Dear Mr. Mosiyczuk and my distinguished colleagues, I would like to remind all of you that we are now. It's very hard for me to yell at each other because you're going to win here. I'm asking you to take the floor right now and finish. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we still have speeches now from MPs and factions. Mr. Moseschuk has another minute of unfinished talk from his faction. I'm just reminding you of the rules of the Rules: we need to speak on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u60	The law currently under consideration concerns the Ukrainian army, the Ukrainian army, which is being looted by sailors during the war. And the fact that you broke up and didn't give me the floor as an associate of the nearest Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, you actually admitted the guilt and involvement of what was announced yesterday by the investigative journalists. I'm calling on the Peter Prashenko Block to immediately support the initiative to create a temporary commission of inquiry, if you want to drop these charges, otherwise you're pleading guilty. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u61	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I thank you all very much for not calling compliance with the rules a part of the murder of the Crucifixed Boys. Thank you very much. Please give the next speech, Sergey Sobolev, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u62	Sobolje, Fatherland. You know, I'd like to start with the words of the Blessed Saint who said one wise thing: "The main thing is not to rename, but the main thing is how it's going to be." So I think this bill that we're discussing right now is how no one else responds to it like that, and what's the point in renaming it. This is just one part of this bill. If we look at an alternative bill, if we look at even other parts of the bill, we'll see that these bills didn't just come out that way. It's a feeling that the authors seemed to know that the essence of the army, the Ukrainian army, should be changed by content, because what's been going on for these long four years, from 15 to 19, and it's only now announced by the mouth of the Attorney General, but by the mouth of the journalists, that's the meaning of the names that should be. I think the key here is this. You'll think about the meaning, can you imagine one army, that its commander-in-chief, that those responsible for supplying the army, will be in the aggressor countries buying weapons smuggling or details that don't match the certification that don't match the quality that the former, at eight times the price! In this bill, do we pay attention to renaming? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The key – which army is still being created – is what will happen next. Because when they call the name of a young man who, at the age of 22, thinks that he "grabbed God by the beard" who allows himself to carry equipment for half a billion dollars in just a year and thinks he'll be untouchable, like after that an armyman who needs to carry the service will be responsible for the security of this state when this young man is able to hide.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u63	Dear Mr. Sergey, I ask you to return to the subject of the bill. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u64	What are we talking about? . When did this young man hide behind the name of the Honorable Consul of Seychelles? Think about it: Junior Gladkowski is the Honorable Consul of Seychelles, who cannot be searched! Where everything needs to be hidden! So I think this law makes us go back to the key, whether there's a point, or whether there's just a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u65	Thank you, Your Honor. Once again, I urge all the Ukrainian national deputies to mention the rules of the Rules and not to put the presiding officer in an awkward position when the topic is "important and relevant", as they said, yes, but you do not follow the rules of the Rules. I remind you that we are now discussing a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine on military service. As for political evaluations and statements, on Wednesday we have half an hour of speeches by Ukrainian national deputies when every national MP has the full right to speak with a political assessment. Please, National Deputy Rudik, give me your word. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, allow me to go back to the subject that we are discussing right now, this is a specific Bill 7549 and 7549-1. In addition to the greeting questions, “Glory to Ukraine! - A hero's glory!"as has already been said here during the discussion, there are a number of legal norms that can be regarded as legal collations. Unfortunately, there is no time for this, although it is very important. Colleagues were already trying to say that. I'm going to go into article 22 of the Civil Service Statute of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which defines cases where military personnel are allowed to use the special means of physical influence and weapons personally or as part of the unit, the term "several crime" is proposed to be replaced by the term "criminal offence". What's the problem? And the problem is that criminal offences are even smaller in their status, such as criminal offences. This has already been said -- hunting, unfortunately, it's true, if we take this option, it means that a commander of our special unit or not even a special unit can detain a person, apply force to him, and that way a person will be punished disproportionately for the crime he committed. There are still a number of clauses in this project that can be discussed, but from a legal point of view. For example, it's a criminal offence of a corrupt nature, it's a definition, but there's no such thing in this law, an active statute. If we accept this standard, it won't work. I'm not saying that there's just no people in the room to vote for it. So I'm asking you, colleagues, to send this bill to the developer, it's out of time or it can't be accepted, I think. And I know what I'm talking about, because I'm an active contractor of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Regarding the subject of abuse and corruption. Of course, we have to fight this. We have the NABU, let it give legal conclusions, invite the Sitnik here, let him say everything he thinks and does not think, he has sufficient arguments and responsibilities to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u67	Thank you. Colleagues, before I give my word to the next speaker -- Mr. Yuri, one second -- I want to take another message, colleagues. Attention, please! According to the law, anyone who makes a statement can speak on the subject of a bill, otherwise the chairman of the session is not only entitled but is obliged to interrupt. And, colleagues, I want us to mention today what was agreed in this room. Going out to the rostrum and calling criminals criminals where there is no court decision is unfair and illegal. When the boys tried to convict, convict one of you, I didn't vote because I said, "Court! And then there could be any charges." For that there are competent authorities that we have created. And a bullet, SAP. We have created these competent authorities to determine who they are and who they are not a criminal. When we use the Supreme Council rostrum when we're considering drafts to engage in electoral propaganda and the destruction of opponents, it's wrong, it's illegal, colleagues. That's why I'm stressing this: speaking on the subject of the bill. Regardless of factions, regardless of political preferences, we're going to turn off the microphone when the performance is not on the subject that is currently being considered in the hall. Besides, colleagues, I have a request for you. I've been approached by about five or seven deputies just now. We've got two laws in place, the State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2019. This is a law that provides funding for local budgets for those communities that have failed to hold elections. I have a great request, colleagues, after this law has been completed, to gather together so that we can accept this Law on the State Budget of Ukraine, which provides for the financing of local communities outside politics. I'm asking you to analyze this law, please look at it so that if we have the potential, we can look at it today. This is my message so you can analyze it, but the decision will normally be taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. May I have the address from the People's Front of Ukraine, Yuri Berezu, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! I support my colleagues who spoke only in the part where they say that there are quite few deputies in the room and it is quite difficult to vote for important laws. I'm a soldier who's been through and started my service since the Soviet Union, and I didn't just finish military school when they're talking about the insignificance of the laws that regulate today's relations and relations in the Ukrainian army, and I'm stressing today's true Ukrainian army, because unfortunately, after the 91st, we've had huge military connections, regiments, divisional brigades, even armies, but they weren't actually Ukrainian. And as he showed in the 14th year, when we had to protect the Ukrainian Crimea, where we had to say our word to the Ukrainian unit, we had no one to protect the Crimea. We had no one to protect the Crimean Tatars. A lot can be said: There were, there were no Ukrainian parts. But I know clearly, unfortunately, they thought they were followers of some nonexistent Soviet army. On February 23rd, they celebrated some non-existent day of the Fatherland Defender and all that. It is also cultivated here in the hall, by the way, by the fifth column. I'll say this: The Supreme Council and only the Supreme Council can organise and change legislatively what needs to be changed in the Ukrainian army. Only the Supreme Council, I stress, can adopt those laws that for a year, for ten, for a hundred years will do anything to build the Ukrainian army to make the Ukrainian army. Because, well, I don't believe in diplomacy with an aggressor of the East. I don't believe that Moscow can be approved by diplomacy. I believe in the Ukrainian army. I believe in the army that will free Ukrainian Donbas, and I believe in the Ukrainian army that will free Ukrainian Crimea. And that's why I call, first of all, to go back to the hall and vote in favour of Law 7549, because we are the Supreme Council, and these are our direct duties. Dear colleagues, return to the hall, let's vote. When laws apply to the Ukrainian army, most should be in the hall, most should give the votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u69	Thank you, Your Honor. I also urge the Ukrainian National Deputies to return to the session hall. I repeat, my fellow Members, your attention that this is not a requirement of a particular chairman at the meeting, and this is the rule of the Rules, as also recalled by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that we are now discussing a specific bill. Please, from the Opposition Block, dear colleague of Germany, please. German microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u70	Germano Vasil Ivanovich. Well, what is it? "The opposition platform is for life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u71	Raise it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u72	Colonel General of Justice of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I'm a little bit of an expert on this. I'd like to share with you, dear colleagues, to let you know what's behind this bill. You see, they hand over a soldier to a private cane and other instruments of physical influence to whom? Who? For a soldier who fought in a trench in any case, he used firearms, and only in hand combat does he use anything that was handy. The result is that someone is preparing an army to act against his people. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u73	Dear Mr. Germany, Your Honor. I'm asking you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u74	Now read on. Now read more: An officer is given the right to order the use of weapons of impression in combat and, if hostilities, read the statutes of all armies of peace, if hostilities are to be carried out, he is obliged to shoot to protect his country. This is what he's going to do in Crimea, it's going to have to be where he doesn't dump the Chongarian ostrich, it's going to be to protect the territory of Ukraine. That's what this is about. And here's the language, you just think, the Armed Forces of Ukraine are preparing to fight poachers on private hunting grounds. That's what we're talking about. Do you understand what's behind this? I'd like to be clear to you that I'm not saying for protecting soldiers, yes, they should be given the right to defend what you want. Look at the police co-worker of the Melnikov militia, who with his bare hands went to the C14, and was thrown away for playing, a police co-worker. He has the right to use physical force in the law. The boy applied, applied, and felt in prison. That's the law, that's the state's protection of the rule of law. And that's what I see in this law. He is not to be considered at all. It's nonsense.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the list of speeches on this has ended, but I want to say that not all groups and factions have registered. Self-help, groups? There are no willing speakers. Thank you. So that there's no image of anyone not being able to, not being able to, not being logged in. Dear colleagues, I am now asking to sign up for the National Deputys of Ukraine. We will give this discussion 15 minutes, according to the Rules. And once again, I remind you, not the request of the presiding officer, but the requirement of the Rules, as well as the requirement that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has specifically referred to at this time, that we are discussing a specific bill. The time for political statements is Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday in our respective sections. Please welcome Yuri Lewchenko to the floor. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u76	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I, on the one hand, am glad that, from our presidency, perhaps for the first time in the last four years, calls have been made repeatedly to comply with the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am truly sorry that this appeal came only today after the publication of yesterday’s investigations by journalists Bihus.info . And somehow, now all of a sudden, we're talking about the subject, you know, because everybody in this room who isn't lazy is not speaking on the subject, especially the faction of most people on a number of occasions. And, by the way, this morning, Mrs. Irina, they repeatedly spoke out of place, literally a few hours ago, but somehow they didn't mention it. And then all of a sudden, when people's deputies start to think about it, you can't just sit in the Supreme Council and pretend that nothing happens and just keep looking at the bills, and you have to keep reminding yourself, in fact, that there's some kind of total, total horror happening in the country when the highest officials are stealing an army from a warring country, here, you see, the Rules are mentioned. Well, according to the Rules. I'll tell you about this bill. The bill, when it comes to his need, is fundamental, correct. Unfortunately, he has a lot of work to do, and there are a lot of questions to him. And so, personally, I'm a freedom MP, and we're going to vote in favour of him in the first reading, and we're going to make amendments to the second reading. That's in case he passes. Because, most likely, he won't be able to get through the first reading right now, because there are no votes. And here I point once again to pharisaicism, to frank pharisaism and pure blasphemy, to the majority. Especially about this bill, the honourable Presidency, yes. When the reporter here spoke, from the BP party, the reporter spoke, that there were no votes, no votes, he urged the deputies to go into the hall and so on, and urged them not to speak on the subject, but called for a strong fist and to vote. Yeah? Only if we look at how there was a vote before lunch, how there was a vote before lunch after another bill relating to the army, and by the way, the same reporter from the WFP also reported it, and he also called for the MPs to all gather and vote, and there was a disgrace to those who did not meet, will we see that from the faction of the BPT from 135 people voted 65 to less than half. Yeah? So you, as in all things, you say one thing, and you act in a completely different way. You say, "Army, language, faith." You're telling me there's no money in the country, and you're stealing it! And then you tell poor people that there's no way to pay for medicine, there's no way to pay for education. You're just lying all the time. The Marauders during the war! Scrubs are a dot!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u77	Dear Mr. Lewchenko, thank you for your support for the presidency in order to comply with the rules of the Rules. And I don't think you'll deny that I presided over a meeting when the Rules were broken. I am a strict presiding officer, and including most representatives, I turn off the microphone when they violate the Rules. Thank you for your wonderful performance. I'm just asking you to avoid non-parliamentary language. Thank you very much. And please give your next speech to the national MP of Martovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u78	Arthur Martovicki, 36 constituency, Opposition Block. Please pass the word to Vasile Nimchenk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u79	Please, Mr. Germanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u80	Germany, Opposition Block, Platform for Life. I'm in line to continue so as not to repeat myself with regard to this law. And I want to inform you that by changing and putting into account this bill, such as the use of weapons and the use of special means, the legislator has forgotten, in general, that we have the Law on the Armed Forces of Ukraine. They are those who do not understand the law, where the issue of the use of weapons is concerned. This is a disgraceful phenomenon for the legislator. And the people, indeed, rightly say that we are already limitedly capable, we do not understand that the Armed Forces Act is a red thread that causes inadmissibility in no way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in any way, in the use and use of the Armed Forces, including against its people. What these standards are all about, I'm not going to repeat it. But I also want to say about the other side of this medal that was highlighted in this bill. The issue is the integrity of our soldier and not merely the material integrity of his dignity, dignity, and health. Please tell us who will appreciate who is to date the question of the rightfulness of these special measures. And I want to remind young MPs who probably weren't born at the time about the pepper blades in Tbilisi. Because that's where they were used by the soldiers to use bomb squads against the civilian population, against their people of the Soviet Union. That's what this is about. As a matter of fact, it's possible to take and cover up other slogans or words and things like that. It's not that this is about protecting a soldier. Here's the question of implementing the ideology of violence against non-intelligence, against the behavior of people who disagree with such actions. And you don't have to go too far. Look what happened to the Tornado case.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u81	Thank you. I remind MPs once again of the need for a bill. And the next speech, please, is by the People's Deputy Ostap Ednak. Please, please, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, national deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine! Today we're looking at draft laws that relate to the security and defence of the country, and we know that society now has the most confidence in the army and the church. And, in particular, the low efficiency of parliamentary voting today and the discussions that are taking place around the journalistic investigations concerning corruption in the security and defence sectors in the army, are causing me personally great excitement and great resentment. What should the situation teach us? Last year, we passed a systematic and long-awaited National Security Act, which provides for effective civilian control of the security and defence sector, which provides for transparency, increased transparency in the security and defence sectors, which, inter alia, should reduce the level of corruption in this sector. So for us, and I expect, particularly from the President of Ukraine, to put forward bills that should significantly increase and strengthen civilian control over the security and defence sectors, to create a professional parliamentary committee that should have national MPs who use both social trust and appropriate skills, and a state-level position that should investigate all these facts, which have been discovered by investigative journalists, and cooperate with law enforcement agencies. And this, I remind you, is both the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, and the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, and the Anti-Corruption Court, which we have to create this year to ensure that we have the irreparability of punishment and that we do not continue, unfortunately, what our many politicians are doing, the erosion of trust in state institutions, among which the army is one of the main. So, dear fellows, first of all, I call upon all of us to be responsible in our claims, not to use terrible and very emotional investigations, the results of investigations into political struggle and conflict. And yet to understand that we're building a legal state to work together on all of these facts found, with law enforcement agencies and to wait for effective investigations, not to politicize particularly sensitive subjects for society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ostap. Dear colleagues, previous speakers have rightly called on colleagues to return to the session hall, because in six minutes the vote will take place, there will be two more speeches. And then I'm going to give the drafters a chance to sum up more of their bills. And I'm also just going to appeal to the authors to talk on the subject of drafts. Please, Victoria Birds, your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u84	Please pass the word to Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u85	Please turn on Paul Kishkaru’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine In fact, the bill forced everyone in the room to talk more about problems in the law enforcement field, in the area of accountability for the corruption that is currently taking place in the Ministry of Defence or the Armed Forces. Of course, this bill needs to be adopted by identifying the important elements that it now prescribes regarding both the referrals and the authorizations of the military. And we will vote in favour of this bill. But in response to Mr. John’s comments as Secretary of the Security Council, as acting head of the interim commission of inquiry on the impossibility of corruption in the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, it is worth noting that the interim commission of inquiry, including the aim of working on specific tools to combat corruption, has been aimed at eliminating it. Because just recently, we were speaking from the rostrum and talking about the undocumented rights of the Ministry of Defense at 92 military towns in the Odessa garrison. And to this day the same situation, no movement, no fixation system, none. No area of the Ministry of Defence in the Odessa garrison has been registered. Instead, under the pressure of the builders, under the pressure of Truhanov, we are still handing out the land of the school's military range. The interim commission of inquiry, as the only yet possible instrument for parliamentary control of the military, the military organization of the state, should apply to all military formations, including the military prosecutor’s office, its activities. Today I had a press point with my colleagues, with lawyers who are protecting our military from activities, and more specifically the military prosecutor's inaction, and we now demand that the Criminal Procedure Code be amended to change the jurisdiction of our boys, so that our boys don't get sued by secessions in the Lysican or Bahmuta courts, so that our boys have a normal court defense in the Central or Western courts. We demand that we consider Parliament, the possibility of re-establishing military courts at the time of the war. A military operation against the Russian Federation. Thank you. And please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u87	Thank you. Mr. Paul, the topic of your speech is very relevant, while the presiding officer is obliged to pay attention to those who make a request to observe the rules of the Rules. Please, Andrew Illenko. And, Andrew, remember, you'll have two more minutes to finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u88	I'd like to give the word to Oleg Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u89	Please, Mr. Osuhovsky. Turn on the microphone, please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u90	Mr. Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. We have recently adopted changes to the Constitution that give us strategic direction towards the European Union and NATO. And what we demand is the basic "liberals": that's at least 5 percent of GDP for the Ukrainian military, not on the whole block: the prosecutor's office, the BSS and other law enforcement agencies -- only for the Ukrainian army. We need to reinvent the Ukrainian army into NATO standards. But I, as a member of the anti-corruption committee, have recently met with NATO experts who demand a real fight against corruption in the defence sector. It's about buying, and it's about corruption in the Ucrobanprom, which we're seeing right now is that there's huge corruption. And the Anti-Corruption Committee created a working group about a year and a half ago that was doing corruption in the Ucroborprom. But unfortunately, there was no significant response from law enforcement about corruption in the Ucrobanprom. That's why we also require, in particular, the creation and adoption of a bill on temporary and investigative special commissions, because all those working groups, the temporary investigation committees that are currently being set up, of course, are not bad and very good, but there must be a clear bill on temporary investigators and special commissions that will actually regulate the work of national deputies in those temporary investigation special commissions, and we will be able to effectively combat corruption in general in Ukraine and in particular in the Ukrainian army. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u91	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Oleg. Dear colleagues, we now have concluding words summarizing the authors of alternative bills. I ask you very much to return to the session room so that we can have a successful vote. Moreover, despite such an emotional discussion, we have no differences as to the need for a vote. Mr. Shevchuk, please give you two minutes to sum it up, and then Mr. Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u92	Dear National Deputies, the Ministry of Defence requests support for a bill to improve military service, order disciplinary powers, settle matters of daily activity, determine the rights and duties of chief sergeants, and head of the military units of the Armed Forces. The bill also provides for the designation of military personnel in the lists of special forces forever, defined disciplinary rights in connection with withdrawals, the award of nominal firearms and cold weapons, and the ritual of flag raising. The State Flag of Ukraine. Based on the findings of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the bill can be adopted on a basis, it doesn't need any extra expenses, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u93	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we have our emotions today, even our microphones can't handle a little bit. Thank you, Your Honor. You can go back to work. Please conclude, Andrew Illenko, who is the author of the alternative bill. And before we give this closing word, I want to once again urge all the national MPs who are in the classrooms, in the dining room, in interviews with journalists, to return to the session room, because in two minutes there will be a vote. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u94	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. There is a need to vote in favour of the appropriate Bill 7549 because it regulates a number of issues that concern our Armed Forces. And, of course, the army is what is saving our country today, our heroes on the front are the people we owe to being able to walk the streets, we can go to work, there is a state today, and there are no occupying tanks on our streets of our cities. And that's actually the terrible price that Ukraine pays today for its independence, for its territorial integrity. We need to understand that there is nothing more important than our Armed Forces than our soldier on the front. That's why the Supreme Council has to do everything to support our Armed Forces, and those who steal from the military's defense budgets during the war are stealing from a soldier on the front, they're sailors, and they're just people who can't walk on our land. Similarly, the Supreme Council should not put its head in the sand and ignore the facts that have now become known. They must be investigated. The law enforcement authorities should immediately evaluate them. All those involved must be detained and punished. Only then will there be trust, only then will there be order in the state, only then can we talk about victory in this war, we stand for our independence, because with thefts and marauders it will be very difficult to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u95	Dear Mr. Andrey, we thank you for presenting your bill. Dear colleagues, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will now announce a vote on two alternative bills. Let me ask everyone again to return to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I ask all the factions to invite the deputies into the hall, and I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to go back to your jobs. Colleagues, please, from the government's beds, from the towers, please ask everyone to come into the hall. I want to give you two bills: one is basic, the other is alternative. The committee proposes that the basic be taken as a basis. And first, I'm going to put a decision and a committee proposal on the vote, and then I'm going to make an alternative. But I can see there's not enough people in the room. I ask the secretariat to inform everyone from the towers that they will return from the hall and ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Colleagues, this is a cluster of security issues! I am sure that on the issues that the committee has proposed, we have always been united, and we need to unite now. I ask, colleagues, to prepare for the vote, to take up jobs, to return to work. Please come in, take your places. And I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on military service (No. 7549). Please vote, please support. On the basis of the vote, we support, colleagues. Security issues, we support, we vote. [[17:23:02]] For 165 I'll put, colleagues, the next suggestion: to the committee for a re-read. So I'm putting a motion to the vote, let's put together around it so that we can return to the committee for the first time again. Please, colleagues, back up, please vote for the committee for re-reading. Vote. [[17:23:36]] For 171 The next step is to return 7549 to the legislative initiative for further development. Please vote, please support. [[17:24:00]] For 171 According to the law, I also have to make an alternative. I'm betting on an alternative bill of 7549-1. Please vote, please support at least an alternative. Vote. [[17:24:25]] For 155 Colleagues, and I have to announce that the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on military service (7549 and 7549-1) has been rejected. Now, colleagues, I've had a statement from two factions -- "Peter Prashenko Block" and "The People's Front" -- for a break, but they're ready to replace the break with a tribune. And I invite you to John Winnick's speech. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u97	Dear colleagues of the national MPs, the people of Ukraine, unfortunately, we continue to have a shameful situation: we have failed another bill in the area of security and defence, we do not include in our work laws in the area of security and defence. I understand the reasons. The reasons are the beginning of a campaign. Information messages in the public environment are used by individual factions’ leaders to sabotage meetings. As a Security and Defence Committee, we can't let that happen. We ask, Your Honor Andrew Volodymyrovich, to stop this mess. We propose and insist that all other laws relating to security and defence be withdrawn at this time, in our session today, from further consideration. In addition, please immediately announce the suspension of our session for appropriate political consultations. Enough to engage in political agitation without taking care of one’s own state, respected colleagues. Surrender! We are under an obligation to support our country, not our enemy state. In fact, by our sabotage, we play the hand of Putin, a colleague. Please announce the recess immediately for consultations. Please withdraw all laws in the field of security and defence for essentially technical political reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u98	So you're demanding a real break, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u99	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u100	Yes. Colleagues, two factions announce a real break, but I want to warn you, but I want to warn you, I won't give you my word later, because I gave it before. If you want a real break, I'll give you my word when I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u101	I insist on taking a break now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m1.u102	Yeah, yeah. Colleagues, yes. Two factions announce a real break, colleagues. And a representative of the committee, speaking out of two factions, explained that this was related to the fact that all security and defence projects were being deliberately disrupted. Because 30 minutes later, 18 hours later, and the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine ends, two factions took a real break, now others are taking a real break, and in 30 minutes there will be a shut-off, and so now in connection with the fact that two factions have taken a 30 - minute break, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue our work. And, colleagues, I would like to emphasise, our task as the highest legislative body is to organize the Ukrainian legislative field, not to conduct the electoral campaign. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm waiting in the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
