ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, I welcome you all! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. Colleagues, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[10:09:20]] There are 371 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, a statement has come to the fore. At the request of two MP factions, pursuant to article 27, paragraph 15, of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules, we request a recess in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the faction "European Solidarity" and "The Voice" with a replacement for the performance. This is an announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! For a month now, the European Solidarity Council, along with the Voice, has been reminding the new parliament that it is the Supreme Council of Ukraine that determines the principles of Ukraine's foreign and domestic policy. And we can see that this Supreme Council has self-delivered itself from foreign policy. Today, society and the world are puzzled by what is actually behind the so-called Steinmeyer formula. And we hear from the new authorities that the Minsk Accords were inherited from the previous authorities. Dear Ukrainians, the Minsk Agreements were signed in the most difficult times for Ukraine, in 2014-2015, when the day before the "Normandy format" Putin gave us Ilowaysk and Debaltsevé. But the Minsk Accords place their responsibility on the Russian Federation to carry out the security block of the Minsk Accords: get out of Ukraine, withdraw their troops and techniques, and hand us control of the border. You have a man standing before you who, as authorized by President Dustenk of the peace settlement, took part in 85 meetings in Minsk. There were discussions on Steinmayer's formulas, "Morel's plans," "Saidik's projects," but Ukraine had always implemented the peace plan of Prashenko, which consisted of security in the first place, political-diplomatic settlement in Kiev, not in the Russian-occupied puppet regimes. And yesterday we had a meeting with President Zelensky, the faction leaders, and I felt very strongly that the President wanted peace, but he also sincerely believes he can defeat Putin. Friends, I saw some Ukrainian presidents who also believed they could beat Putin, but they were trapped by the Kremlin. And today our joint task with you is not to let Ukraine fall into the trap of the Kremlin. In fact, the Steinmeyer plan, which I hope you've all read, and in which there's no word of security, that's exactly what you're trapped in. And when Putin's previous meeting in "Normandy format" is already putting the Ukrainian President under conditions that it is our responsibility for the economy and infrastructure destroyed by the Kremlin that it is only in Ukraine that is responsible for security, that is, these key traps. So our team, together with the Voice team, demands that the Ukrainian Foreign Minister come to Parliament so that we, as Ukrainian national deputies, can communicate with him, the Chief of Staff, to give an answer, and where the Ukrainian troops are being taken to a clean field, leaving the infrastructure they have been building for several years. Dear colleagues, why is it that the Ukrainian authorities, when they talk about the deployment of troops in Gold, don't talk about the opening of KPPW in Gold because these are our citizens, and we agreed in the 16th year of the withdrawal in the context of the opening of KPWV? We believe that this dialogue between Parliament and the President must be continued in order for us to respond together to the peace plan. And this should be President Zelensky's peace plan, not Steinmeyer's.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u4	Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u5	Good morning, dear colleagues. Yesterday, three factions of Parliament approached the President, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Chief Genstab demanding to come to Parliament and report the situation to the Russian Federation. None of them have come to Parliament, unfortunately. We continued the parliamentary sessions yesterday and considered draft laws. I am convinced that part of these laws are right and important. And the Voice faction supported some of them. But that doesn't take away the main question why Parliament made time yesterday to talk about the future of Ukrainian space, but didn't find time to talk about the future of Ukrainian Donbas and Ukrainian Crimea. Parliament’s incompetence and inadequacy in this matter is not just humiliating; it is dangerous in terms of defining our position in the world. Against the background of a common enemy, we must be united and united in our actions. And the prerequisite for such a community is discussion. It's not to humiliate or weaken any negotiating position that we need to discuss in order to act together, to act together, to act together and to act strongly in the international arena. And Parliament has to hold this debate. I will remind everyone that according to the Ukrainian Constitution, Ukraine is a parliamentary-presidential republic. It is Parliament that determines the principles of domestic and foreign policy. And I'm going to ask everyone here, give yourself an honest answer to the question: do you personally feel like you're making a decision, that you're making the decisions you're voting for? In order to restore Parliament's subjectivity in defining Ukraine's foreign policy, the Voice faction initiated the creation of a temporary special commission to replace Putin and Steinmayer. That is why we need to create a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council on the restoration of territorial integrity and the sovereignty of Ukraine. The creation of such commissions is provided for by the Constitution, provided for by the Ukrainian National Security Act. This is the legal way, and that's what we're proposing. And it's already supported by the faction of European Solidarity, and we hope that other factions will support it as well. The task of the TSK is to work out a clear position for Ukraine, our red lines, our demands for Russia and the West, and to identify how we can work together to achieve our national interest. Together we need to find a way out of the locked circle of the Minsk Accords, to stop playing a foreign game, and finally start running our own group. We realize that this is not simple, but the only way we can succeed in fighting Russian aggression. And to do that, we need to learn not to act in front of each other, not to be closed to each other, not to Parliament and to the President alone, not to be separate from the different parties, but to be together: Parliament, the President and the various political forces, which are all patriotic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues! So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You have been given a draft resolution on parliamentary hearings on "Problems of living minimum formation in Ukraine" (18 December 2019) (registration number 2167). I would like to consider the above-mentioned issue in a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[10:16:59]] For 228 228. Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to the Third Party Galina Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u7	Good morning! Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Supreme Council of Ukraine annually in the State Budget Act approves the size of the subsistence minimum, which is the basis for the formation of social policy. Today, the subsistence minimum is tied to the minimum working pension and to the extent to which we provide low - income families. Regrettably, he is not yet subject to an untaxed minimum. At the same time, the decision is preceded by processes that set such a minimum of living in the Cabinet of Ministers. At the same time, in this year and in the previous year, trials have taken place, according to which the minimum living order has been suspended. There is no other methodology than the Housing Minimum Act, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine currently has none. It should be noted that at the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans meetings, these approaches and problems have been repeatedly addressed with the creation of a minimum of living. At present, more than nine bills have been registered in the Supreme Council, which in one way or another amend the Law on Living Minimum. At the same time, Social Policy Minister Julia Sokolovska has already stated that when the State Budget is formed, new approaches will be prepared when each social protection measure is formed as a separate parameter for the preparation of the State Budget. That's why, according to the committee, now is the right time to bring this problem to the general discussion. In particular, a comprehensive discussion will need to address issues related to improving the methodology that is outdated, Soviet, to match the approved size of the basic social standard with the value of product sets, to apply the subsistence minimum as a public policy tool and to the state of compliance with the requirements ratified by the International Labour Organization Convention. Please support the committee's decision to hold parliamentary hearings on December 19th on the subject of "Problems of Living."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please tell me, does this matter need to be discussed? Sign up for factions: two for, two for, two for. Ostapenko Anatoly Dmitrovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u9	I want to support our colleague in holding the parliamentary hearings on December 18th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u10	Eugene Nina Petrovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u11	Please pass the word to Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u12	Good morning, everyone! Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor, Your Honor! The European Solidarity Party has always supported and supported the quality of human life. Over the past five years, every citizen of Ukraine has felt that the priority of quality of life was the basis of the actual raising of the standard of living of people, not just the minimum of living we're talking about, and the average wage, we're talking about an increase in wages. We are talking about achievements that are positive and that need to be supported. Parliamentary hearings on the method of calculating the minimum of living are held in Parliament – this is a very good initiative. Because we had three clear positions a few years ago: the first is that Ukraine's compliance with the ratified International Labour Organization conventions in the field of subsistence minimum; the second is the approval of the minimum of living and the third is the improvement of the methodology and the determination of the minimum of living. At a time when we are developing a 2020 budget and three-year macro-indicators, it is appropriate to listen to this question. We support it. But second, I would like to combine it with the formation of the 2020 budget. Considering that we're offering hearings on December 18 is the last week of the budget period. I propose to hold a hearing at least a week or two faster so that we take into account when the 2020 budget is approved these proposals made by the committee and those that we are actually discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u13	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! As I discuss the problems of creating a minimum of living in Ukraine, I would like to point out first of all that this is the most relevant issue for Ukrainian citizens today. 1936 bracelet set the living minimum, 1560 bracelets. 1564 is the minimum pension. Think of the low figures! Of course, it needs real modernization. The second point is about the issues that have been reflected in the galloping inflation that has been in recent years. We know that we have experienced an uneven increase in nominal income and inflation index and devaluation of the national currency. For example, in five years in the dollar equivalent, pensions and subsistence at least declined by 1.9 times -- this is a decline in purchasing power and population platability. I point out that it is also necessary to take into account the point that the cost of utilities should correspond to the level and purchasing capacity of citizens. We have the Prime Minister's statement that 15 per cent of the family's income is to be paid for municipal services. So if we have an average payment, and you know these numbers, 3,000 dollars a person for utilities, then it has to have an income of 20,000 dollars per family. We realize that there is no such income in Ukraine. Therefore, when calculating and making appropriate changes, it is essential to take into account the cost of utilities that are intended to match the level of payability and purchasing power of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u15	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Head, dear friends! The subsistence minimum in Ukraine, unfortunately, has become an illustration in languages, because we don't understand that it has always been chronically underprivileged in the State budget of Ukraine, chronically understated and completely unrealistic. I'll give you a few numbers. In the last 5 years since the 14th year, the living minimum in Ukraine has grown to less than 700 dollars, or 58 percent, to 1,000 853 dollars. Meanwhile, consumer prices did not increase by more than 104 percent. The price of most social products fell from 58 percent to 542 percent. Compare the rate of increase in the subsistence minimum: 58 percent and 542 percent, the consumer basket, most of the social products. That is why I believe that such parliamentary hearings have, of course, long and important been painful. But, my friends, I agree with the logic behind holding these parliamentary hearings, Dmitri Alexanderovich, on December 18 is clearly pointless in terms of the formation and acceptance of this State Budget of Ukraine. Because we've criticised the subsistence minimum laid down in the first reading of Ukraine's budget for 2020, where we see an increase in the subsistence minimum only to 2027-2189, while the growth criteria should be at least double or triple. I believe that these parliamentary hearings are to take place, not in December, but in October, so that the maximum of these criteria are reflected in the second reading of the State Budget of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Zimbaluk Vladimir Volodymyrovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the honorable presidency, the national deputies and those who watch and hear us! I really want to thank the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the protection of the rights of veterans, Mrs. Trelyakowi, for the good initiative to conduct parliamentary hearings on matters of subsistence minimum. I would also like to point out that Bill 1175 was considered by the committee by Julia Timoshenko on this issue. I would ask the Head of the Supreme Council to have this bill brought to the session room for consideration before the adoption of the budget for 2020. I would like to remind all the people's deputies and government officials of article 46 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly affirms that if a citizen receives a pension or more or more social benefits and is the only source of his existence, the size cannot be less than the subsistence minimum. I would like to see this very standard of the Constitution approved in the 2020 budget. The Fatherland faction will support the draft of this decision and we invite everyone to take an active part in these public.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u19	Thank you. Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u20	and national MPs, and government officials, representatives of civil society, scientists -- all those people who are professionals in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Problems for the formation of a living minimum in Ukraine" (18 December 2019) (Registration No. 2167). Please support and vote. [[10:28:51]] For 338 Against 0, hold on to 0. Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Ordinance repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 20.09.2019 on the adoption as a whole of Ukraine's bill of amendment to the Ukrainian Act on the Application of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services on the Detinction of Settlements in Trade and Services. Questions. (registration number 1053-1). The issue is being considered by a simplified procedure. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, you are familiar with the registered decree and the basis for the registration of the decree, and, indeed, according to article 117 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, the bills prepared for the second reading are to be submitted within 10 days. We haven't always been able to do that, of course, but for today, because the question is very urgent for most of the population of Ukraine, we think that I think it's necessary to draw your attention to the following. It was particularly striking that on the day of the vote, several pages were added to the table for the second reading. In general, I don't know if all the national MPs have been able to get to know the table for the second reading, but in fact the amendments have substantially changed the rules of the law that were discussed in the first reading. But in the last pages that were released on September 20, when we voted with you in the hall, some amendments, by the way, abolished the basic principles of a simplified tax system. Dear colleagues, I am sure that you have not paid attention to the amendment No. 151 of the People's Deputy Deputies of Didenko Yulia regarding the introduction of the obligation to carry out full accounting of stocks by natural persons entrepreneurs who carry out the implementation of household technology, medical supplies, jewelry, and all those who are paying VAT regardless of the type of activity. In addition, it's the amendment, the rule for using the prior programming mode of naming goods literally to all natural business persons, whether it's a software registry for accounting transactions or just software, that tells us that we're a simplified taxation system, the basic principle of which is a lack of commodity accounting, that we're all assuming.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u23	Thank you. The word for the report is given. Nina Petrovna, yes, two minutes. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u24	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee considered a draft Decree (registration number 1053-1-P) on the annulment of Parliament's decision of 20 September, proposing that the decision on the adoption of the Law be revoked by registration number 1053-1 on second reading and as a whole. And on the basis that, according to the explanatory note, the adoption of this decision took place with a grave violation of the requirements of the Rules of Parliament, in particular articles 117 and 121, so it cannot be considered acceptable under the law. The Committee noted that the authors of the draft decision did not address the Supreme Council Head with a written statement and did not indicate in the explanatory note what the violation was during the decision-making. And there is no information in the transcript of the plenary session regarding the referral of members of the people to the chairman of the plenary with an application for a violation of the procedure established by the Rules. The committee also noted that the draft decree was submitted to the Supreme Council in violation of the requirements of article 48, part three, fifth and sixth of the Rules. On the basis of this, the regulatory committee reached a conclusion on the draft decision, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it should be decided by a vote on its adoption or rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I suggest we proceed to the vote on the rulings. [[B in m in s a l in]] For, for, for, for, for, for, I know you don't mind. All right, sign up for factions: who's up for who's up for who's up for who's up for what? If you don't want to speak, you don't have to write it down. Taruta Sergey Alexiyovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u26	I'll pass on the word Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u27	Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, I do. Nikolainka, the Motherland faction. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that certain regulatory errors were made at the time of adoption, which allows the Hall today to abolish a very scary bill, a draconian bill that indignant Ukraine. The questions are not even in the inaccuracies and corrections that Nina Petrovna made clear. I'm not going to talk about them right now, I'm going to say that you have to understand that if, especially majors, when you're going to the districts, talk to the small entrepreneurs that work for you, go to the market and ask what people think about this bill. It's an important question, it's a matter of fighting the shadow. But the question is that this fight started again from the most vulnerable part of the economy. This part of the economy is small and medium-sized business. This can and should be done. But tools to get 200 or 300 companies to optimize this way of taxing, we went to bury 10,000 or 20,000 small entrepreneurs, it's very dangerous. Because we actually have tools to fight tax evasion. And these are the instruments that bring about the conventions signed by Ukraine. We're going to be looking at 1053 and then 73. If I don't have enough time right now, I'll tell you then. But it's important for us to understand that there is now an opportunity in the Servant of the People's Party to help the President of Ukraine not to face small and medium-sized businesses, because, apart from those who are now starting to go out about the land, there are also small entrepreneurs who are now standing in the Bank's and asking the President to come to them for coffee/tea and explain that they don't like the two bills that voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u29	Thank you. The word is given to Gethmansev Daniel Alexanderovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u30	Thank you, Your Honor. Again, the invention and development of myths, myths that this law violates the rights of small entrepreneurs, myths that a bazaar will work with a smartphone, myths that a consumer will need smartphones to do so. So all of these inventions that are invented by the opposition that's used to playing politics. But that's not what I'm saying. Today, October 3rd, October 3rd means that three days already entrepreneurs are forced to pay fines in violation of the underprivileged electronic tax administration system introduced by the previous authorities. We proposed the rules of this law, which today is required to reject the opposition, that these fines should be postponed for two or more months and that the system should be further developed during this period. However, by playing politics instead of doing the things that the country needs, the opposition is blocking these bills, and we don't know what we're going to do with these fines that are automatically charged to tens of thousands of businesses today, which are simply physically unable to meet the requirements of the electronic fuel management system that you've adopted regardless of business interests. This is also true in the agricultural sector, this is also true in industry, this is true in large and medium terms, and also in small, by the way, in business. So rather than playing politics, let us do the things that are necessary for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u31	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u32	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I also talk to a representative, a previous speaker, a tax committee, and I realize that good intentions sometimes involve problems and things that need to be taken into account. But in this case, we've seen more than just social turmoil, we've seen a particular target group of small and medium-sized people whose interests are small and medium-sized businesses. I think they're in conflict with their interests. We must first consider their economic interests. That's why the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support this decision because we are primarily in favour of small and medium-sized businesses. And given that we have a total of 1073 and 1053, we're going to support the same draft of the decision. And in closing, I want to say the most important thing. We're waiting on the Cabinet of Ministers and the Servants of the People for real tax reform. We're looking forward to a simplification of the tax system. We expect tax exemptions and incentives for innovation. We're looking for real incentives to have new small and medium-sized innovation enterprises. This will be the main driver of economic growth. But we don't expect more pressure on business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u33	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u34	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, north of Restoration. You know, we're all talking so fast about what's so cool, all the entrepreneurs are waiting. Why, then, do people from all parts of Ukraine today turn to the national deputies to stop it? One and a half million Ukrainians working on a simplified system, why do they turn and say, "Don't do this?" 500,000 people who work directly in the markets, and they're going to be affected by what you've adopted. You said you called it childishness in the state. So the main detinction -- you have to fight this bearded shadow of Igor Valeriovich, which you're rejecting throughout the country! What, we have the main oligarchs, who? Marketers? We said we'd fight the oligarchs, we'd take them to their fingernails, and we'd collect money from them. What are you going to do? You found the main oligarchs in the country, congratulations! This is the new invention of "Sluts of the Nation," this is market traders -- this is who, this is the main oligarchs, and this is what we need to see. And of these, you start your delligarchization so that they all fall off so you can count with Igor Valeriyovich Kolomoyski on Private Bank. It's as much as it wants: $2 billion or $5 billion. And who's supposed to pick them up? Those miserable entrepreneurs who trade in these markets that you're forcing them and cashiers today, and warehouses, and all this system that they don't know, they don't understand. Why are you doing this? Why are you doing this? Are these the main ones that need to be fought in the state today? You promised people that you would help them, that you would protect them, and instead you would make decisions that you wanted to kill small entrepreneurs in Ukraine. Get it together before it's too late! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you heard the committee's position, we voted for it, it was taken. So I'm voting and I'm asking you to decide on the above-mentioned ruling. Please identify and vote. [[10:42:46]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You're invited. Show the factions, please. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 20.09.2019 on the adoption as a whole as a bill of Ukraine of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Detinction of Commercial and Service Accounts (Registration No.1073-P). The report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Nina Petrovni, who is a member of the Republic of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, I apologize to you, but you just said something about an indisposed electronic fuel administration system. Turn your brains on when you say that. First. Second, the second group is really those who trade in commodity markets. And don't shake your head that it doesn't apply to 500,000 families. And count, one and a half million people times three family members working in markets. So think about it a little bit. And what I'm saying is, in the last minute, there was a replacement of the page that was written about the introduction of online trade into that list of risky activities. And you know this is all trade? All entrepreneurs now have websites, an automated system, even a cash-free card bill for such a product. So if this type of activity that relates to the mode of sale, not the type of activity, you put it in the last second, you're saying that as of 01.10 the following year, not certain types of activity should apply the RRO, but literally everyone. Whoever trades anything has to apply the RRO. And people who aren't prepared and who haven't even heard of this news, and who don't even believe that it's the "Serves of the People" that could have gone for it. Now you're asked, your finger is now defining their fate, please press the green button.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u37	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Calchenk, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u38	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Regulatory Committee on October 1st considered at its meeting the draft Decree Registration Number 1073-1-P As well as the previous draft decision, the Committee notes that the draft motion was not submitted by the initiators of the bill to the chairman at the meeting. The Explanatory Note indicates that a decision has been taken as if in violation of the requirements of articles 117, 121 of the Rules. Draft decrees are in place. The committee decided that the draft decree was in breach of article 48, paragraph 3, 4 and 6, of the Rules. And accordingly, the initiators did not address the chairman about the violation of the Rules and did not make a written application to the Head of the Supreme Council. Thus, the regulatory committee adopted the conclusion: it invited Parliament to determine how to vote on the adoption or rejection of the draft regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u39	Thank you. Please. Do you want to talk about it? Please register by faction: two in favour, two in opposition. While the recording is coming, colleagues, I'd like to address all the national MPs for compliance with the Rules. I'd like to remind you very often that the decision on Bills 1053-1, 1073 was made on the 20th. This decision that we are currently considering was registered on the 23rd, and the Rules only provide for two days. So if we move under the Rules, let us still live within the Rules. Laba Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Carpage, 70 majority district. I would ask the national deputies of other factions today to go to church and solve their global problems, in front of journalists hundreds and cameras, how many speculations you can conduct at the address of our political power. Before you manipulate something, you need to clearly read the bill and determine in principle with it, in addition to your political contempt for society, just try to be tolerant. Since the North of Destiny tells us and Mrs. Jujanina how many noble projects they've done, the Europly Bills and other tax burdens, it never applied. You just mentioned our common Ukrainian people. So I want to tell you, on behalf of the Carpathians, that they're waiting for you there, come and visit -- and you'll be blessed quietly in Zacarpathian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u41	Thank you. Pippa Natalia Romanovna, The Voice faction,
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u42	There's a request for a replica, and I give the word to Vasilchenko Galin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u43	Vasilchenko, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u44	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. It's been almost two weeks since these two bills -- 1053-1 and 1073 -- were voted in this session hall, and we've all had the opportunity to watch what was happening on the streets. And I'm now calling on my fellow parliamentarians to support the annulment of this decision, because there must have been tens, hundreds, and maybe thousands of appeals from small businesses. And once again, the Voice faction has always talked about it, and it's going on, and it's going to do everything in order for small and medium-sized businesses in this country to be able to create the right conditions for this business to develop, not vice versa. Therefore, I urge you, honourable parliamentarians, to support the repeal of these regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u45	Thank you. It's Heratchenko. Potter Alexiyovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u46	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, north of Restoration. You know, a fellow member of the "Serial of the People" faction just said something about someone being quietly blessed. But you'll have to hide that face soon, you'll soon be "blessed quietly." If you want to "quietly bless someone" here, come to us, we're sitting there. And my seat is there, please come. And look, don't be blessed, because what you're doing is you're fined, against whom, dear friends? I realize there's no point in talking to a lot of colleagues here. Dear Ukrainians! Who's fined by this law? I'm telling you, against small businesses again. Again! Unseen fines are opportunities for fiscals! I welcome all of us: the age of poverty has ended. Now for the fiscals. At first, they completed a period of poverty for the builders, destroying the market share, now for the fiscals, so that they could take every entrepreneur to their throats. Everyone! They have completed a period of poverty for prosecutors, police officers, and other laws. We see that the end of the poverty era is going at a tremendous rate throughout the country, only in the end will the final begging of the Ukrainians, who are working and earning themselves today, are asking neither the national deputies nor the President. They are entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs who make their own living and their own family. So what did our new state and new authority do? She says we'll come to you, we'll take you by the throat and shake everything you have out of you, like a new team of procreations in the execution of Greensky and his deputies. This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u47	Volosin Oleg Anatoliyovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u48	Colleagues, the question here is not only in this particular bill, but in general what is happening under the noise of the discussion of the Steinmayer formula. The very specific Land Market Act, which is to be discussed very widely in society, is being broken down by a complete list of enterprises that are not privatized, including strategic and defensive ones, and is not approved in parallel by a list of those that cannot really be privatized. There was actually one decision to abolish the Labour Code, a new one that is aimed exclusively at employers' interests and does not take into account the interests of employed workers. There's a lot of pressure on a small business for the sole purpose of raising all the money to pay off external debts. In this situation, we have a lot of resentment about why the Prime Minister doesn't come to us, why doesn't the Foreign Minister come to us, or does the President not report to us? Why? The only person worth inviting today who could really explain what's going on in Ukraine's economic and fiscal policy is Mr. George Soros. I propose that we all invite this man together. If he cannot himself, let him send a full representative and finally explain why the majority vote, destroying the remnants of the social state in Ukraine and giving it to the completely transnational corporations that today are so popular and very close to the people, and for which many of us have voted, supported, Mr. Greensky wants to establish here a dictatorship of transnational corporations. This is the only person I'm interested in listening to here, all the others are puppets doing the will of the foreign and the backstage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u49	Thank you. Nina Petrovna Jujanina, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I think I'm about to give a speech to a young MP from The Servants of the People, in principle, which can even be considered a threat. But I want to tell him that at times it is necessary to have the mind, the will to take responsibility, and the difficult questions to resolve. So I wish you success in your work, and when you get to such socially important issues, you're also smart enough to deal with them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I bet. I'll bet on it. No, no motive. I am voting on the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 20.09.2019 on the adoption, as a whole, of the draft law of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Detinction of Settlements in Trade and Services (1073-P). We passed this law, and the committee did not support the above - mentioned decision. Please identify and vote. [[10:55:01]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Let's go. Let's see the factions. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Judgment Order 2018 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self - government (registration number 2156). The report is given to the deputy chairman of the Youth and Sports Committee, Mokan Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u52	Honorary colleagues, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Youth Prize for the Development of Parliamentarianism, have to award this award annually to young citizens of Ukraine and representatives of youth and children's social organizations. However, over the past two years, for unknown reasons, Parliament has not voted in favour of awarding such prizes and has ignored the actual requirement of the decree. Accordingly, the committee again decided to consider the issue of awarding the 2018 award presented by the district councils and the all-U.S. youth social organizations and made the appropriate selection of candidates. The draft decrees give you detailed information about them. I just want to point out that among them are the young citizens who have been actively involved in drafting drafts, monitoring various projects, there are candidates for science, there are the champion of the Paralympic Games, the leaders of youth social organizations. And the committee believes that the approval of Decree No. 2156 will be an important signal for supporting young people with a new composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and will facilitate the involvement of young people in the process of legislation, the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government in the state. Thank you. And please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, please tell me, does this matter need to be discussed? Yeah? Please sign up: two for, two for, two for, one for the factions. The love of Dmitry Valeriovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Jean Belenjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u55	Jean-Vensanovic Belenjuk, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u56	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The time has come for me to take the floor, and I am convinced that there is no MP in this room who does not support our young people, especially since the composition of our Parliament is younger than the Parliament of the Eighth Call. And the question of youth policy should be one of the priorities of our activities. With the aim of involving young people in the legislative process, the further development of parliamentaryism and local self-government, the moral and material encouragement of its best representatives to achieve significant results in the resolution of social and legal issues by Parliament's decisions of January 1, 2004, the established prizes of the Supreme Council. The Youth and Sports Committee, at its meeting on September 18, 19th, held a selection of candidates and prepared proposals for the award of the 18th Supreme Council Award. With district councils and all - Ukrainian youth social organizations, we decided to support candidates for students, postgraduate students, sports masters, representatives of public organizations, and members of the city council. People's deputies would like to support the committee's decision and determine. Noting our talented young people for contributing to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u57	Thank you. The word is given to Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, a faction of the Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u58	Good day to you all! Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Friends, we're often talking about supporting different groups of people, we're talking about entrepreneurs, we're talking about scientists. Of course, we also need to keep talking about young people, about innovative young people, about representatives of civil society, about social organizations, about what is left here, about Ukraine, about changing the country, about working here, about learning here, too. And the Voice faction will definitely support a similar determination. We will support all programmes that encourage the development and support of young people working both for the development of parliamentaryism and for the development of local self-government, and obviously all those who are active in real pro-Ukrainian social organizations. We also believe that it is important to promote not only support and similar motivation systems but also information. And the Voice faction will also offer information about similar stories of the success of young people, particularly on the Supreme Council website and on other sites where it can be talked about, where it can be shown. To inspire and motivate other young people to become actively involved in the development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u59	Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u60	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Undoubtedly, it is important to support the development of young active people; it is important to have a systematic state youth policy. At the same time, this decree applies only to a small number of young people. And the other part, much of today's Ukrainian youth, is unfortunately not seeing prospects for development and success in their own country. So I urge that the order of the day of our Supreme Council include questions that will instill the confidence of a young person that he will succeed, become a development, be able to create a family, be able to produce a quality product in his own homeland. Unfortunately, those bills that we're considering, on the other hand, create reasons not to trust the Ukrainian state to go out and look for experience, to look for opportunities for self-implementation in other states. So it's clear that we need to support those public organizations that have made a breakthrough, but I urge the Supreme Council of Ukraine to focus its legislative work on supporting various categories of young people. What do they need? They need quality education, they need housing, they need employment, they need opportunities to form, they need to build their own family, and they need to live in their own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u61	Thank you. Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin, from the Committee, from the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u62	Good afternoon, dear fellows! He asks me one day, the oldest grandson, and he says, "Grandpa, listen, why does everybody around (she's in 5th grade) say that the word "deputy" and this profession that you do is, well, softly, bad?" And I say, "You know, grandson, the thing is, it all starts like the classic one, like the classic one, from the wardrobe." When you get a certificate, when you become a deputy, when you wear this jacket or dress, they give you a badge. When you got him. You're not ashamed of your profession when you want to be respected or go somewhere and not be ashamed that you're a member of the Supreme Council, you're putting him on. It all starts with a little something. And when you are afraid, disrespecting yourself, disrespecting your colleagues, of course, you will not wear it, you ignore it. And unfortunately, the Supreme Council is ignoring this little thing too. Now, as far as this is concerned, it's small, but it's important. In the 17th year, in the 18th year, the Supreme Council didn't vote, it didn't support this question -- the question of people, the prizes for those people who today have a profession with you -- parliamentaryism, they raise a little bit and they give us the opportunity to respect ourselves. We are grateful to these people. And unfortunately, it happened again today that the question was a little lost. But thanks to the chairman, the Head of the Supreme Council, it was found. That's why we support the Fatherland faction, and I call upon everyone to respect themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u63	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Mikola Veliczovich from "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u65	Please, Grandmaster from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u66	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, I would like to express my gratitude to the Youth and Sports Committee for making this decision. This is the decision that we've drawn up, we've prepared in the previous call, in the eighth call. As the first deputy chairman of the committee, I was directly involved in the preparation of this decree. And I want to thank you, dear colleagues, for raising this question, because it's very important. It's very important in that context, because today we're talking about the elections in the occupied area, the inability to carry out, but we're talking about young people -- this is our future that should be concerned and we should be preparing for a change. Yes, we should be preparing a change even now, being in this room, we don't know who's going to be in the next call, but with the support of young people that we're doing right now, it's going to be what we're sending young people, what we're hearing, we're supporting them. I would also like to refer to the committee, perhaps to see if I can offer the composition of the Supreme Council to raise the prize, the amount of these bonuses. And one more thing. Respectful colleagues, young people, not only need a word of attention, but they need direct and material help. So during the budget, when we look at it, I would like to ask you to support that position in financing youth lending. This is what will really help young families, young people, not only a good word but also financial aid. Thank you. "European Solidarity" will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speeches are over. Please. I don't see who. Shahov, please, with a 1 minute motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u68	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Our team will support this bill, this draft award ruling. Please tell me, why is the Ministry of Youth and Sports today not paying attention to diamonds that are all over the country? I fully support Yuri Pavelek from the fact that she needs to pay attention not only to the sophisticated but to all the children who are watching today if we are going to Europe, 15 percent of the young today are coming from our country. For example, Maria Orehova, who sat three places, took the gold medal, won the Ukraine Championship. She has no parents, she is raised by her grandmother, she cannot buy a bicycle today, and the state does not care about it. Today there is no form - the state does not care. And while I was still an entrepreneur, I completely decided on the school issue to motivate young people to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u69	Ten seconds. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u70	I would like to point out that the minister of youth and sports should pay full attention to the young people who are in our country today and deserve gold for our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. For adoption as a basis and as a whole, the draft Judgment Order 2018 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government (registration number 2156). Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please take your seats, colleagues. Ready? Please vote and support. The Rada system. [[11:09:44]] For 335 Against 0, hold on to 0. Thank you. Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Let us now consider other matters of the order of the day. For your consideration, you have proposed a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev, a new edition, registration numbers 2143, 2143-1, 2143-2, 2143-3 (this is an alternative). I would like to consider the above-mentioned bill in summary procedure. Please support and vote, please vote. [[11:10:34]] For 227 Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Kloczko Andriyovitch. Andriy Andriyovich, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u72	Good afternoon, Reverend Head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters, especially the inhabitants of Kiev! I am pleased to present from this rostrum a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev (registration number 2143). This is actually a new edition of the Capital Law. In addition to the main bill, which was initiated by 39 Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of various factions, my colleagues, where three alternative bills will also be presented. This shows how important today is the need to update legislation on the capital city of Kiev. Why was the adoption of this law necessary? In 2010, the Yanuković regime eliminated the district council in Kiev, and virtually all the authorities focused on Khrestyk, 36, the suburban building and the KMDA. In the hands of the city’s head, who is under law the head of the Kiev City Administration, there were very broad, practically extraordinary powers. At that time, the areas of the capital, which are equal to some of Ukraine’s district cities, were left without local self - government authorities, which contradicts the European Charter of Local Government, according to which public powers are to be exercised by an authority that has the closest contact with a citizen. Sadly, neither the predecessor nor the mayor of the capital, Vitaly Klitschko, has shown that they have not benefited from the authority given to them in the interests of the Chinese. As a result, the capital of Ukraine, despite its enormous economic, human potential, has a whole range of problems today. The terrible state of roads, the number of excavations on the streets of the city, where repairers have sometimes not appeared for years. Uncovered streets and lush areas in remote areas, not to mention the chaotic construction of the city without the provision of social infrastructure. As a result, chiropractors have been in line for years to train their children in kindergartens, schools, and schools.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u73	Let me finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u74	The solution to this situation is to give the Chinese back the real right of local self - government and enable them to effectively control the activities of the city’s head. With the restoration of district councils, we strengthen local self - government in Kiev, embody the principle of national government, and draw closer to people by directing their efforts to resolve the most painful everyday issues. Dear colleagues, I, as the initiator of the bill on the capital and head of the committee on matters of public authority, would like to assure you that, despite what.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u75	All of it. Andrew Andryovich, I'm sorry, we have to invest in time, one rule for everyone. For the report on Bill 2143-1, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alekseiev Sergey Olegovich, gives the floor to the report. Short procedure, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u76	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! In the preamble to the Charter of Local Self-Government, one of the main pillars of any democratic regime is the authorities of local self-government. The idea of local self - government is the ability of citizens on their own, without involving the state, to manage the population, and to address the urgent local needs. Instead, Bill 2143 proposes to increase the power of the state through the creation of administrations that actually assume the function of local self-government. Bill 2143-3 (alternative) also contains a number of counter-versal rules, and there are also many powers of government that are formed to control the state over local self-government. And also Bill 2143-3 contains counter-versive norms, which are not in place at all, cannot be implemented into the general system of local self-government in Ukraine. I emphasize that without shifting power to the level of communities, we cannot create a more responsible, accountable and effective system of governance, and therefore a democratic state. In pursuit of this goal, Bill 2143-1 was passed. It will give the Chinese a mechanism for local self-government without involving investment control by the state. Our bill will strengthen the functioning of local self-government through decentralization, empower self-government with considerable powers, and provide adequate financial resources, as provided by the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Our project deals comprehensively with the legal status of the city of Kiev and the characteristics of local self-government. In particular, the city’s city head, who organizes the work of the city council, heads the executive body of Kiev, represents the territorial community of Kiev in relations with the authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u77	Let me finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u78	The Kyiv City Council manages property and utilities, takes steps to preserve history and culture, determines the characteristics of land use, approves the budget, and sets up local taxes. The executive body of the local council is Kyiv’s administration, which is formed by the mayor of Kyiv City Council and actually serves as the executive body. District councils are also foreseen. Area councils are set up by executive committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please step out of the way. An alternative bill, 2143-2, is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Osadchuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! We're actually trying to solve the issues of the next four million people who actually live in this city. It's more, probably, than 10 percent of the entire population of Ukraine, and looking at it in a very short-term procedure, I think it's a kind of contempt for all of these people. But once we've made that decision, I'm just focusing on what we're proposing. We propose to cancel Janukovic's rights, which criminally usurped power in Kiev in September 2009, and since then all the Ukrainian Presidents have enjoyed this system. We support the fact that the majority share our opinion and are also willing to support the cancellation of Yanukovich's rights, but we are solely deciding how to do so. We believe that the Supreme Council of Ukraine in this debate cannot go beyond the question of cancelling Janukovic's rights, because all the absolutely alternative and ingenious proposals that are in the bill proposed by the profiling committee have not been discussed at all with the territorial community of Kiev. We didn't ask 4 million citizens if they want a magistrate, if they want a green box of Kiev and a bunch of everything else, it's unacceptable. So the Voice faction offers a strong mayor, self-governance in the city of Kiev, and offers a road map. The best law on the capital cannot solve the issues that everyone is talking about: roads, gardens, and so forth. This can be decided solely by a new strategy, a new statute, a new master plan, a new zoning, and a definition of the authority of the areas and their executive boards. That's what we're putting in transitional positions, and we think it's the only way we can achieve results by holding a temporary election in Kiev. Today, Kyivrada is unable to make decisions for more than five months. We're on the verge of a real collapse.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u81	Let me finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u82	I would very much like to ask the committee of profile and the Supreme Council to discuss the issue of the temporary elections in Kiev and the question of the new Capital Act. We have every possibility of holding a temporary election under a valid law, which is the law on open lists, in parallel to the issue of power in a city that we are actually proposing. Thank you. Be very balanced in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u83	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tkachenka Alexander Vladislavovich. Alternative bill, registration number 2143-3.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u84	Good afternoon, colleagues! Over the years, the issue of the Capital Law has stood outside and few have wondered. Why? Because the city has a unique system of government, a kind of circular message that allows the central government, on the other hand, to handle matters. I am often asked when the city will finally be comfortable when hot water arrives, when it is possible not only to pass on a tractor, but also when there are parking spaces, where there will be basic security in the city, kindergartens, and health facilities. This law offers this opportunity because it restores normal European rules of self - rule in a huge city. The size of the Trieste from Iceland can't be managed from one house to Chrystec. This law restores power directly to the Chinese through district budgets, through district budgets, there is also a clear distribution of power between the central government, between the mayor, the deputies who will work, hopefully, on a professional basis in Kiev, and this law allows for the return of pride to the Chinese for their city, rather than looking for a shadow abroad. I ask all deputies to join in the discussion of this law. There will certainly be discussions in the city. We all live here and all interested in being comfortable in the city. Thank you. Come on in.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for factions: two in favour, two in opposition. Venislav Feder Volodymyrovich, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u86	Honorable National Deputies, the Law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u87	If you don't mind, get in the microphone, 'cause you can't hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u88	Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ukrainian Act "On the Capital of Ukraine - the City of Kiev" is now well out of date and is being talked about both by professionals in the field of constitutional law and politics. One of the major problems with state-law regulation in Kiev is that the local, local self-government body should have its own executive body under the Constitution. The merger in one city, at one center of the State Executive Authority and the executive body of local self - government is already creating certain conflict issues, so this law is now, more faithfully, designed to ensure that the constitutional status of the capital city of Kiev is brought into conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. The project envisions the creation of a parallel executive body, the Kiev City Council, and parallel to the existence of the Kiev City Public Administration, which is part of the system of state executive authorities. So in this part of the project it solves the main problem of the conflict between these two, more faithfully, between a merger at one center of two essentially parallel institutions. So I'm proposing this bill in the first reading to support, he certainly needs some work that the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has pointed to. We will be working on these remarks, but on the first reading, I think this bill is worth supporting in order to improve the legal regulation of the city of Kiev and the corresponding system of local self-government and the local authorities of the state executive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u89	Thank you. The word is given to Vasilchenko Galini Ivanovni, faction of the Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u90	Please pass the word to Andrew Osadchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u91	Andrew Osadchuk, Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, about a bill that was supported by a profile committee and we are now being asked to adopt it in the first reading, there are some problems with it. On the one hand, this is a monograph of local self - government. And if you don't go and read the conclusion of the GNEU, it's, well, it's, like the classic wrote, it's hard to read without a brom. The other one. This bill is totally contrary to the Constitution, but, above all, it is totally contrary to the legislation on local self-government and local administrations. It is the same legislation that ensures the unity and unity of our nation. Yesterday we started a discussion about the Steinmayer-Putin formula. Yesterday and today there are a lot of warnings about this formula, but this is just a discussion about the characteristics of local self-government in certain areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk region in the unitary state of Ukraine. And you're proposing for the capital of Ukraine to put in place other rules that are not available in any other city of Ukraine. The adoption of the Law on the Status of the Capital should take into account that Ukraine is a unitary state, and according to its territory, there is a single system of legislation with the same rules and rules that extend throughout the country. In view of this, there is no basis for enacting laws that provide for a special, nonexistence in Ukraine, legal regulation of certain relationships. This is written to you by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. Once again, there is no reason to adopt laws that are different from others. By this law, we place a legislative bomb under local self - government and under the uniformity of our state. That's why, with all due respect to a lot of interesting creative ideas, you can't even support it in the first reading under any circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u93	Thank you. Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u94	Dear Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs! These four Kiev bills remind me of the situation that was in this room in the previous convening of the previous parliament when so-called decommunization laws were passed. What happened then? The committees in which the MPs took part had no relation to the cities for which they had made decisions were renamed Kirovograd to Kropivnicki, Dnipropetrovsk, Dnipro. We rejoiced in this hall that they had done so. And no one asked the people of the cities whose fate they were deciding. Just like that today. I don't even want to comment on all four bills for one reason -- that the Chinese themselves in the drafting of these bills, which should be the main factor, did not accept practical participation. And all of them, four bills, if any of them are adopted today, they'll make even more chaos than what's in Kiev today when there's an effort to redistribute power. So our faction has decided to vote against these bills. And until they're developed with the Chinese and with the community in mind, we're going to be against these voluntary decisions that can make life in Kiev worse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u95	Thank you. The motive is Alona Ivanovna Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u96	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Guys, it's hard for me to get in in one minute, but I'll give it a shot. In fact, one thing that is good today in this room is that we finally started talking about bringing back Kiev’s local self - government and the Kyiv community. That's good. All the bills that are both alternative and principal, they propose to reinstate the district councils. That's very good, that's a mature decision, we haven't been able to do that in five years. It's about bad, colleagues. The bill, which the committee proposes to adopt (part 3, alternative, Mr. Tkachenka and other Kiev majors from the "Serve of the People"), do not be offended by the worst bill I have ever read in my life in terms of the quality of legislation. Please read the conclusion of the GNEU. It contradicts the Constitution, it contradicts the Law on Local Self-Government, it contravenes the Civil Code, it gives non-constitutional powers to the mayor, for example, to sign international treaties, while in the Constitution it is only with the President, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. It allows you to take away some of the magistrates that are being created there from private property for the needs of Kiev any property. For what needs? How Can I Take It? Absolutely unconstitutional things. So, colleagues, unfortunately, we have to vote against this bill, which is recommended by the committee. All we have to do is leave the positive standards there, the division of powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u97	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u98	There should be positive rules on local self-government and district councils, and all of this needs to be put back into work because the bills have to be written according to other laws of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u99	Thank you. Pottery Alexei, European Solidarity, with motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u100	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, north of Restoration. Dear friends, you won't tell me much in a minute. There is a bill that we have passed with colleagues (the first author is Mr. Alekseyev), which foresees a simple thing for the city of Kiev to have one head and one authority is the elected Chinese city head. And there are three other bills submitted by the "Serial of the People" faction that offer one thing so that the real power in Kiev is not chosen by the Chinese mayor, but by the President-designate of the Kyiv City Administration. All of it. Period. Dear friends, the archangel Michael on the coat of arms of Kiev -- he's not like a two-headed eagle, he's got one head. You don't have to do this stupid thing. Today you're destroying what Kiev received in 1494 -- the Magdeburg Law, and you're proposing to replace it with your Green Law. The Chinese deserve respect, and the city of Kiev must be ruled by the one chosen by millions of Chinese. So don't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u101	Thank you. Whitelighter Larissa Mikolayevna, performance. It was written in place of Konstanovic. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, the honorable presidency, indeed, you know, the improved legislation on the city of Kiev has been in order of the day reform since the Revolution of Dignity. Sadly, though, this was not done by the previous Council of the Eighth Call. All those years ago, there was an urgent need to improve city governance, to resolve legal issues, to strengthen local self - government, to expand municipal authority, to find better ways of cooperating with the central and state administrations of Kiev. That's why we have four bills today. The alternative bill on the capital 2143 is a celebration of local democracy: it is eliminated by KMDA, there is no control of Kyivrada, there are district councils in Kiev. But the simple question is: Why did not such a project come about earlier? So today we have a basic bill, 2143-3, that was passed by our committee of profiles and supported. And there's 40 pages of text, a preamble about a city of free people, a global city, but besides these, such controversial regulations, there are positive positions, because it's a collective work of experts, government officials, politicians. The goal is to establish a European Megapolis Management System, to divide the city's head and KMDA. So decentralization involves separating the state from self-government. So he's the best of alternatives, there's a separation of self-government and government, but he's really in conflict with the Constitution, where there's a separate law about Kiev that only defines the characteristics of local self-government, executive power and the administrative and territorial system. Thus, the current sectoral laws under Kiev are copied: local elections, land laws, city regulations, administrative services. That's why our group is "For the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u103	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u104	will support the first reading, but much of the innovation needs more work. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u105	Thank you. It's "voice" for reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u106	Oleg Makarov, faction of the Voice political party. I want to remind everyone who wants to reform local government in Kiev in one week, that Kiev, my hometown, goes to school every day, every day, using municipal transportation, going to work, taking children to kindergarten, using medical services, eating heat, gas. Every day there are many processes in Kiev that cannot be interrupted. What the drafters are proposing, which introduces anti-constitutional norms into local self-government, cannot be implemented in practice and can lead to a collapse. The proposal of the political party "Golos" is to be accepted as a basis and in the first reading, draft Law No. 2143, marked 2, which cancels Janukovic's criminal rights and actually introduces local self-government and transmits it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u107	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u108	Transfers real power to the mayor and restores district councils and eliminates district government administrations that are not local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u109	The word is given to Gurin Dmitry Alexanderovich, the head of the Committee’s subcommittee on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and construction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u110	Dear Mr. Head, Ukrainian national deputies present! The Committee on the Organization of State Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization at its meeting on October 1st considered four alternative bills with registration numbers: 2143, 2143-1, 2143-2, 2143-3, amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev, or this law is published in a new edition. The committee took responsibility for the task of drafting these bills and referred to the Association of Cities of Ukraine, the Scientific Research Institute of State Building and Local Self-Government, the Institute of State and the right of the name of the Korean State, the Institute of Law of the Supreme Council, the Department of Democratic Governance, the General Secretariat of the Council of Europe. The committee received the conclusions of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In addition, Mr. George Milbradt, a special envoy to the German Government for reforms in Ukraine, gave his recommendations to the committee. Let me draw your attention to the separate general conclusions of the Directorate-General of the Council of Europe on the draft bills. In spite of the comments made in the European Charter of Local Government, the 2143 bill received a positive assessment thanks to its ideas of delimiting performance. Bill 2143-2 provides for the delimitation of the functions of state and city executive authorities, without doubting the need for change. Bill 2143-1 has been marked, but it does not provide for the creation of an administrative oversight mechanism. With regard to Bill 2143-3, it was pointed out that if the Ukrainian authorities wanted to introduce a distinction between the functions of state and city executive authorities and the mechanism of supervision, the bill seemed to be a better developed version, eliminating contradictions with the European Charter of Local Self-Government. After hearing the information of the local self - government subcommittee, taking into account the conclusions and suggestions presented and discussing the subject in a comprehensive manner, the committee approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u111	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u112	The Committee adopted the conclusions provided for in article 114 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on each of the above-mentioned drafts and recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: the draft Ukrainian Law on the City of Kiev – the capital of Ukraine, under number 2143, to be adopted on the basis of work to take account of all the constructive rights of other bills. Bills by registration number 2143, 2143-1, 2143-2 committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u113	Thank you. Colleagues, we're getting ready to vote. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kev, the bill that was supported by the committee, namely 2143-3. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I would like you to support and vote. [[11:38:53]] For 244 Against 60, hold on to 30. Thank you, the decision is made. The bill was adopted as a basis. Show by factions. Let's go to. I declare "Serve of the People" - 234, non-factional - 10. Other political forces are 0. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Ordinance on some issues of ensuring effective preparation for the participation of national teams. Excuse me, colleagues. A statement came from two factions asking to replace the break for the performance. Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u114	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! A large public meeting under the walls of the Supreme Council calls on us, on behalf of the millions of peasants, farmers, public officials, scientists, to express a general position on the free circulation of agricultural land. They point out that the ruler of the earth, this truly priceless national acquisition, according to the Constitution is the entire nation of Ukraine. We cannot neglect, and the more thoughtless it is to waste the wealth that our forefathers left us. The future, not only of today but of all future generations of Ukrainians, depends on how we manage it. World and European experience shows that the most promising way to develop agriculture from both economic and social standpoints is to rely on domestic small and medium - size farming. No latifundist, the more foreign, will care about our soil, our nature, our village as a Ukrainian peasant can. Protecting and helping a native peasant is a direct duty of the State. In this regard, the meeting members find it unacceptable to draft Law No. 2178 concerning the circulation of agricultural land, which offers to allow the free sale of agricultural land. The bill opens the way for the purchase of domestic agricultural land to foreigners through legal persons registered in Ukraine owned by foreign citizens or companies. It discriminates against peasant and farm farms, encouraging large agrarian companies with foreign capital to buy huge arrays of land that they currently own on lease rights, does not provide for any control over the concentration of the salt mines in one hand. The limits set at an unprecedentedly high level -- 213,000 hectares -- are formal and easy to deal with. Under such conditions, free purchase and sale of agricultural land under this law is unacceptable, and the consequences of such a step may be tragic until Ukraine’s independence, economic and political. The meeting is convinced, the decision on how to manage national acquisitions and whether to allow free purchase and sale of land should be approved only by its legitimate owner — the people. In view of what has been said, the participants in the rally call on our leaders of the Ukrainian State to call on them: to recall the Government's draft Act No. 2178 on the Circumvention of Agricultural Assignment; to enact laws on the holding of all-U.S. referendums at the National Initiative; to amend the Ukrainian Land Code, whereby the sale of land will be permitted only after the approval of such a decision by the people of Ukraine at the country referendum; and on State support for domestic agrarians, overcoming corruption, raiding and other drafts. And most importantly, before deciding to sell 70 percent of the territory of Ukraine, organize and hold an all-U.S. referendum to reach out to the people and ask them if they are willing to sell their territory during the war, or if they're willing to make the profits that the Ukrainian land is producing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u115	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u116	They express a strong expectation that these requirements, which are followed by millions of Ukrainian citizens and the fate of the Ukrainian people, will be supported and fulfilled in the near future. And they demand that they go out to them today and to the leadership of the Supreme Council, and to the leaders of all factions, the deputy mayors of rural areas. They chose you and wanted to be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u117	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next day's issue. You have been proposed a draft Decision on some issues to ensure effective preparation and participation of Ukraine's National Teams for the 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote, Your Honor. [[11:43:57]] For 171 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Youth and Sports Committee, Kožemjakina Andrija Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u118	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, the committee discussed at its meeting a decision, a draft regulation on some issues of ensuring effective preparation and participation of Ukraine's National Teams in the XXIX Olympics and XXII Paralympics in 2020. The draft decision proposes to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with a number of measures to ensure the effective preparation and participation of Ukrainian National Teams, including in the preparation of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2020, to provide the necessary funding to ensure the proper preparation of Ukrainian National Assembly Teams for the Olympic and Paralympic Games 2020; to take the necessary steps for the organisation of the work of the Organising Committee for the Preparation and Participation of Ukrainian Sportsmen in the Olympic, Paralympic, Deflimpic Games, World Universities, World Championships and Europe; to organize solutions for the purchase of sport equipment and inventory that meets international standards, the construction of the so-called Modern Olympic and Paralympic Platforms, and the development of the special Olympics. As a result of the review, the committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decree No. 2130 on the outcome of the first reading to be adopted on the basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this matter? Please register according to factions only those who wish to speak. Jacob’s Nelly Illowna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u120	Please pass the word to Jean Belenjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u121	Jean-Claude Junction
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u122	Good afternoon, once again, dear colleagues! The following year, the Olympic and Paralympic Games will be held in Japan, with Ukrainian athletes participating. A successful performance in these very important competitions is vital to promoting a healthy lifestyle, and especially children, young ones, the strengthening of Ukraine’s international image. I'll tell you that I've been abroad a lot, and somewhere in faraway Rwanda, not everyone knows where Ukraine is, but everyone knows that she has such great footballers as Andrew Shevchenko, the Clicco Brothers. So we have deep traditions, and the authorities have to do everything they can to ensure that the National Assembly Teams of Ukraine are effectively trained at the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Japan. I'm going to represent our country at these competitions myself, I've already won the license, and we need it. [[Applause]] Thank you, thank you, thank you. Our athletes need to provide all the necessary conditions for training and teaching congregations, including abroad. There shouldn't be any delay in solving organizational, financial issues, it should be one of the first priorities for our country, it's very important. I'm convinced that right now we need to solve the issue of creating a sports committee for the preparation and participation of national team members in the Olympic Games. I asked President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine to lead this committee. In view of the foregoing, I ask the national deputies to support the relevant decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u123	Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, despite the fact that our Supreme Council is 10 years younger on average, I think we all mention those words, namely, "Oh, sport, you are peace!".. Even when the first Olympic Games were born in ancient Greece, it was a glorious tradition to stop wars. I hope that the sport will really unite our country, as it does today, and bring us closer to peace, to understanding that we are different, but we are all Ukrainians, I am absolutely convinced, will unite us now in the vote for the decision. I wish there were 400 votes. We've never been able to do this before. Of course, today we have to do everything we can to give and improve conditions for our athletes and coaches to go to Tokyo and then to Beijing. I am pleased to note today that our arches, whose federation I have the privilege of leading, have also been licensed to participate in the Olympic Games. I hope the archers will do the same in the spring. So I urge everyone today to unite around this decree. And politics must always be consistent. A month ago, I promised that when I finished my speech once a day, I would say, "Mr. Ruslane, our Attorney General, and Dustenko is still among us." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u125	Thank you. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u126	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, and in previous convocations, and I hope, in this calling, there are topics that unite the entire hall, regardless of who belongs to which political power. It's a question of children, it's a question of young people and it's a question of Ukrainian sport. And today, when we vote on this ruling, I think we will vote unanimously. But I would like to take this opportunity, my fellow honourable Members, to be vigilant in reforming or reorganizing the new Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports so that it can work faster, because this ministry is responsible for organising the training of our athletes by the start of 2020. We should bear in mind that it is this ministry that is responsible, and we must make sure that our athletes do not feel the need, or, more specifically, that they have everything. So I urge everyone to vote, "European Solidarity" is voting. And we'll support Ukrainian sport.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u127	Thank you. Stefani's Olga Anatolyevna, the "Golos" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u128	Please pass the word to Jurchino Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u129	Jaroslav Romanovich Jurchishin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u130	Thank you, colleagues. In full agreement with the State’s need to take care of the development of sport, however, I will bring about a dissonance in such positive reactions to this decision, for one banal reason. This decree recommends, but the entire hall, the Cabinet of Ministers, to carry out certain budgetary processes. However, this ruling was not evaluated by the Committee on Budgets. And we don't know if that's possible or if we're just doing populism. The other one. This decision was not made by an anticorruption committee. I want to point out that one of the biggest corruption scandals was the Euro-2012, when thoughtlessly, uncontrollablely, the money was spent in infrastructure. And given that the authors have infrastructure, particularly sports, I have no belief that without an assessment of the anti-corruption committee, which is mandatory, we have guarantees that this decision does not contain corruption risks. And I have an appropriate request for the leadership of the Supreme Council, a request. We're finally on the Anti-Corruption Committee, I don't know how the budget feels, we've agreed to go to the Supreme Council head, to the Supreme Council head, to give time to evaluate the risk committees, which are possible in the bills, because we didn't appreciate the Capital Law. I'm very grateful to my colleague Anton, he said we didn't appreciate the risks of the Bureau of Financial Investigation bill yesterday. We're actually sterling a very important mechanism. So, in all positive terms, with all due respect to Mr. Jean and to the many athletes who are here, in the hall that needs our support, we will hold. Because we're not convinced that we don't stimulate corruption and budget spending is unbalanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u131	Thank you. All those who wanted to speak. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a motion for a draft decision. on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Decision on certain issues of ensuring effective preparation and participation of Ukrainian National Teams for the 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games (registration No. 2130). Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[11:54:51]] For 292 Against 0, hold on to 11. Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Show me the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 208, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 19, "The European Solidarity" – 19, "The Fatherland" – 12, "For the Future" – 15, "The Voice" – 0, "the Non-Factional" – 19. Dear colleagues, I suggest you start a little early on our break, there for four minutes so you don't get into the subject. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and let's get to work. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, a statement has come from the faction to replace. From two factions, replace the break for the performance. Colleagues, who will be speaking? Guys, did you ask for a break with the replacement for the show? People's deputy, Bilozore. She can't hear. Would you please tell the People's Deputy Bilozer? Before the show, please. You made a statement. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, that's a "yes." I'm sorry. I thought it was a statement again. Okay. Dear colleagues, give us a few announcements, Ruslan Alexiyovich, as our colleagues come in, please, and we'll get to the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, some announcements have come about the creation of interfractional MPs, including the creation of an interfractional Vynitzkin MP. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatoly Grigorovich, was elected head of this association. Another announcement about the creation of the Interfractional Deputies. The head of this union is the national deputy to Plattsche’s Tetschen Mihailovna. Another announcement about the creation of the Interfractional Inter-Plattering Union. The national deputy Mulika Romanoovich was elected head of this association. Creation of an interfractional parliamentary association called the South of Ukraine. The national deputy, Artem Olegovich, was elected head of this association. The Interfractional Deputies Union of Bukovina. Chosen by the People's Deputy, Bozik Valery Ivanovich. Interfractional merger "Parliamentary Platform to Fight Tuberculosis." Bulah Lado Valentinovna was elected head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u134	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Other than that, I think we can do it a little later. Dear colleagues, please prepare, we are starting to consider the draft law, the draft law proposed to you for consideration, the amendment of the Ukrainian Labour Code (registration number 1233). Dear colleagues, it is suggested that we consider it as a reduced procedure. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues. I would like to put to the vote the issue of reviewing the bill with a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[12:41:07]] For-182 Decision taken. The report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Getmantsev, Danil Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what is this bill about? Since January 1, 2017, new fines have been introduced for employers, for businesses, dragon fines: 10 minimum wages, 30 minimum wages, 100 minimum wages. These fines are set for non-formation, for admission to informal work, for failure to report work permits for employers to their employees. The fines were designed to pay in envelopes. We still have our salaries in envelopes, as we know. What happened? What happened today is that an entrepreneur, by paying a fine of 120,000 dollars, would be better off paying a bribe to an inspector from work or leaving the company altogether and not working on it anymore, but registering a new one. This has caused huge corruption in the control bodies. This has caused a whole corruption business when individual entrepreneurs are given a roof for money so that their employees don't check them to work in the shadows. I'm convinced that pay in envelopes is not a problem, it's a symptom, it's a problem in the general shadow economy. And the symptoms can't be treated administratively. Symptoms cannot be treated with harsh measures by the State. So we're going to propose a substantial reduction in fines: from 100 minimum wages to 8, from 10 to 2 and so on. The bill is very small. The bill is aimed only at reducing fines and reducing pressure on business. Please support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u136	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to the Third Party Galina Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u137	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! In general, I support the proposal by the author of Bill 1233. According to the Committee, the implementation of the bill would introduce incentives and preventive measures, not penal measures, to employers, which in turn would create preconditions for and reduce financial burden on small and medium-sized businesses in Ukraine. We recommend that this bill be adopted as a committee in the first reading. At the same time, we would like to point out that the Committee has also considered the risks that we have considered in the context of the proposals of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, which consider that the guarantee of employers' compliance with legislation is, on the contrary, an increase in such fines. That is why this, quite high fine, they believe, should serve as the best preventive tool for employers not to violate legislation. Understanding problems, we believe that this bill should be adopted in the first reading, and between the first and second readings, we will need to find a balance between employers not using their position to discriminate against people in employment, and those corrupt sizes of fines that today encourage bribes by the State Employment Inspectorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u138	Thank you, Galina Mikolayevna. Please register by faction: two in favour, two in opposition. Tsymbaluk Mikhailovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u139	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies, indeed, these fines were imposed in the state at a time when one of the previous leaders feared the Ukrainian people, that he would show how to govern the state. And they really adopted this bill and increased the pressure on employers. I agree with the head of the Social Policy Committee, Mrs. Tretlyakow, that we need to work on the second reading so that those people who are employed and have the guarantee to form them do not suffer. But in general, we will be in the first reading, more loyally, supporting this legislative initiative. And we thank the authors because we believe that this will reduce the pressure on employers and businesses as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u140	Thank you. The speech is given by Arsenyuk Oleg Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u141	Thank you. The adoption of the draft Law on the Elimination of Laws that violate the rights and legitimate interests of employers of Ukraine is essential to improving the position of employers. In our view, it is more appropriate to replace the crazy size of a fine with a warning if it is detected for the first time in 365 days. A large proportion of the employees hired, really, are not officially appointed by employers, but let us be honest: have these dragon fines introduced by law changed anything in 2016? Absolutely not, they've just created an extra ball of corruption and a way to destroy business. Therefore, taking into account the population’s property situation, the regression in business development, and the other valid ones that make it impossible to pay such huge fines, Bill No. 1233 proposes to introduce changes by setting up a notice as a type of drawback for the first breach, and if a redefinition is detected to reduce the fine by setting four times the minimum wage. Our main goal is to improve the property position of every Ukrainian, which can be achieved, including through job creation and the liberalisation of labour legislation. So I'm asking my colleagues to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u142	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction. Nina Petrovna Jujanina, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, it's a really important question, and we should now discuss, not unlike just fines for violating labour legislation, but other things. To talk about what can contribute to the childishization of wages is to definitely reduce the burden on the employer. These are exactly the incentives to pay the bill. Indeed, such fines, which were accepted by the previous authorities, did not work because the system of supervision, inspection, or labour inspection, turned it into that additional pressure on business or money, as always, into a pocket itself. So, indeed, before making such a decision, we need to think about what the doers will do. This is also true of the changes that have been made in the application of accounting registers. Think about it. Is it possible for the performers to put in place the same standard as it is prescribed in the law, or will there be corruption again? Because it was inappropriate to cancel now if the new authorities ensure that the rules of the law are fully implemented and enforced. Indeed, fines are huge, and I would like to tell the head of a professional committee, because all employers are talking about amending the Labour Code so that they can implement all the rules of the Labour Code, not to be cautionary. They're anyway in the vast majority, small businesses can't meet the conditions of the '70s Labour Code. So that's the difference in fines -- we're going to support it in the first reading -- but it was going to be after we offered employers new conditions for implementing labour laws and really protecting all of our employees, and then different laws. Because I think that by your powers, the labour commission, now an inspection, can implement the law in a precise manner and not push it into business. That's how you present yourself, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u144	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! Of course, it's a good idea -- about lowering fines, it really does affect small business. But there's one pretty important "but": warnings about the impact on hired workers. Because before the second reading of the draft law that will be considered, and I have a proposal for the Committee on Social Policy to prepare and show those warnings that make it impossible for both liberators and any other steps in relation to hired workers first. We have the right suggestions, we're ready to send them to the right committee, so that after that reading we have a document that doesn't raise questions, comments, and will be a real, normal product. And the warnings that the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration would also be good to take into account in order for the standards that I've just talked about to be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u146	Thank you. Is there any more? Yeah, one minute. Dear colleagues! Heads of factions, please invite the national deputies to the hall. The last performance is Shahov Sergey Volodymyr, MP for the Future. I'm sorry, it's non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u147	It's postfractional. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Of course, this bill needs to be supported and audited, which was fined in the work of the bill. Was that bill prescribed as a corrupt scheme for the power organs? Of course, small, large, and medium - size businesses need to be supported today and rid of the oligarchs. We still need to have delligarchization in our country. And secondly, today, miners from 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 sit without pay. My parents are going to the store today with a "amber book" with no pay. Who will be responsible for the fact that the State owed wages to workers who sit a thousand meters underground and today in the mine, risking, even under water flowing from the Lugansk region, occupied areas of 49 mines? Please tell us who will be responsible for the 175th article.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u148	Please finish for 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u149	Criminal Code? We've been to the Minister of Energy and Ecology, and we've been promised a bill will be put in on Wednesday after pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u150	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine (removal of rules that violate the rights and legitimate interests of employers of Ukraine) (Registration No. 1233). Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:54:00]] For 288 Against one, hold on to five. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please tell me, can we accept this bill as a whole? [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee has accepted, yes, the committee as a basis. I see. Dear colleagues, then I suggest you cut in half the preparation for the second reading of Bill 1233. Please support and vote. [[12:54:42]] For 230 Against 7, holding 49. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Just a minute. I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Doctor of Science and the Professor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, I would like for us to never forget our human qualities in our legislative work. I'm just asking you to turn around and look at the scenes: they're kids, they're students, as far as I'm concerned, at the Dialogue School in Kiev. Let's welcome them all together. [[Applause]] And I think we should never forget who we work for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u152	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Let's get to work. Why don't you come and see us? Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft of the Act on Concession (Registration Number 1046) (second reading). The report is given by Podlasi Roxolani Andriyovni, deputy head of the Economic Development Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Your opinion is proposed in Bill 1046 – on concessions. Today in Ukraine, as you may know, there are some 150 valid concession contracts. But I'm pretty sure you've never heard of them. Because the state has not been able to invest in these objects, concessionaires have not built modern businesses and have not created thousands of jobs. At the same time, since the 1990s, more than 1 000 private partnership projects have been implemented in the European Union, including concessions worth over 365 billion euros. During 2013 - 2017, Turkey invested more than 88 billion euros in various projects from the construction of new airports to health facilities. In Ukraine, the transfer of state property to concession is now governed by four different laws that conflict with each other. In doing so, there are no transparent procedures for the preparation of concession projects and for the selection of concessionaires. We propose to amend this by drafting Law 1046. It provides an opportunity, in particular, to provide non-monetary public support to an investor. This could be the conduct of electricity lines or the placement of government orders or the decommissioning of land. We defend the interests of the state by means of the right to replace the concessionaire. We're introducing the possibility of involving counselors who improve the quality of the preparation of concessional projects and much more. In addition, when preparing for second reading, we also anticipated the possibility of holding an open auction in ProZorro. A separate new algorithm will be developed for the concession, which will evaluate all the parameters that are being evaluated, the concessional competition is the size of the concession fee, it's the quality of the technical decisions, it's the duration of the performance, and it's the supply of guarantee services. Transparency and competition on this issue will ensure the quality of concession projects. During the drafting of the bill, 158 comments and suggestions were received to the committee for the second reading, of which 100 were taken into account and 47 were rejected. The committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council draft Law No. 1046 to adopt, on second reading and as a whole, as a law with further technical and legal processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u154	Thank you, Rocsolana Andrienne. Let us turn to the consideration of rights that have been rejected by the committee. Amendment number 5, Taruta. He doesn't mind. Edit 6, Labazuk. Seven. Is Labazuk in the hall? None. Amendment 13, Klimenko. Don't insist. 14. Don't insist. 17, Sphenov. Don't insist. 18, Klimenko. Which one will you insist on? Please turn on Klimenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u155	I just got the table, now, a minute, I'll see, okay, and I'll tell you what I insist on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u156	Colleagues, please step aside. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, please step aside so that your colleagues can be seen. Thank you very much. Again, if I may, because I have not heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u157	I just got my license plate. Give me a minute, I'll look at the repairs, there's two adjustments that I insist on, and I'll tell you the numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u158	If we are. So we're gonna go back to them, okay? Dear colleagues, I feel like we're going to pass this bill pretty quickly, so I'm asking the national deputies to come into the hall. Dear colleagues, would you please tell me who insists on what they're doing? Fungi, huh? What's the correct number? 22nd? 120, probably a friend, right? 22nd - Taruta.) Marikowski insists? Culinic? Is it not your turn? A. Marikowski? He won't. Kunaev, 131st. 132nd, Kasai. Bondarenko, do you insist? 147 Bondarenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u159	Good day, fellow believers, a very important issue of introducing a mandatory environmental audit of environmentally friendly objects. It's a technical tool. An agreement was reached on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u160	Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u161	Yes, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u162	Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u163	Committee position: we agreed with the author. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, please identify and vote. The committee's asking for support, isn't it? Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. The committee supports this amendment? Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u165	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, I'm putting the number 47 of the Bondarenko People's Deputies to the vote. 147, I'm sorry, National Deputy Bondarenko. The committee doesn't object. Please support and vote. [[13:04:39]] For 249 Decision taken. Edit included. Amendment number 148. Please turn on Bondarenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u167	This is the same correction, only in another article.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u169	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, I am voting for 148 national MP Bondarenko. Please support and vote. [[13:05:32]] For 251 Decision taken. Amendment 148 of the Bondarenko People's Deputy is supported. 154th, Shulak. Don't insist. 155th, Grissom. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, today we are considering, indeed, the relevant law, and it is progressive – the concession. But as an MP from Luhansk, I have a question about the fact that this law does not extend to the carbon field. And I don't understand why? Today we have heard of Mr. Shahov, who speaks of all the problems that today are in the carbon economy. There's no pay, there's a lot of problems. Why doesn't this act fall under this law today, I mean the carbon field? And I'm also asking a question about this, and an amendment to include the possibility of existing concessions to use this law. I'm asking you very much for your support. Two companies that now have concessions are located in an uncontrollable territory in Luhansk. Please tell them what kind of signal we send when we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u172	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u173	The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u174	Dear colleagues. Explain why, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u175	Because section XXI, paragraph 5, of the law provides that concession contracts entered into before this law becomes effective are valid until the end of their term of office. We believe that the terms of the contract are sufficient to regulate the concession on these two subjects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u176	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? No, we won't, I'm sorry, there can't be a discussion here. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, well, there's the Rules, we're moving under the Rules. Dear colleagues, please vote and determine. Please take your seats. Please vote and determine. [[13:08:06]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, who insist on the papers? Klimenka, please turn on the microphone. There's a license number.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u177	Guys, can you step back, please? Thank you. I have two revisions: 39 and 91. I do not insist on voting, but I would like to point out that concession payments will go to the state budget. Local communities, public stock companies, and everyone else will not receive concession payments. Given that we have actually cancelled the rations from the following year, there is a big problem as to how much local communities and state-owned enterprises will be motivated to make concession contracts in general. It's just that I want this to be noted because there's actually a big opposition to local communities to do concessions if they don't get any profit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u178	Thank you. And Nikolainka, with the motive of a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u179	Thank you, colleagues. So the bill as a whole, from Fatherland, I want to say that it's not bad and it's progressive. But we're concerned that he has a number of contradictions that, in principle, in "skill hands," as has happened repeatedly in Ukraine, may contain corruption threats. In particular, there is a provision for the initiation of concessions to potential concessionaires combined with the fact that the selection of the concessionaire can take place through direct negotiations. And that really creates some kind of corruption risk. At the same time, we refer to some of the best practices in modern legislation, but there are no preconditions for applying a wider range of models. In fact, we make this law the only model of construction, management, and transfer of objects. And when the object is completed, the concession contract, the term, perhaps the object will fall into state responsibility, and perhaps it will not be necessary at that time. And these models were important to predict. Because there are other international models. So thank you. But I think we'll stay out of support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u180	Thank you. Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, a minute of motive. And, colleagues, let's move on to the vote after that. Please invite the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, a beautiful initiative, important, necessary, in time. And I'm sure a lot of you will. But the conclusion of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine to the European Union made it clear before the first reading that, unfortunately, this bill violates the Association Agreement. Unfortunately, I can see that my colleagues did not listen to our suggestions and did not take them into account. I would like to point out that until the second reading, our committee does not reach its conclusion, which makes it impossible to trace where we are violating and where we are not violating the Association Agreement. I propose that this be regulated by the Ukrainian Rules and this could be a change that could be supported by the Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u182	For the reasons of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich. And let's go to the vote. Colleagues, invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u183	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, first of all, I want to say that it is better to live with rules without rules. The big work that's been done for three years, I want to officially thank you today on behalf of the deputies of the Supreme Council and the last one, and the convening, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the practical assistance they've given us. And the third, important question is that our political power will support this bill. We conclude from the fact that the bills that are currently under consideration for the development of the state are very important, based on the practices that have been put in place. Australia, for example, is medicine, European countries is infrastructure, Canada is small and medium-sized business, including Ukraine, we have big projects and we have projects. And finally, this reinforces the role of the public private partnership and the project perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u184	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations of the draft concession law (registration number 1046). Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the vote, please support and vote. [[13:13:28]] For 257 Against 0, hold on to 23. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Construction Standards Act to improve building standards (registration number 1052) (second reading). The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Schuljak Oleni Aleksyevni. Fellows, don't break up, please, there's very little right here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u185	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee on the Organization of State Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization at its meeting on October 1st reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Construction Standards Act (Registration No. 1052), which was adopted by the Supreme Council following the first reading on the basis of September 11th. A comparative table containing 29 amendments and proposals from seven entities of the legislative initiative, of which 8 are included, 4 are taken into account on an editorial basis, and 17 are rejected, is being prepared for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its second reading by the committee. The bill provides for a shift from the Soviet orderly method of building standards to the traditional one widely used in developed countries. First of all, it will allow us to implement as modern architectural solutions and new technologies in construction. The parametric method provides for the setting of safety, functionality, and object quality parameters. And as parameters, targets, functional requirements, and criteria will be used to meet the object. So if there was a language in the debuts before, for example, that the width of the passage should be six meters, it would now be modernized: the width of the passage must ensure the unhindered passage of a truck and a light car, ensuring the safety of pedestrians on the sidewalk. Then the designer will calculate the necessary indicators and propose alternative solutions. Having heard the information of the construction and design subcommittees on construction, construction, well-being and land relations within the area of construction, technical regulation and pricing, having found out the position of the Ukrainian national deputies, members of the committee invited to meet and discussed the subject in a comprehensive manner, our committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Building Standards to improve building standards (registration number 1052) on the basis of the consideration of the second reading to be adopted in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u186	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to law enforcement. Amendment number two. Royal? There's no royal in the hall. Yeah. Okay. Gorenouk, number four. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u187	Thank you. It's a technical paper. For example, there's the term "mandatory requirements" and I think the word "compulsory" can be deleted because if there are "requirements", they automatically become mandatory. Well, it's important because every word of the law has to carry a sense of exertion, and it's important to avoid using unnecessary words if they're overloading the law's text.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u189	This amendment is rejected by the committee because we believe that it is appropriate to focus on the need to apply building standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u190	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Thank you. No. 5, Puziychuk. Is there a Puziyczuk in the hall? Thank you. Amendment number 9, Bondar. Don't insist. Gorenjuk, number 12. Dear colleagues, please invite the national MPs. We will now proceed to the vote. Edit number 19, Gorenjuk. Are you going to insist on something? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall, and we have exhausted a list of rights that have not been supported by the committee. I see, Ivanno Orestovno. Now Klimpush-Cincadze with a motive, and we move on to the vote. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that, despite the positive changes proposed by this bill, he also needed serious legal clarification on the conformity of the Association Agreement. And we agreed to that when we talked to the co-authors at our committee meeting, unfortunately that wasn't included. And I would just like to point out, colleagues, that by the end of 2020 we would have all of these building standards in line with European law. In fact, I have doubts that we will return to the consideration of such a law by the end of 2020. If we are seriously focused on membership in the European Union and are committed to implementing the Association Agreement, I would like to ask the authors of the bill to be more careful about the comments given by our committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u192	Thank you. Are they still willing to speak? If not, let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Construction Standards Act (Registration No. 1053). Please take your seats and prepare for headship. Excuse me, 1052! 1052 - correct, please. I'm betting on a bill, registration number 1052. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:20:33]] For 259. Against 0, hold on to 34. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Law on State and Municipal Property Rental (Registration No. 1055-1). This is the second reading of the bill. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Economic Development, Mr. Silent Alexia Vasilovich. Speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u193	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, the committee at its meeting on 1 October 2019 considered the draft of the Ukrainian Law on Renting State and Municipal Property (registration number 1055-1) of 6 September 2019, adopted as a result of the first reading, based on 13 September 2019, with a brief preparation for second reading. The purpose of the bill, as stated in the explanatory note, is to significantly improve, simplify and reduce the rental of state and municipal property to achieve transparency and openness in the rental of state and municipal property, to involve a wide range of investors in the rental of state and municipal property. During the drafting of the bill, 97 comments and suggestions from the Ukrainian National Deputies were made to the committee for the second reading, which resulted in a rejection of 38 as a result of the Committee’s consideration. The main legal administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus is a comparative table of the bill with observations. The Committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a second reading draft of the Ukrainian Law on Renting State and Municipal Property (registration number 1055-1) to be adopted on second reading and as a whole as a law with further technical legal processing. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're going to consider rights that have been rejected by the committee. Amendment number one, Klimenko. Which one will you insist on? None. Thank you. No. 5, Ciba. Don't insist. Number six, Pauline. Are you going to insist on law enforcement? No, it's not. Thank you. Fedienka. Don't insist. Coltunovich, number 16. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u195	Dear Mr. Head, I'd like to have a 4 or 5 right there, and I'd like to say right after they do that we have very serious problems financing the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. And there are those proposals that are directly in these papers that have been applied and worked with the official representatives of the Academy, the National Academy of Sciences and the Branch Academy of Sciences. And accordingly, even though these amendments were not taken into account, we understood, so we don't insist on them, and they don't need to be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u196	Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Thank you. Are you going to be in the next session? You won't either. Thank you. Quiet, right number. I'm sorry. No, it's not. 26 revisions, Kaptielov. Don't insist. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, invite the deputies to the Hall, and we'll move on to the vote soon. 43rd, Grissom. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, the law to be able to introduce really some standards that allow some objects to be removed from the single complex. The lease is sometimes made for a very large term, up to 49 years. And what do we have? For example, Dobropil’s Mine Management. It's also part of a single property complex. The crowd wants to take it, they don't have the ability to do that. So I ask you very much to look at and vote for that amendment. This will allow communities to really take away what they want and involve investors as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u198	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u199	Actually, there's something wrong with that. The paper refers to the only property complex that is leased with rights and obligations. At the time of the agreement, there may be commitments to be made to the tenants. That's the whole point of renting a single property complex. And the correction proposed may lead to problems with the transfer of all rights and obligations to the renter and the blocking of the full use of the single property complex. Therefore, the committee recommends that this amendment be disregarded, more specifically, by rejecting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u200	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please bet on the vote number 43, the committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:27:13]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 45, Batenko. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u201	By two turns, 45th and 47th, the co-author of the amendment, Mrs. Irina Konstanovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u202	Thank you. Edit 46, Dubyl. Oh, Konstankevich, I'm sorry, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u203	Edit 45 applied to the activities of religious organizations. And we believe that the bill limits, unjustifiably limits the rights of religious organizations to purely religious activity. Happily, religious organizations have not only engaged in church rituals, but they are still doing a great deal of social, educational, and other activities of social significance. We have been approached by many religious organizations that have engaged in such activities during the years of aggression in the East during the years of independence of Ukraine. And the fact that this was rejected reminds us of Soviet times and such a narrow vision of religious organizations only in religious activities. Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u204	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u205	The bill, prepared for the first reading, provides the possibility of paying, as it were, rents for religious organizations, but only for rituals and ceremonies. And the proposal, Mrs. Konstankevitch’s amendment, is without reason expanding the circle of entities that will be able to rent property without auction. This will result in abuse and a decrease in the income of the State and local self - government agencies from the lease. This proposal is contrary to the bill’s concept of maximum investment in rent.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u206	Do you insist on voting? Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 45 of the people's deputies Batenka and Konstanovic. Please identify and vote. The committee didn't support her. [[13:29:41]] For-50 The decision is not taken. No. 6, Dubil. Don't insist. Would you please tell the national MPs, Pauline, Tsuba, that you are insisting on what you are doing? Don't insist. National Deputy Gribe, are you insisting on law enforcement? Which one will you insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u207	80.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u208	Again. Turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u209	80.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u210	Now, a minute. 47th partially counted. Turn on the microphone, Konstankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u211	Dear Mr. Head, I would like to point out that, in fact, our amendment, the Group "For the Future" is partially counted. But what we would like to point out is that, in addition to taking into account the interests of educational institutions, there remain beyond the rules of law charitable foundations, public organizations and many other socially important organizations that provide services in Ukrainian society, which unfortunately are not fully done by the State. In fact, these organizations are doing a compensatory function, and notice, and you're removing them from the list of these organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u212	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u213	Yes, it's true that your rights are partly taken into account for educational organizations that have a license. But with regard to charitable organizations, the inclusion of them in the corresponding list of categories of benefits may unfortunately lead to rental abuse. Because it's actually hard to verify where there is a real charity and where there is a fictitious or social organization. That's why we turned it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u214	Are you insisting on voting for this amendment? Amendment No. 47 of the Constancewicz People's Deputies in order to take it into account in general. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:04]] For-45 The decision is not taken. People's MP, Greeb. Which direction do you insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u215	80, 81.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u216	Please turn on the microphone. No. 80. And then we move on to the vote, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u217	It is proposed to remove the possibility of joining the rental company or structural unit only by order of the authorized authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u218	Microphone. You don't get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u219	I'm sorry. It is proposed to exclude the possibility of joining the owner of an enterprise or a structural unit under the authority of the authority authorized to manage the property. Why? Because an extra one might be a burden for the tenant first. On the other hand, there may be debts that will not be repaid before they are added to it. I'm asking you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u220	Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u221	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u222	The committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u223	Article 14 of the Rent Act provides for the order of cessation of business activities. It's a very specific procedure, and it works, so there's no particular point in changing it. In addition, the rental of the single property complex provides for the transfer of certain liabilities on these single assets.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u224	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? I'm betting on the vote number 80 of the people's representative of the Gryb. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[13:33:52]] For-29 The decision is not taken. Amendment 81, People's Deputy Grib. Last update. Then we go to the vote. National Deputy Gribe, are you insisting on 81st?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u225	You know, you can stop insisting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u226	You don't get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u227	I'm saying we can stop insisting, because it's all the same result. Colleagues, well, I'm asking you very much, please look at the revisions, they only allow you to continue to work more effectively. I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u228	I'll bet you vote number 81. The committee didn't support her, do I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u229	I didn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u230	Please identify and vote. [[13:34:45.]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law on State and Municipal Property Rental (registration No. 1055-1). Please prepare for the vote. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Ready to vote? Please support and vote? [[13:35:43]] For 263 Against 0, hold on to 36. Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Thank you. We move on to the next issue of agenda: this is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure transparency of the ownership of software providers of multichannel digital broadcasts with national coverage (registration number 2035). A word for the report. Keep your distance, colleagues, there's very little right here. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Tkachenko Alexandro Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u231	Thank you, colleagues. We have worked hard on this draft law in the second reading, including the vast majority of rights. There are only two rejected committees left. I'd like to remind everyone what this is about. Over 40 percent of the population, and then there'll be more, they get a TV signal from what's called digital software, it's free television, it's on the air. So far, we don't know for the last nine years who owns the company that provides the service. There have been rumors before that it was the Yanukovich family. But we can only guess if we don't adopt this law. And this law actually applies to information security. And that is why it is important for us to understand and control those who will work on this service. Therefore, please support and vote in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u232	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are only two adjustments I understand. Amendment number one, Abdullin. Don't you insist? And it's number 12, Grissom. Don't you insist? Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Dear factions, please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws to ensure the transparency of the ownership of software providers of multi-channel digital television networks with national coverage (Registration No. 2035). Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:38:54]] For 248 Against - 7, holding - 35. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's move on to the next one. Show me the factions, please. 225 – "Serve of the People", "Paternal" – 4, "For the Future" – 11, non-fractional – 8, other political forces – 0. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of property rights (registration No. 1056-1). The report is given to a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Legal Policy of Stefanchuk Mikoliyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the Act of Ukraine amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of property rights. First of all, I would like to emphasize the purpose of this law. You know, today we have a lot of problems with raiders, especially this issue of strict protection of corporate rights and real estate. If we're talking about this law, its main goal is to reduce the number of raids, actually bring it to zero, and the second point is to reduce the costs that corporate owners and real estate owners have to bear to protect their property rights. The Committee considered the bill on 30.09.2019 at its meeting and, as a result of the Committee's consideration, recommended to the Supreme Council draft Law 1056, marking 1 of September 6, 2019, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u234	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're going to consider rights that have been rejected by the committee. Amendment number one, Fris. Don't insist. No. 2, Vlasenko. Don't insist. And Francis will insist on his work? Okay, thanks. The parishioner, number five. Don't insist. No. 6, Makarov. Don't insist. It doesn't, does it? You're not going to insist on editing? Thank you. Amendment number 10, Sobolev. You don't? 12, Chulak. 13, Sphenov. 14, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 16, Knyazevich. Don't insist. 17. Vlasenko. Would you please tell the people's honourable deputies that you're going to insist that we don't go all over the document? Will You Be? Please turn on Mikola's microphone, Alexiovich Stefanchuku. I mean, I don't think anyone's going to insist on editing, right? Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to Stefanchuku, but I ask the heads of factions to invite a colleague to the hall and prepare for the vote. Turn on Stefanchuku's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u235	Dear Mr. Head, during the committee's consideration, as certain amendments were also considered and with the participation of the drafters of the bill, the remedies that were rejected were rejected by the authors of the bill with the general concept. Because the general concept was developed in maximum social impact mode, taking into account the positions offered by the Ministry of Justice. So please, the co-authors that are in this law, please don't read out, because they rejected them by their own free will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u236	Ruslan Knyazevich, for reasons, or for editing? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u237	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, the honourable reporter. I really support what you said. The point is that my corrections are really written down as being rejected. I wouldn't say they're rejected because they've deleted the norm they've applied to. So you could say that they're essentially accounted for, just rejected editorially. That's why I'm taking these amendments off, and I'm basically supporting the bill, and I'm going to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u238	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your own. It's from Fris's motive. Fries with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u239	Thank you, Mr. Head. I would like to thank the National Deputies for their comments on the committee. It's really a very important bill, and this bill and I have worked with Mr. Nicholas for a very long time, and it's fruitful, and we've considered every concrete amendment. This bill is designed to make it impossible for raiders, to a greater extent with regard to corporate rights that belong to our citizens, foreigners and other legal persons of foreign law. In view of this, I ask you to support this bill, which is really important, it will give public registration tools to ensure the rights of citizens. And the main thing is, he's going to take those dishonest state registrars, which tended to have this whole negative effect on property rights and corporate rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u240	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats in the hall, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending certain acts of Ukraine concerning the protection of property rights (registration No. 1056-1). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:45:44]] For 284. Against zero, hold on to four. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Do you want to show the factions? Show me the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" is 220, "The Opposition Platform – For Life" – 9, "European Solidarity" – 18, "The Fatherhood" – 5, "For the Future" – 8, "The Voice" – 15, "the Non-Factional" – 9. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. If you don't want to break up, there's a very small number of rights. Draft Law on Material Responsibility of Military Servants and Some Others (second reading) (Registration No. 1225) Reported to the head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee of Kopitin Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u241	Good day, chairman, good day, colleagues! Accordingly, the committee prepared for second reading and, at its meeting on October 2, 19th, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Material Responsibility of Military Servants and Some Other Persons (registration number 1225). I recall that the bill is designed to bring the legal norms of the institution of material responsibility of military personnel, members of the military and the chief of staff, military and reserve forces in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, according to article 92 of which the rights, freedoms and responsibilities of a person and the principles of legal responsibility of a person can only be determined by the laws of Ukraine. During the drafting of the bill, 33 proposals were made for the second reading by law-makers, of which 18 are fully counted, 7 are partially counted, and one is edited and 7 is rejected. The final draft of the bill partly takes into account the comments and proposals of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. As a result of the draft bill, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in second reading and in general, taking into account editorial and technical legal rights. If there are no comments, please support me very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u242	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're going to consider rights that have not been considered by the committee. There's only seven of them, if I'm not mistaken. Zabrodsky, do you insist? Thank you. You're not going to insist on any direction? National Deputy Heratchenko, will you insist on your actions? Colleagues, let's get to the vote. Please take your seats. With the motive of a minute, Zabrodsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u243	I would like to thank the committee once again for their fruitful work on this law. This is really another step toward European defence legislation and this is really another step to improve the position and system of material responsibility of our military personnel. Thank you again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u244	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall and prepare for the vote. Kostenko, Voice, with motive. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u245	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The bill proposed for consideration is called upon to bring to the requirements of the Constitution the regulation of relations in the field of material liability of military personnel. Today, this responsibility has been determined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of the year 95. However, according to article 2 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the rights, freedoms, and duties of man and citizen, as well as the principles of legal responsibility, individuals can be determined only by the laws of Ukraine. The draft law also brings into line with current legislation certain aspects of the material responsibility of military personnel whose regulation is now obsolete. The draft law was drafted by the Committee on Safety, Defence and Development and recommended for adoption in a second reading. The project is important for the military formations of Ukraine, so please support it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u246	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for acceptance in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law on the Material Responsibility of Military Servants and Some Other Persons (Registration No. 1225). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:50:52]] For 276 Against two, held on to eight. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. People's Party - 226, Opposition Platform - Life - 0, European Solidarity - 18, Fatherhood - 3, Future - 6, Voice - 15, non-factional - 8. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have a very small bill and a draft, so don't go away, please. Draft Act on Amendments to the Law on Military Duty and Military Service on the Improvement of Certain Issues by Citizens of the Military Service (Registration No. 1227). Reported to the head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee of Vereshuk Irina Andriyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u247	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected media outlets, respected Ukrainians! Your point is to propose a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. Accordingly, the committee prepared for second reading and, at its meeting on October 1, 2019, reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service to improve certain issues of the conduct of the citizens of the military service. During the drafting of the bill, 23 proposals were made for the second reading by legal entities, of which 9 were fully counted, 5 were partially counted, 3 were taken into account, and only 6 were rejected. The main legal administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is prepared for the second reading of the bill with observations that may be partially taken into account, namely: paragraph 2 of the proposals of the Chief Executive Office for the draft revision of section 2 of article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Obligation and Military Service on the replacement of the words "general educational institutions" with the words "general secondary education" in the draft; the proposal for the second reading of paragraph 8 on the replacement of the words "services of military personnel in military service and the service of years for the benefit of benefits of years and the appointment of pensions" in the words "counts to the benefit of the second paragraph for the benefit of the benefit of years and the appointment of pensions in the service of years for the benefit of benefits of years and the service of service of service of years for the benefit of pensions in the provision of the 24th draft article on the recruitment of the military title; So the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a second-reading bill, and in general, taking into account the above-mentioned observations of the General Legal Office and the relevant editorial and technical legal rights. I am very much asking you to support this bill, because it is very necessary, which the Ministry of Defence and all of our military personnel are waiting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u248	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is 6 rights or 7 rights. Please tell me, who insists on what they're doing? You're an outcast. Please turn on the van's microphone. And then we move on to. And so is Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u249	Nadajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. It is a good thing that material responsibility finally occurs in this Hall of the Supreme Council. But above all, let us say and demand the material responsibility of the authorities, the state to the military. There is no higher task for this, I believe, than the prestige of military service. Now, more specifically. The Basilk district, near us, will protect the Kyiv. There is a military garrison, a military unit — 1,000 134 military personnel in line for housing. None of them have any prospects. That's why I have a direct request from our entire faction, and I'm asking you to join the other national MPs. We need to adopt legislation, especially in the budget of 2020, a separate special programme on service housing and permanent housing for military personnel and family members. That's what's most important, I think, for the Supreme Council and for every MP who talks about defending the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u250	Thank you. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u251	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. I want to draw your attention to the fact that most of the amendments I've prepared with my colleagues have been taken into account by the profile committee, which we are very grateful for. And we want to point out that this may be the only case where the committee takes into account the opposition's revisions. It seems to me that this is the right thing to do, and especially when it comes to the Committee on Safety and Defence, because there are topics that unite the Hall, which is primarily the protection of national security and the defence of Ukraine. And in fact, it's important that the Council refused to worry, we started to prepare for the second reading of laws because of their improvement through the amendment mechanism. Our political power will not simply vote in favour of this bill, we support it, but we still refer to all the committees to remember the supervisory function of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, how the Cabinet of Ministers will then implement these laws, and what legal acts will be done to implement the bill, which is obviously awaiting the Armed Forces of Ukraine. We do not insist on voting on the three amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u252	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u253	We don't insist on the kind of changes that have been rejected, we agree with the argument here by the profiling committee. And once again, we urge the committees to consider amendments independently.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m0.u254	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Let's go to the vote. National deputies, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service to improve certain issues of the conduct of the citizens of the military service (registration 1227). Asking you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:57:22]] For 287 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. 229 – Servant of the People, Opposition Platform – For Life – 0, European Solidarity – 20, Fatherland – 4, For the Future – 8, Voice – 14, non-fractional – 12. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, we have two minutes left. I propose to conclude the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. I remind everyone that the evening meeting will begin at 4 p.m. Thank you.
