ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u1	Good morning! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, if you'd like to register, I'd like to conduct a registration. [[10:03:06]] 342 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today the closing session of the ninth session of the Supreme Council. It was a successful mid-term -- mid-year Ukrainian victory -- we're compiling and concluding this session on the eve of the festival of Vodhrest, which is called the Christian Christmas. And I want to welcome all the Ukrainians to the big holiday that concludes the New Year's-Christmas cycle. And, fellows, I have an offer, if there's no objection to going through "the hour of questions to the government today," half an hour of questions, as it's supposed to be, an hour of speeches, but we've been working without a break and done, the closure was done at the first hour of the day. I emphasize by going through all the procedures: both enquiries and interventions, but without interruptions. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Let's make a deal. Okay. Thank you very much. So, colleagues, according to the Rules, we have from 10 to 11 o'clock an hour of questions to the government. And I want to welcome Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Stepan Kubov and members of the Government of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And announcing it. Let's welcome them, colleagues. [[Applause]] A government that works hard for Ukraine. And I'm starting an hour of questions to the government. Same structure. Today, we will have Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Igor Stepanovich Nasalik, speaking from the government, for up to 15 minutes. Then questions from factions and groups and questions from MPs. And I invite Igor Stepanovich to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u2	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished members of the government, distinguished national deputies! I know you're always looking forward to a report from the Minister of Energy and the Coal Industry. So from the very beginning, I would like to ask you that in all the references that people's deputies make to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry regarding the economic activity of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, I should tell you that NAK Naftogaz Ukraine is not in the administration of the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry. Like you, we draw data from open sources, such as yours, and we keep an eye on the media. So the Ministry has no more information than any of you. With regard to the direct responsibility of the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, it is usually the functioning of the United Energy System of Ukraine. And I'd like to start today with, I guess, the very sensitive subject of electricity tariffs. If you see it, there are the basic components that affect the cost of electricity. On the graph you can see (please flip if you can) you can see it on the graph. It's a fuel component, including coal costs from 2016 to 2018. The 19th year has grown by almost 133 percent, and today it's worth 2,000,800 dollars. It's the same thing with gas. You see, over this period, the cost of gas has increased by 89 percent. On the next graph, you see inflation dynamics, which over the years ranged from 12 percent to 13.7 percent. In recent years it has been 9.8 and 7 tenths of a percent. Of course, wage increases have an impact, and it is clear from the chart that over the past three years, the wage in the energy sector has increased by 94 percent. Of course, an immediate question will arise, and how these basic economic factors could affect the cost of electricity. The Ministry of Energy, together with energy, has done a great deal of work in terms of optimising the market of Ukraine’s United Energy System, technical, scientific tasks. And we've probably managed, in spite of economic indicators, which is essentially not to change the cost of the main wholesale and market price indicator. Its growth was smaller, less orderly, than the inflationary processes that have taken place in our country, not to mention other factors that have affected it. However, the wholesale market price, like the main indicator, does not say anything to the consumer. What is the direct cost of the population? On the next graph, you can see how the cost of electricity has changed for the population of our country. So from 2017 to 2019, the increase was 5 percent, which is almost 1.5 percent every year, the price changed from 1 bracelet to 1.06 bracelets. And these are all the theories that energy has gone into the consumer's pocket, into the population pocket, well, there's no basis. Interesting, of course -- everything is defined in comparison -- and interesting is, and how are the prices for the population consistent with the prices of the former countries of the Soviet Union and European prices in general? On the graph you see that the first place at the smallest price is Ukraine itself, we've moved all the prices in the bracelet, and this price is 1.06; for Belarus, this price is 2.5 times more for the consumer, for Russia -- 2.6 times more; if you want to imagine yourself as German, you're going to have to pay another 10 times as much. I said on salary that the salary growth was 94 percent, 94 percent. Now you see on the second consumption schedule of the industrial sector, which is the economic sector of our state. Despite all the problems that there is, price policy has made up the smallest price policy in all European countries and post - Soviet countries, its price has been 1.6 bracelets. However, this picture is completely the opposite of consumption. If you see, the industry in European countries pays twice as much as the population pays, especially the German industry pays 5 dollars and the population pays 10 dollars. We have both the population, and industry pays less than it does in European countries and in post-Radians. And of course, these are great conditions to create investment conditions for our nation's capital, because the price of electricity in different productions is between 20 percent and 60 percent. The price of electricity in Ukraine is between 20 and 40 percent in the same canals or water supply that is formed in tariffs. The next table is a table for the export of electricity outside our country, mainly to the European Union. If you can see, as early as 2015, we were importing Russian electricity within 2.1 billion. Since 2016, not only do we increase our exports by 25 percent, but we increase our exports by almost every year. Many questions were asked: Is it convenient for Ukraine to create an export operation of electricity at all? I have to say that we export it at the price of the ORC, and the price of the ORC not only holds the grant certificates, which is why we keep the population, but there are all the investment projects about the generating companies. So, let's say, by exporting electricity, we're covering these problems in our country by the external consumer. You know, I feel differently when in the media, analysts analyze the work of Ukraine's unified energy system. Usually, the professional level of these analysts is so high that they're confused between watts and volts and subsidies and grant certificates, not to mention the voltage class and the technology of nuclear power generation. But I'm very sorry when Parliamentary colleagues, the more the Ministry colleagues, go to the media, talk about the fact that the Ministry didn't hit the finger to the finger in order to recapture the blocks. On this graph, you see the remodeling of thermal power plants in Ukraine, and the process of the ministry began in May 2016. I would like to stress: in May 2016, that is, a month later, when the new government came to meet its obligations. So today, as you can see from the table, we've been able to rewire the four clusters of the Dragon's TES and the Triple's TES. In this regard, I want to thank the DITEK, who is involved in the remodeling of the blocks, and today, the seventh, eighth, ninth, blocks of the Transnistrian TES are equipped. For the plan of 2019, we still have complete reconfiguration of the blocks on the Tripoli TES, the first and third blocks, the Dniproenergo, the tenth block, and the Crivorosection TES, the first block. So in three years, Ukraine has gained an additional capacity in the gas group of almost 300,000 megawatts, and in 2019 it expects an additional thousand megawatts, which is commensurate with the work of the atomic block. Yes, we have problems, particularly those related to Lugansk TEZ, with the supply of electricity there, and the Russians have responded very actively. Literally last year, after the lack of anthracite coal, we moved on to supply gas to this TES, but problems in the work of a unified energy system, I hope you don't feel it or feel it. Donbasenergo, who was one of the large, powerful electric power producers who signed a contract for more than $800 million in Donbasenergo equipment last year. What have we learned from the fact that the blocks are remodeled? On the graph, you see, we took the state heat station PAT "Centrenergo." If we consumed 2.2 million tons of anthracite coal in 2016, it was 0.8 in the 18th, 0.4 in 2017, and in the forecast balance and in the fuel structure of the centrenergo PAT for 2019, there is no provision for the consumption of anthracite coal. Ukraine in general, starting in 2016, has decreased, I want to emphasize, reduced the consumption of anthracite coal from 10.5 million to 3.9 million tons. We have good hydropower in this regard. We finished work on the third hydroaggregate, and by 2019 the fourth hydroaggregate will be launched. The launch of these hydroaggregates has enabled each of them to save up to 220 million cubic feet [220 million cu m] of gas. It's an interesting position, and it's probably interested in all the people's deputies, it's the work of our nation's atomic complex. If you are. It produces almost 60 percent of all electricity produced. On the graph, you see consumption and diversification of nuclear fuel supply to our nation. If the US Westinghouse supplied only 15 percent of nuclear fuel to Ukraine in 2016, the diversification has been achieved today by 46 percent of Westinghouse and 54 percent of Russia's TWEL. According to the strategy of developing the nuclear industry of our state, you see on this graph, already in 2021, the supply from Westinghouse will be entirely larger in percentage terms than in Russian, from Russian TWEL. However, we went another way. In all the years of independence, Ukraine has failed to build any nuclear facility. In the last three years, we have started building four nuclear facilities. One is the construction of a nuclear fuel plant in Ukraine. We've completely completed the negotiation process, got the full consent of Westinghouse to its technology. And on the graph, you can see that, literally after three years, we can complete the entire nuclear fuel production process in our country. That is, outside our nation will be preserved only by the enrichment of uranium, because we cannot conduct it because we have lost the status of the nuclear power. The second nuclear facility is an investment project by the Energy City of Ukraine-Europe. Since Friday's announced competition, I will not talk about the amount of work that's been done to announce this competition and start implementing it because the energy sphere is so sensitive that any information in the media is going to have a huge external impact so that these projects don't happen. But so far, a project has been announced for the investment project "The Energy City of Ukraine – the European Union". What does this project do? This project not only provides an increase in electricity exports in order, but enables the construction of the third hop block in 2025 to be completed in 2026 and the completion of the fourth block of the hop nuclear power plant in 2026. A great deal of work has been done to create a centralized nuclear fuel depot for the BBR reactors of domestic nuclear power plants. This was a very sensitive position for us, because Ukraine spends $200 million just to send sent nuclear fuel to the Russian Federation. Work on this subject has been able to start since 2016. The overall project is 37 billion. And you should note and say that no budget is available for all the nuclear facilities in which the work is being carried out. All of this is from investment or from credit. The technology of nuclear fuel production is very interesting and new to our nation. In the West, you can see that in the first quarter of 2020, we're going to put an end to this process. I'd like to be given four more minutes, I'd like to pause a little bit on the coal industry that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u3	Okay. Add 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u4	The biggest disaster and the biggest problem in our country is coal industry. And of course, I'm not going to build an illusion that it's going to change significantly if it doesn't have money. Once again, I want to say from this high rostrum: without investing in the production process, coal reform is impossible. You will immediately ask: Is it economically interesting to invest money in the coal industry? On the graph, you can see: the truths and the lies in 2017 we were able to take a loan of 300 million dollars. This is because carbon debt is 18 billion. So these 300 million gave us the opportunity to run 7 lavas, which saved almost a quarter, and the economic result in 2 years was 4.2 billion dollars, with 300 million to 4 billion dollars. Did the coal industry get out of this? No, because our budget was cut, and 300 million of us were guilty, and we remained guilty. The ministry has fully developed all the necessary plan to make a coal sector. And now you're looking at a graph of 10 lavas that need to be financed, which are going to have the same financial effect. The problem is 2 billion dollars that we can't take on investment or credit. And we're counting on the budget. If this cost is invested, and on the next graph you see, Ukraine won't need any budget support by the end of the year, and the total revenue it's going to get is 1.7 billion. But the funding wasn't about modernization, and this was about mine safety, not in 16th, not in 17th, not in 18th and not in 19th. I'm done. If you see a crisis, that is how it is. And speaking to the national MPs, I'd like to ask you to support the initiative of both Mishi Bondar and Arthur to put into order the day-to-day issue concerning mines. If we don't turn it on, the sinking process will go in four or five hours a day, the mines can be practically flooded. To be completed. Ukraine has a strategy. A strategy that is fully supported by our European partners, analysts and is expressed in the development of our nation by 2035. The Ministry's task is to get as far away from the business as possible and to do everything possible to create a legal and regulatory framework for the implementation of the strategy. To be completed. The Ukrainians had a good saying: The horse was the farmer’s most work, but the horse received neither applause nor literacy nor commendation. Ukraine’s energy sector is probably the only one in Ukraine that has preserved both scientific potential and human potential, and professional potential. So when I analyzed the work of the energy sector, I wanted it to be objective. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u5	Thank you. Colleagues, so we move on to questions from groups and factions. And I ask everyone who intends to ask a question to the government to participate in the record. And then, as always, there will be speeches by the deputies. So please record and report to those who wish to ask questions. Please. The first question will be from the Radical Party. Amelchenko Vasil Vasilovich is handing over Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u6	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. I have a question for the government. How did you allow such a memorandum to be signed with the International Monetary Fund, which provides several stages of additional increases in gas prices for the population, which provides that drug purchases will again be made by international purchasing organisations instead of ILO; refusal to create a second-level pension system; commitment to reduce subsidies in the event of a deficit? How did you allow the sale of state enterprises and appointments to those remaining, the vast majority of foreigners, in the oversight of the council? Those commitments, which are written and signed by the government, the President and the National Bank, are antisocial, it is against the interests of Ukrainian society. Why don't you pursue a policy aimed at investing, creating jobs, as proposed by the Radical Party team? Why don't you raise social standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen of the committee, this is a very important question from the point of view of assessing the activity and developing the economy on an innovative investment and efficient basis over the past four years. First of all, I want to say that GDP is increasing eleven blocks in a row. The forecast for 2018 is over 3 percent. Inflation is less than 10 percent. This is the lowest rate in five years. I want to say that the increase in Ukrainian wages exceeded inflation rates, and by November the average wage had increased by 22.5 percent. With regard to cooperation with international institutions, financial institutions, this is a consistent policy that is transparent today. Secondly, we discussed several times in both the session hall and the Conciliation Council, and in the open air of the government, where there are clear policy-making principles for cooperation with international financial organizations. What did this allow? From the perspective of the independent regulator of the National Bank of Ukraine, you listened yesterday. And we're seeing the growth of gold reserves, we're seeing today's steady economic growth, we're seeing steady economic growth, we're seeing steady wage growth. Yes, there are many flaws. Yes, there are many challenges. But you and I have a permanent dialogue, and you and I have constant communication. And we're ready for a discussion that is absolutely generating the truth. We will continue to make commitments to external economic activity because they allow today to support Ukraine in a secure manner, according to sanctions against the Russian Federation, which have demonstrated today the effective influence and potential for development during the period of military aggression.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u8	Please finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u9	During the period of military aggression, the annexation of Crimea allowed Ukraine to show how a strong state, a State supported by the European Union, is now being supported by the world’s first seven and twentieth countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u10	Thank you. Please, from Rebirth Group Valery Pisarenko. Please, Mr. Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u11	Thank you. I have two questions. First of all, I'd like to hear again from the government that the government will continue to support infrastructure projects. I'm primarily interested in projects in the city of Kharkiv, which is the further construction of two subway stations: "Drežinska" and "Odeska". I hope that the experience that we're showing in Kharkiv today is the only city that's rapidly developing in infrastructure -- I hope that the government will continue to support the projects that we have and demonstrate, and we're all suggesting that we take an example from the city. The other one. I would like to ask, including what the government is planning to do with the problem of labour migration. The Ministry of Social Policy has given us figures that between 7 million and 9 million of our citizens are already working abroad. Next year PricewaterhouseCoopers says we'll be the first in the world to lose our jobs. How are we going to develop an economy if we don't have anyone to work with? What are the government’s plans in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u12	I would like to say that, on behalf of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, on behalf of the Government, I assure you that the government remains committed earlier. These are 5 priorities: economic growth; upgrading of infrastructure; continued decentralization; reform in education; health; and the security of citizens and the state. As for the regional projects you're talking about, I want to say that the efficiency of decentralization and the support of regional investment projects for 2019 is 12.8 billion dollars. The financial resources of the local budgets are $568.7 billion, plus 15.3 billion by 2018. What I'm saying is that the local budget revenue is 287,3 billion plus 37.5 billion. What are those numbers? These are figures that show a real increase in support of public, international and regional investment projects. As for the specific bills you were talking about, about the Harks. They are absolutely well-known in government, they are working today, and they will be supported by co-financing principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u13	Thank you. Please ask the next question of the opposition block faction. Mikhail Papiev is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u14	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy, Jooff.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, this is a matter of factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u16	Honorable members of the government, revered Stephen Ivanovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I don't have one. Please ask the faction. Question from the faction, please. Dear colleagues, find out who is asking each other questions. And please ask the People's Front faction now. There, thank God, there is no problem in asking questions from the faction. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u18	Good afternoon, colleagues! I have a question for Mr. Negad. Viacheslav Andronović, the People's Front, has always supported the reform of the decentralization of power in Ukraine and the creation of the united territorial communities, which was launched in 2014 by the government of Arsenija Yatsenuk. In December of last year, during the Third Forum of the United Territorial Communities, we saw the Prime Minister's presentation on the second stage of this reform, during which we must unite all communities without so - called white spots. In parallel, laws have been registered in the Council on changes in the administration regarding the number of areas. And so the voters of the Chernobyl region, in particular the Watchtower region, are experiencing a lot because there is little information. Please tell me what the Supreme Council should do about the change in administration, and with what results should the 2020 local elections have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u19	Good afternoon! And thank you for asking. I would like to take this opportunity to thank both the People's Front factions and the entire Supreme Council, the People's Deputies for their active support throughout the decentralization reform we call the reform of local self-government. Now, indeed, we are now approaching a time when we must take decisive action. Because our main goal is for the elections, for the next local elections to take place in 2020, to take place on the new territorial basis of communities and districts. Because with the formation of united territorial communities, and now 800 already, 76, and many still waiting for the election decision of the CLTC, we are faced with a situation where the vast majority of the powers go to local self - government. At the same time, the existing administrative and territorial system, which was still formed in the Soviet Union's time, is not responding to those needs today. And, of course, we have to make some important decisions, and not only do we need to decide on the principle of an administrator, but we also need to address the issues related to the changes to the Constitution. And we hoped that Parliament would decide on this and leave behind a legal opportunity to make changes in this call, but it's up to you. It's about the Sokyrians you mentioned. There is an appointment of the Prime Minister from yesterday, where it is decided to conduct two areas of the region of Cherniewec, on the activity or inactivity of the district administrations, at which the decision is to be made that they, in the opinion and locals, were there, met with them, effectively blocked the decentralization process. That's why I hope again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u20	One minute, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u21	I hope that Parliament will continue to support the decentralization process, and the next session will become such a turntable, a turntable, and we hope that a new phase of decentralization in Ukraine will be presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u22	Thank you. Please, from the "Fatherland" faction, Sergey Eutuszek. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u23	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. I really want to use an open microphone and go to the President of Ukraine, the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Ukrainian Parliament. Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, you too, because you can also solve this issue. The Plains region, the Plains region, is famous for its guerrilla movement. Because the first hundred of the Ukrainian rebel armies were based on the Plains. For 100 days now, 100 days in the Office of the President is a submission approved by the Provincial District Administration, its commission for the award of the Bakunz Stepan Sidorovich, Kiriluk Vasil Makarovich, Croto of Joseph Timothyovich. These people. These are the ones that, unfortunately, are still more faithful, fortunately, alive, but unfortunately, very few are now. I ask you very much, take care of yourself, Mr. President, of your professional functions, not your choices. Because it's true patriotism, not what you hang on the decks. Please, these people have very little to live for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u24	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u25	Dear Mr. Sergio, I want to thank you. This is a very important question. It's important from the point of view and values of the development of Ukrainian statehood, and it's important today in joint action, for which I want to thank both the Supreme Council and the government and the President. You know that the President of Ukraine, both the Supreme Council and the Government of Ukraine, refer to the rebel army with great respect, respect and gratitude. This was on a number of occasions at the level of decision-making and government, and the Supreme Council, and the President's is presented: both by reference, and by reference, and by thanks, and by social support, and by another aspect. I will address your address today with the Supreme Council to the President's Administration and the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u26	Thank you, Prime Minister. And the next question, please, is from the Peter Dust Block, Mr. Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u27	I would like to draw the attention of the government that today the question of the energy supply of utilities remains unresolved. And above all, it's a heating company and a water canal. So this question needs to be settled. And the next. In fact, from January 1st, the NCREKP cancelled the overnight rate. for legal persons, and this is motivated by the fact that this will additionally receive almost 3 billion dollars. I want to point out that in fact, over the last few years, a lot of O.T.G. has done external lighting. And there's a series of water canals, including the Hmelnickwater Channel, where three stations are raised, taking water 30 kilometers away. You know, this is going to increase the tariff almost four times, because the night tariff actually allowed the tanks to be filled and the water to be delivered all day. I think we need to look at the complex question of the night-to-night tariff for outdoor lighting and water-canals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u28	Please give the floor to the minister of profile, Mr. Nasalik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u29	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, what I want to say is that the implementation phase of the Power Market Act is in place and, as planned, it should be fully operational in July 2019. Since January 1, the first stage has gone, and he predicts, first of all, the distribution of electricity and its value. Practices that no one pays for electricity anymore will not. Moreover, for a transitional period, a structure created by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine called the "last-hope provider" is performed by Ukriinterenergo. All consumers who have failed or have not submitted tenders for electricity supply contracts can turn to it, in truth, the cost of electricity there is higher than 1.25 percent. I fully share with you about nothing tariff and the decision of the NCRECR on its differentiation. But on the other hand, I'm going to say that if the water canals go into the congruent consumption of electricity, they're going to use the right energy management system, and they're not actually hearing anything, and I'm telling you that the city's head was an ex who spent eight years in water and water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u30	Thank you. Please, next question from the Self-Help faction, Mrs. Irina Sisoyenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u31	Irina Sisoyenko, Self-Help Unit. Since January 1st of this year, due to inactivity, irresponsibility, because of the negligence of the government in Ukraine, transplant operations have been blocked. Parliament passed a new law last year that should have worked since January 1st, but because the government has not prepared mechanisms for the implementation of this law and out of the 29 legal acts that have all been approved by one, today in Ukraine the transplant system does not work. A few children are waiting for their lives to be saved and a family transplant is to be made. It's a liver transplant, a kidney transplant, but unfortunately, because there's a legislative collapse today, they're afraid to go into the operating room so they won't be called "black" transplantologists and their life-saving activities didn't violate criminal matters. I have a question. Please tell us why neither the MOH’s management nor its management.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u32	Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u33	Why is the MOH leadership, why does the Prime Minister not come to Parliament and ask for a remedy and an immediate vote in favour of abolishing this law? When will the transplant issue be unlocked?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u34	Please, Mr. Kovtenko, Deputy Minister of Health, answers your question. Covtonjuk, I'm sorry, Mr. Covtonjuk. Please. Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u35	Thank you. Paul Covtonjuk is the Deputy Minister of Health. First of all, I want to make it very clear that in no way is the transplant in Ukraine blocked or suspended. There is a law in force in Ukraine that has the order of transplantation, which is valid and it works. With regard to the new Transplant Act, which was adopted last year and which envisions the construction of a new system, including an electronic transplant registry and another funding model, there is a real need for separate standards to be postponed. The decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which temporarily regulates these rules, is adopted and allows us to continue our work. In particular, services were purchased from developing an electronic transplant registry, including the purchase of equipment for those facilities that would start doing it first, and the work was ongoing. And we are also very much asking Parliament to adopt amendments to this new law to ensure that individual situations that cannot be physically executed in the given terms are continued. We very much hope that the profile committee will be able to review and agree on the project already ready, agreed by the Ministry, and it will be put out as soon as possible. In doing so, I would like to ask you once again not to be afraid, especially among medical personnel, of violating any of their standards. They don't violate any of the norms by performing a transplant, they break the rules without carrying it out, because the order of transplantation is valid. And I ask this particular position to be emphasized, including in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u36	Thank you, Mr. Covtonjuk. And a minute to answer for this answer is given to Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Kubi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u37	This is absolutely the right and logical question. It takes a second time. I am your question, from your faction, and the question on the Conciliation Council, we consider it a parliamentary request from the faction. I would ask the Ministry of Health to respond within 10 days, specifically on each of the block systems that you have installed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u38	Thank you for the detail, dear colleague. And we have two more questions. Please, Mr. Papiev. It was written by the factions of the Opposition Block. And I haven't been able to log in yet, the will of the people group, Sergey Shahov later. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u39	Thank you. I have a question for Stepan Ivanovich Kubi. It's the question that Julius Yakovitch Yoffe wanted to ask. This is a person who has experienced 30 years of underground training as director of the largest mine. And, you know, there's this impression that the government is doing everything today to destroy Ukraine's coal sector in the Pennsylvania industry, they're probably creating jobs outside of Ukraine in America. As far as my question is concerned, I would like an answer from Stepan Ivanovich. We have 33 government mines, 25 of them working. Of these 25's, 20's got a warning that January 31st they're going to turn off the lights. That's 40,000 people. If this is not turned off, all financing will be equal until August of this year, and again in August, these 40,000 Ukrainian miners and their families will remain on the street. When you do work for Ukrainian businesses and for the Ukrainian economy, not for the Ukrainian economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u40	Please, Mr. Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, the question has two blocks. The first block, I want to say that over the last 30 years, 27 years of modernization and with infrastructure changes in efficiency and the formation of competitive prices in Ukraine's mines, unfortunately, has not happened. Government, governments have seen this issue as a priority over the past five years, but it is not a simple one and a situation that has arisen especially in eastern Ukraine. First. This issue has been discussed repeatedly in this sessional room and in a government where a clear program of comprehensive action is taken to get out of the situation. After the second block of specifics across each mine, I will ask Mr. Nasalik to give the floor to the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u42	Please, Mr. Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u43	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. I was speaking today, and I want to answer your question today. Without funding, the coal industry has no prospects. The Ministry has developed all the necessary documentation that has been agreed upon by all the benches. You, Mr. Yooffe, are familiar with her. In all the lavas, the necessary funding is 2 billion dollars in all mines. If this funding goes through, I've shown on today's schedule that the coal sector won't need a grant for its funding. And coal production will increase by almost 60 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u44	Thank you. And please, the last question from groups and factions is Sergey Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u45	People's Will Group, Sergey Shahov, political force "Our End". Dear Stephen Ivanovich, it is no secret that in the state of 1 million 700,000 displaced persons who have left their homes, apartments have abandoned what they have done in their lifetime, jobs, and, above all, the graves of their parents, loved ones and relatives. Today these people are in trouble. For your information, there was a potato on the New Year’s table with a settler when one of the ministers could not eat with a shovel of red icry and black icry. There's regulation 280, which assigns 25 million dollars to the building of the entire apartment. That won't be enough for the Cabinet of Ministers. We demand, because I am the mover myself, to immediately add a billion dollars to this decision, because at the movie you found a billion dollars, for the officials, for the treatment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u46	Please, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u47	A billion dollars for medical officials have been found, and for the displaced people who are in trouble today, they are still called VPOs. And the guys and the girls who protected our nation, they're only 1,000, 334 people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u48	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u49	Mr. People’s Deputy, regarding the allocated funds that you have mentioned, they are formed in the Supreme Council Hall when the budget for 2019 was approved. Along with professional committees and responsibility. Second position on this. They're displaced persons who were caused by Russian aggression. Several specific programmes have been developed by the Government and the Supreme Council in support of orphans and orphans, half orphans, displaced children, the formation of educational programmes, social programs and medical programmes and the provision of financial assistance. This is a question in the daily view of a specific minister, a specific official in the local authorities, military civil administrations, where you and I have passed the relevant law. Yes, this problem is not fully solved, but today we understand that the security and defence issues, the issue of displaced persons, the issue of social standards, the issue of hybrid war are issues that we are solving with you, and for which I want to thank you, in support of these programmes in the 2019 budget. It's about a specific social situation. I'll ask Minister Revou. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u50	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u51	The Honourable People's Deputies of Shahov, apart from the state spending on housing for displaced persons, we also use the funds that other countries do not provide as non-refundable aid. During 2017-2018, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, at the expense of international donors, was prepared and put into operation for almost thousands of displaced families, of which we informed the public. If you're interested in these numbers, we're ready to give them. Since last year, a new housing program has been introduced to provide housing for those displaced persons who, with weapons in their hands, are protecting our country. Because giving immediate accommodation to 1 million internally displaced persons is difficult enough. Obviously, the people who are fighting for our country against the separatists are fighting the aggressor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u52	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u53	I think they should have priority, and in this respect this year this program will continue. The only problem is, Mr. Shahov, that our budget request for 850 million dollars was ultimately only 40 or 20 times less budgeted. So if you're really worried about the movers, make a proposal to increase funding for this program. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we still have 15 minutes to ask questions from the Ukrainian national deputies. Please, please. 15 minutes. Please, National Deputy Palamarczuk Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u55	Please give Saul a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u56	Saul’s right to ask questions is passed on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u57	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. I have a question for Mr. Reva's Minister of Social Policy. Dear André Alexiyovich, when we voted on pension reform last year, a mandatory condition for voting, and that was, by the way, a compromise between the Supreme Council deputies, a significant part of it, and the government was the rule on the introduction of a mandatory accumulation system, starting on January 1, 2019. In addition, the reform voted was a norm that required the government to take all necessary steps to ensure that the mandatory accumulation of the pension system as a mandatory component and the essence of the pension reform started on January 1, 2019. Please inform the Ukrainian society that has been made in this case and how this reform is starting to work in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u58	Dear National Deputy Solovay, the Pension Reform Act was passed on October 3, 2017. And it really did have the norm that we should have submitted a bill on the introduction of the accrual pension system from January 1, 2019. What happened was real. A few months earlier, you and a group of national deputies of only 57 people had submitted Bill 6677 on a general public storage system. What options have we had in coming out of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? We didn't have the right to file a bill after October. And that's why we've talked to you and we've come up with a compromise that the government agrees to your bill if you change it even before the first reading. Your Bill 6677 was passed by a government committee, was approved and ready to be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, he is not even considered in the first reading. Why did this happen? Let's ask who's organizing the consideration of these bills. Without the law approved by the Supreme Council, it is impossible to introduce this system. So, please, today's responsibility is on your side. We are ready to support the introduction of the accumulation system if the Supreme Council of Ukraine does so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u59	The next question is the People's Deputy of Dobrodomov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u60	I ask you to pass the word to Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u61	Dear government officials, good afternoon! Oleg Musei, National Control MP. I'm asking you to answer, probably the First Vice Prime Minister, who is responsible for regulating gas prices and government consumption standards. On a previous request to the government, the Prime Minister publicly promised that gas prices would be raised by only 20 per cent. Why do you manipulate the Ukrainian people and think they're idiots? I'm showing you a fresh payment that came to the pensioners in Kiev who don't have counters: gas prices have been raised by 320 percent to manipulate consumption standards. You've raised consumption rates and you're not going to talk about it, and people actually have to pay 320 percent of the price of gas? Do you really think of the Ukrainian people as who? Get in the pocket of the mercenaries!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u62	Please respond. Please, Mr. Kubi, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u63	I'll tell you. Dear colleagues, yes, this is really the second question asked. I'm asking accordingly. 3 ministries provide social standards of consumption, where there is a regional aspect and where there is a question of the Ministry of Energy, including the question of joint decisions of the independent regulator of the NCRECR, to accept as a parliamentary request and, literally, according to valid standards, to give an appropriate answer to the national MP of Musia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u64	Thank you. And the next question is the national deputy of Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u65	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Questions to the Minister of Social Policy of Reva. Please tell me, how can a displaced person survive on 442 bracelets? You go out to the people and see what people are doing today. You see people die of measles, tuberculosis, AIDS, you see people die from hunger when you can't eat! So once again, give people jobs, give people where they live, let people develop normally today, let young people not leave our country today. You don't have to sit there today, get your ass across from your chair, go to the people, and talk to the people! Can you hear me or not? I'm out of the nation, I'm out of Lugansk, where the war is going, and I talk to people every day. In Severodonetsk, Bilovodsk exceeds the number of migrants 2.5 times. Please, there is not enough land to build social housing. Some 225,000 buildings were built in Georgia. Why is this not being built in Ukraine? One more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleague, we're all of the people, but that doesn't give us the right to use expressive language when asking questions. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u67	I think that those who have left the nation have really left the nation, and they do not use the expressions that we hear today. But I want to say about 442 bracelets. 442 bracelets are provided to people of working age who do not work at all. The reason for this may vary, and so it is only for six months. In general, people of working age have to work – this is the main requirement of any law. So if we want people to live and work properly, they have to have jobs and work first. Please, we have the bill submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If a great political power like "Our Land" supports them, I hope we can fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u68	Thank you. Please, the next question is Barna's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u69	..representatives of the government. First of all, I'd like to thank that committee for checking for fraud, but I'd like to speed up testing them for harassment in the form of hundreds of thousands of fines imposed on non-profit gas consumers -- medical institutions, cultures, schools, entrepreneurs, for the seemingly inconvenient beliefs of counters. And a question to the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Health. At the initiative of the President, rural reform is under way. In addition, I do not understand why the second year in treasury health accounts is cost - free and neither equipment nor ambulances are purchased, which are already providing services, not just new ones, but all outpatients who provide services. Because it is not only where new clinics are being built that people need to take care of their health.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u70	Please turn on Mr. Negoda's microphone, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Health, together with the district authorities, is currently working hard to form a rural health network. This is an extremely important issue in order to improve the quality of rural services. In Ukraine, the first 517 new rural clinics have been built, 10 of them have already been put into operation in Kirovgrad, and 688 of these facilities have been developed and formed in collaboration with the MoH. Regarding cars, I would like to inform you that, according to the information gathered, some 514 service cars are now being purchased for family doctors, and there is support, of course, that is mainly the state budget, as well as for the support of the World Bank and others, a corresponding technical task has been developed to implement also in telemedicine clinics. So the work goes on, but it needs to work for the people's deputies, especially the majors, with the district government that are practically implementing this task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u72	Thank you. And the next question. People's MP Schwerk's handing over.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u73	Please give the floor to the colleague of Sporish Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u74	John Sporish, please. Ivan Sporish asks a question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u75	Ivan Sporish, 15th District. It's vinyl. Of course, that's more of a question before NAC Naftogazu. But, Stepan Ivanovich, I think. I'd like to ask you this question, because on Winnitzin we have the Chernivci, where the pipelines are already being tricked and the internal and so forth lines are about 97 percent, 95 percent. Well, they've been there for eight years. I know Mr. Kistion knows this problem. It's been eight years. They'll be out soon. It's coming soon. They can get ruined. So please, let's do something. It's a half-price of one of the Naftogazu NAC employees -- and you can already get this high pressure up to two, three, four kilometers up and run these lines. I'm asking you a lot, it's small costs, but at the same time, there's some sort of determination, really, that blocks it all. I think we need to do everything we can to keep the lines from going wrong. I think there's a gas perspective, of course there is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u76	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important question. You know, the state-wide gasification program is in the government's constant perspective, and it's not been a year, especially for the last five years. Second thing I want to say. In order to complete that 3-5 percent addition of gasification and connect the system to the network, because there is a utility system, there is a private system, there is a public system, we have to anticipate together the changes in the budget in the first half of the year, and vote accordingly in this room for change, and finish this project. I know that there was a proper assignment for the relevant ministries and a conversation with NAK Naftogaz about the completion of the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, the next question is the people's representative of Teteruk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u79	Andrew Teteruk, People's Front. I have a question for Mr. Omelian's Minister of Infrastructure. Even zealous pessimists see that we are building roads and that more and more Ukraine is like roads to our European partners. At the same time, I am concerned about the proper production of these Ukrainian roads. And I'm asking in our Kabmin, do you personally have a developed mechanism to control the quality of the roads that are built at the expense of taxpayers? What guarantee is given to builders on these newly created or repaired roads? In case of improper quality, whose account is repaired, do we have personal responsibility for proper control over the quality of road work? Who should personally answer: Mr. Novak, director of Ukraine, or who is personally responsible for making these roads quality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u80	Dear Mr. Andrey, I want to say that the roads in the 2019 budget are 55.6 billion dollars, that's 7.9 billion dollars more than last year. The prime minister of the last session in the session hall said that it was a road fund of 50.4 billion dollars. This is a new possibility that will change both philosophy and transparency and projects that are urgent. At the same time, there are additional funds from international donors -- 4.6 billion dollars. Local road subsidies have been increased, and they account for 35 percent of the road fund minus liabilities -- that's 14.7 billion dollars. Road safety costs are 2.1 billion dollars, or 5 percent of the road fund, minus liabilities. These numbers and these standards we voted in this room. As for your question, Mr. Omelyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u81	And the final question, please, National Deputy Honcharenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry! I'm sorry, colleagues, but we already said so. Now is the word to Minister Omelyan, and then the question of the last Potter. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u82	Thank you. Thank you, distinguished national MPs! I wanted to thank you very much for the constant support of the People's Front, the other factions of the Parliament's infrastructure reforms that we are proposing. Indeed, thanks to your support, the road fund worked, and it worked brilliantly. But we understand that quality control is now number one so that taxpayers' money is not wasted. What's done? A five - level system of quality control at the level of Ukraine, the Ministry, the Cabinet of Ministers, law enforcement agencies, and public control is in place. It works effectively, but even more effective is the five- and ten-year warranty mechanism on roads made. Within this guarantee, companies should remove any detected defects at their own expense, i.e. extra expenses from their pockets. Taxpayers' pockets are not predictable. We see that these roads that we're building today are being built by modern technology, modern equipment, we're creating dozens and thousands of jobs all over Ukraine. So I'm confident that these drugs will serve people for decades to come, but there will certainly be constant total control as in state control.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u83	Thank you, colleagues. And the final question is Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich. He's handing over the potter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear Stepna Ivanovich, I have a request for your next question. There is such a road -- the state road of regional importance of R-33 Vinnica-Guysin-Split, and today it is in such a disgruntled state, especially the area between the largest northern towns of Odestina-Balto and Podilski. I have a great request for you to give us a commission that we may at least begin to rebuild this year, because the word "renovate" does not apply there, to rebuild the area of this road between Balta and Delilian, because this is a very important question for both the Attires, and especially the north attires, and for Winnitzkin, and the central part of Ukraine, because this is a very important transport corridor that leads to the ports of Attire. And I have been asked to give you an appropriate commission to do so this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u85	Dear Mr. Alexia, I want to say that this is a very important question. The other one. I was talking about the funds we approved together in the 19th year budget. This is the road you're talking about, this is the state-of-the-art meaning. There is now a list of priority routes and possibilities for funding budget expenditure in the 19th year. We will also take your request into account, in conjunction with the relevant profiling committee and Ukraine, by the local authorities, to try to address this issue within the allocated resources of the 19th budget, and perhaps through co-financing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u86	Thank you, Mr. Stephen. We have one and a half minutes left for the closing statement, and we're finishing "the hour of questions to the government." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u87	Dear Mr. Andrey, distinguished national deputies, first of all, I want to thank you for the work we've done with you during an important period. I would therefore like to thank you for supporting the reform initiatives of the Government, the President of Ukraine and the common laws that we have adopted. A number of dozens of laws have allowed us today to confirm our joint effective activity. I would like to thank you for this and continue our work together. At the same time, I have the opportunity today, Your Honor Andry Volodymyrovich, to welcome from you the Hero of Ukraine the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine Vladimir Seminovich Stelmacha, to a man who is now 80 years old. Ukraine’s hero, who has put great effort into developing our financial system, is the development of our statehood. And at the same time welcome you, with the great festival of Vodhrest, as the people are accustomed to say - Jordan, where the Holy Dedication, which we celebrate as a sign of unity with the Lord Jesus Christ, who accepted baptism, especially in the year we created the Orthodox Church of Ukraine. Thank you all for working together. Christ was born!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u88	Let's celebrate him! Thank you, dear colleagues from the government. But I remind you that today at 1 p.m., there will be the closing of our age - old ninth session of Parliament of this convening, so we are waiting for you back in the hall. And now I'm going to call it an hour of questions to the government. Thank you for a meaningful, thorough discussion. And, colleagues, let's move on to the next item of the agenda: reading queries from the national MPs. And I invite Irina Heratchenko, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to read out the questions of the National Deputies. I remind you, after them, there will be speeches. So immediately after the questions are read, there will be statements. For whoever intends to take part in the speeches by the national MPs, be in the hall at 11:35 in order to participate in the recording.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u89	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u90	At one, closing at one, I remind you. We're just taking a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u91	Thank you, Your Honor. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u92	All, all positions will be saved, query read and statement. It's a deal, isn't it? Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u93	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to stress once again the moment that has already been announced by our distinguished speaker, that due to the lack of time today, there will be no speeches by those deputies who are not satisfied with their parliamentary requests. But in the "Rose" section, the traditional speaking hours of the deputies will of course take place. So today, we have received questions from 198 Ukrainian national deputies, including: Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Administration for the allocation of funds to Alexandruk Alli, residents of the village of Pechanovka of the Romanov region, the Žitomir region, for the endoprostitising of the left shoulder bone. Oxana Korczynski to the Minister of Defense for the improper investigation of low quality testing, treatment of acubaratroma and contusions, rude, unprofessional behaviour of doctors and medical personnel of the Neurological and Surgical Department of the Military Medical Clinic of the North Region (the city of Kharkiv). Anatolya Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for bringing the 19th year's educational subsidy to Los Angeles City OTG in line with actual needs. Sergey Melnika to the Minister of Finance for the redistribution of individual types of subsidies Julius Timoshenko to Minister of Interior, Head of the Security Service, Attorney General for the assassination of a deputy of the Central District Council in the city of Krivem Rose of the Mirzoyan district of Dnipropetrov. Ruslan Solvar to the Chief Service Centre of the Ministry of Internal Affairs dealing with the restoration of the function of the territorial service centre No.3247 of the Regional Service Centre of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Kyiv region in the village of the town type Makarov. Ruslan Solvar to the head of the National Police Department of the Kyiv Region, prosecutor of the Kyiv region for ineffective investigation and improper verification of the death of Novoselski Olga Mikolayovna, who lived in the village of the Queen of the Fastov region of Kiev. Michael Bondar to the head of the public shareholders' association Lvivgaz to shut down the house where the mother and the young children live from the gas supply. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv Observatories, director of the Department of Health of the Lviv Observatories for the acquisition in 2019 of a multifunctional X - ray system for the Bus Central District Hospital of the Lviv Region. Victor Vuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the consistency of the legal position and actions of the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office regarding the implementation of the rules of the Constitution and the legislation of Ukraine on issues of single citizenship. Victor Vuka to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for numerous crimes with signs of corruption in relation to the monument to archaeology of the national significance of "Hotovské město" and the park-remembrance of garden-parking art of the national significance of "Feofania". Vadim Krivochatka to the Prime Minister on the need to verify the activities of the client and contractor from the reconstruction of the Children's Garden "The Teremok" of the Balabin Village Council, Zaporez Region. Vladislav Buhareva to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister on the need to allocate additional funds from the National Budget of Ukraine for 2019 with the aim of acquiring a linear accelerator for the district utility "Soum district clinical cancer dispenser". Vladislav Buhareva to head the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister on the need to allocate funds from the State Budget for 2019 for the purpose of obtaining a modern mammography for the communal non-commercial enterprise "Lebedinian Central Hospital of Doctor K.O. Zilbernik". Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister, acting as Head of the State Service of Ukraine for Medical and Drug Control on the verification of the legality of free circulation in the territory of Ukraine of Ceregin (Producer of Bilmeddrugs, Republic of Belarus). Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister on the inaction of the ILO leadership in a dangerous situation in Ukraine in connection with the outbreak of bark and the inefficiency of the operation of the MOH operational headquarters to respond to the situation of the spread of bark in Ukraine. Gennady Chekita to the Prime Minister, Deputy Head of the General Directorate for Combating Corruption and Organised Crime of the Central Authority, Attorney General for Criminal Investigation, No. 220170800000023, of the 21st April 17th year of the ZALK PAT massacre. Olega Berezuk to the Prime Minister for clarifying the non-compliance of the road map on the introduction of the Danube-Black Sea HSH in the Ukrainian part of the Danube Delta in full compliance with the ESP Convention, approved at the inter-ministerial coordination council on implementation in Ukraine of the ESP Convention. Jury Miroshnicka to the Kyiv City Council on the appeal of a citizen of Leonid Dalek concerning the illegal conduct of the management of the Children's Youth Sports School No. 26 of Kiev. Vadim Yvchenk to Henprocuror of Ukraine regarding the provision of prompt, full and impartial investigation into criminal conduct in connection with the illegal occupation of land by residents of the village of Dolin district of Kirovograd. Jury Wozniak to the temporary duty of the minister of health to make changes to the list of rare (orphan) diseases that lead to a shorter life expectancy or disability and for which recognized treatments are available. Jury Wozniak to Henprocuror of Ukraine for initiating an investigation by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine into the illegal claim of funds from natural persons TV "CREDITEKSREZ YUKRAIN EL.EL.SI." and the Ukrain debtfort. Valery Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for the continued implementation of the Constitutional Court decision of 18 December 18 on the restoration of the social protection of war veterans and members of their families. Artur Martovicki and Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister on the irregularity of the acting minister of health and substitute positions. Alexander Gerega to the Minister of Interior, temporarily acting as head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography, and cadastre for signs of a violation of legislation in the preparation of the sale of land in the area of Theophilus. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister to close the post offices and support the printed Ukrainian media. Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on employment and insurance. Vladimir Litvina to the head of the Zitomir Observatories, head of the Baraniv District Government of the Zitomir Region, on the privatization of the land. Andrija Lopushanski to the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the need for technical maintenance of indoor gas systems for housing. Andrija Lopushanski, head of the government of the National Shareholders Association of Naftogaz Ukraine, head of the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of the labour community of the Prikarpatska varta health complex. Excuse me, "The Fire of Prikarpat" (Strian district of Lviv district). Jury Miroshnitzka to the Cabinet of Ministers to appeal to the citizen of Love Saygakov for the inability to retire for almost 40 years to care for an incapacitated daughter. Vadim Krivohatka to the head of the Ukrainian National Police for the possible commission of a crime by the head of the Paulian Rural Council of the province of Zaporozhye district of Klimenkom A. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the need to improve the social protection of persons with disabilities. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister for the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of Ukrainian citizens who have the status of "Child of War" with the payment of pension payments on the basis of court decisions. Sergey Lechchenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the transfer pricing situation. Sergey Leschchenka to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the construction of a subway line from Sirec Station to the residential supply of the Vineyard. Vladimir Parasuka to the Minister of Infrastructure for the repair of road 0142001 Yavorov - Grušov, which passes through populated areas: the village of Chernilov and the village of Nagachev in the region of Lviv. Romana Macola to the Cabinet of Ministers, Minister of Education and Science to address the issue of fire safety at Shepetov College of the State Agrarian Technical University. Romana Macola to the Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine on the need to increase social standards for housing subsidies. Oksana Korczynski to the Minister of Defence for the provision of new, independent military and medical commissions to the Chief of the Zaporozhye Military Hospital of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, Lieutenant Colonel Chop O., and Chief Doctor of the Central Military Sanatorium of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, Colonel of the Medical Service of Rilski. Vladimir Aresonkov to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on overpayments for gas consumed. Vitek's Artema to the Secretary of Defense not allowing the publication of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence's printed editions "The People's Army" and "The Army of Ukraine". Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister on the need for urgent resolution of issues in the field of energy supply of the First-Major Coal DP in order to prevent restrictions on the supply of electricity to the production units of the enterprise. Vasil Guljava to the Prime Minister on the inaction of officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the issue of providing care for children with spinal muscular atrophy with a medical remedy. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on the need to increase state aid for children to single mothers (parents). Tetjana Bacheva to the Prime Minister on the non-timely development of the sub-legal acts necessary for the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on the Use of Anatomic Material Transplantation to Man. Dear colleagues, I'd like to remind you that we won't have a break at 12 o'clock. And so in about 10 minutes, there's going to be a record of MPs for performances under the heading "Rizzle." Please take this into account for those who wish to speak and return to the session room in 10 minutes. I continue to announce requests from Ukrainian national deputies. Tetjana Bacheva to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development of Ukraine, on the construction of rural infirmary and the purchase of service cars for family doctors. Alexander Kirsza to the Prime Minister for the cessation of the inactivity of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting and delaying digital language licenses in Kharkiv for local television companies. Alexander Doubenkova to the Department of State Awards of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration on the issue of State Prize Award - the name Hero of Ukraine. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv Authority for the allocation of funds in the 19th year for the reconstruction of street lighting in the Bilocerkowsk and Skuri district of Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv government for effective financing in 19th year for the capital repair of the roads of general use in the Bilocerkow region of Kiev. Irina Konstanovic to the Head of the Manevicki District Administration for the optimization of the structure and the marginal number of employees of the apparatus and the structural units of the Manevicki RDA. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister for the strengthening of social protection and the restoration of the rights of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Sergey Matvienkova to the Prime Minister for the use of impeccable stamps of steel for the manufacture of military equipment. Igora Lucenka to the Minister of Social Affairs for the exercise of individual parliamentary control in connection with the restrictions imposed by the Ministry of Social Policy on participants by the Law of Social Rights. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on the census of the Ukrainian population. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Minister of Social Affairs for the use of State budget funds for compensation and assistance to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister, Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association, Minister of Infrastructure for the Quality Functioning of the Postal Liaison Offices of Pat "Krnigivska" in the Chernigiv region. Andrea Shipka, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the organization of the work of the emergency (fast) medical services in the context of the establishment of the hospital districts. Mikoli Kadikala to the Attorney General on the inaction of the employees of the Lubashov Police Department of the Baltic Police Department in the Odessa Region. Igor Goose to the Prime Minister, the head of the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and utilities regarding the possible unjustified price increase for gas to consumers by the public shareholders Volingaz. Igor Goose to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister, on the need to amend article 43 of the Ukrainian Mining Act. Michael Golovka to the Head of the Supreme Council, Prime Minister, on the inadmissibility of ratifying the Istanbul Convention of the Council of Europe. Michael Golka to the Minister of Interior, Head of the State Forest Resources Agency, Director of the State Bureau, Attorney General for the illegal burning of charcoal and barbaric logging in the Hmelni district. Sergija Vlasenka to the Prime Minister on the ghastly high wages and rewards of the NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. Sergei Vlasenka to the Head of the President's Administration on the business trade, the final beneficiary of which is President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, with the aggressor country of the Russian Federation during the war in Ukraine. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Council of Business Ombudsmen, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Police, the Attorney General's Office on possible unlawful interference in the activities of the host subject. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the State Agency for Road Traffic, the Kyiv City Public Administration, the State Security Service of Ukraine for Road Safety. Groups of Nardeps (Shinkovich, Gerega, Macola) to the Minister of Education on the restoration of fair principles for the remuneration of teachers working in vocational and technical education institutions. Groups of Nardepas (Shinkovica, Gerega, Macola) to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Social Policy for the resolution of subsidies to persons who receive wages below the minimum, and who are unemployed who are not in charge of employment centres. Mikli Kucher to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, for the non-legal change of purpose and for the removal of particularly valuable lands that are owned by the State and transferred to the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine for permanent use. Hanni Hopko to Kharkiv City Head on the remembrance of the people who made a significant contribution to the distribution of the truth about the Holodomor of 1932-1933, a street change in honor of Riya Kleiman. Roman Semenha to the Attorney General on the organization of a re-examination of the facts of biased and improper criminal investigation. Roman Semenha to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the possible abuse of monopoly on the part of Pat "Harkiwgaz" and Pat "Harkiwmishgaz" in determining the volume of natural gas consumed by consumers and bringing them to standard conditions. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the possibility of reviewing the decisions made on the repairs of the Kiev-Odessa route by Construction and Installation Trust No.8. Anna Romanova to the Prime Minister, the head of the Ukrainian Railroad Association's board of directors on changing the cost of booking railway tickets. Anna Romanov to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for e-Visa for the citizens of the Republic of India. Andrea Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the dismantling of the temporary building without any documentation between the addresses of the street. Kibalčiča, 9th and Kibalčiča, 11th in the Dniprovsk district of Kyiv. Andrija Illenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the use of response measures to continue the lease agreement on the Kiev Film Theatre's property complex to an active tenant. Panels of members (Opanasenka, Rybczynski and others; only 7th) to the Prime Minister on the reform of the state system of intellectual property law in Ukraine. Alexander Briginz to the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association of Shareholders, the head of the Holy District in Kiev State for the construction of a private sector area dedicated to individual housing, garage and specific construction within the framework of the Air Force Base, ul. Vassila Alexuhin, 24 in Kiev, in the service zone of the Crossroads, a multi-story apartment building with signs of violations of valid building standards, sanitary regulations and regulations, signs of illegal inactivity and corruption of officials of the DABI, state authorities, and other institutions. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the State Judicial Administration, the Attorney General on the inadmissibility of artificial and unlawful delaying proceedings before the courts regarding the criminal liability of former commanders of BMOP "Berkut" Lukas Vladislav, Pacellak Romana, Shapovalova Viktor, regarding the fact that they committed acts that contained signs of criminal offences (excession of power and official powers, which resulted in serious consequences, the killing of two and more persons, the commission of bodily injuries of various degrees of gravity, etc.) in relation to the participants of the Order for an episode of February 18, 14. Groups of nardputts (Sumar, Chervakovi, others; only 10th) to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration on the violation of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care, persons of their number. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Social Policy, Henprocuror of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv government for violating the requirements of legislation on adoption by foreigners of Ukrainian children. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister for information on compliance with legislation in the process of inter-State adoption of Ukrainian children. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister, Minister of Interior, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Head of Security Service, Attorney General for Abuses in Public Procurement at the PRAT "AK Kyivvodokal". Oleg Osuhovski, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Health, Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Minister of Finance for the Management of Orphan Diseases. Borislav Bereza to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the construction of new educational institutions in the 20th and 25th microregions of the right district of Kiev. Borislav Bereza to the head of the Kyiv City Administration for the illegal construction of small architectural buildings in the right - hand district of Kiev. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Justice on the violation of the law by State contractors through the imposition of arrests on special bank accounts of debtors for social benefits, the lack of a proper response to their complaints and the failure to comply with the legal procedure for bringing these grounds of parliamentary appeal to the Chief Territorial Administration of Justice in the Poltav region. Irina Sisoyenko to the executive responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian State Service of medical devices to provide information on the fact - tell - the - story trade with falsified medical devices. Groups of Nardepis (Lukyanchuka) To the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General on the complaint "AI YOU INVESTMENTS" about the unfair pressure on the business activity of the Kyiv law enforcement authorities. Oksana Bilozer to the Minister of Infrastructure for the lack of a proper transport connection between internally displaced persons and other Ukrainian citizens who live in the area of the National Park "Mježirya" (S. New Petrovci) and the city of Kiev. Sergey Rudik to Deputy Prime Minister Paul Rosenk, Minister of Social Policy on the urgent settlement of the issue of the appointment of social scholarships to students (teachers) involved in the fighting and children of participants in the fighting. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the capital repair of the road to the general use of the state value T-16-08 "Bulgrad-Cube-Arciz" (in the area of Zadunajka-Glavana-Pramobalka). Vassil Janicka, head of the Pension Fund, Minister of Social Policy, Head of the Vladimir district administration of the Plains Region, Head of the Annual Regional Government of the Plains Region for the purpose of granting retirements over the years to many young women working in agricultural production. Alexander Suprunenka to the Head of the Supreme Council, the First Deputy Committee of the Supreme Council on the Rules for Systematic Violations by the Prime Minister of Ukraine of the Status of the People's Deputy Act of Ukraine. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Ecology, Head of the Cerkas Observatories, for helping to complete the process of changing the boundaries of the German Monastery in the Cherkas region and for stopping the delay in the resolution of the issue. Yurya Derevyanka to Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development, Head of the Provincial Regional Government, Captain of the Rural Head on the impermissibility of obstructing public authorities and local self-government by officials and officials of the local communities of the village of Pobuzke and the village of Captain of the Golovanów district of Kirovgrad in the process of forming a united territorial community. Yurya Derevjanka to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the provision of information to ensure the protection of labour migrant electoral rights Jury Lewchenk to the head of the National Police for the introduction of information into the Single Register of Judicial Investigations concerning the commission of criminal offences by Klick Bondarenko, a adviser to the Kyiv City Head of the Criminal Code, as provided for in part two of article 192 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Yuri Lewchenk to the Prime Minister, the head of the Nazcomisi, who is in charge of state regulation in the fields of energy, the head of the Antimonopoly Committee, the Director-General of the Private Shareholders Association "Child Kyiv Electrics" on the use of measures to respond to the grave violations of the rights of consumers of residential services in Kiev. Victoria Ptašnik to the Kyiv City Head to ensure that children’s outpatient facilities are accessible to all categories of patients, including children in wheelchairs. Yurya Berezi to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the repair of the road cover T0419 in the area of the road Petihtka-Ordo-Vasilovka and the road T0434 in the area of the road Ordo-Vasilovka-Cruvy Rig, Dnipropetrovska District. Yuri Berezi to the Minister of Infrastructure for funding to repair the E50 road cover on the Dnipro-Oleksandrija-Kropivnicki road. Victor Krivenk to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the duration of the investigation of anticompetitive concerted action. Paul Kishkar to Henprocuror on the inaction of prosecutorial authorities in investigating fraud during land privatization. Paul Kishkar to the Attorney General regarding the location of the investigating office of the major tax payers of the DFS and the conduct of the pretrial investigation. Hanni Hopko to the Head of the Board, the Justice Minister on the need to stop the activities prohibited by the law of the Communist Party, investigate the causes and perpetrators of failure to comply with the requirements of legislation. Igor Alekseieva to the head of the Kyiv District Administration for the repair of the road cover of the Julian tour in Kiev. Igor Alekseieva to the first deputy of the Head of the Glossiev District in Kiev, the State Department for Instigation at Marichanska Street, 5 in the Golossian district of Kyiv. Jaroslava Markević to the head of the National Police Department, head of the Mariupol Police Department of the Central Police Department of the National Police Department in the Donetsk Region, regarding the misconduct of the officers of the left-wing police department of the Mariupol Central Police Department of the National Police Department of the Donetsk Region regarding Ukrainian citizen Mikita B. Mr. Jaroslava Markevich, Head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency for the Improperity of Information in the Official Declaration of 28 December 2018, Deputy of the Bhutan City Council of Tamozny and Prosecutor of the Representation Department of the Office of the Representation of Citizens or the State in the Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv Region of Sinjakević, the current way of life of the designated civil servants. Vadim Novinski to the Head of the President's Administration for a copy of the summary document on the results of the implementation of the President's Decree of November 26, 18 No. 393/2018 on the introduction of martial law in Ukraine. Alexander Wilkull to the Prime Minister, the head of the Pension Fund, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Social Affairs, the Minister of Finance, on the situation that has arisen with regard to the improper retirement of persons released from military service and some others, the need for a 19th-year State budget pension fund for these persons under the law. Irina Suslowa to the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association's board of directors on citizens' complaints of violations of air temperature standards in train wagons and responding to them. Irina Souslowy to Chief General Genstab, Chief Commander of the U.S.S.A., on the requirements and standards of domestic security for Ukrainian female servicemen during peacekeeping missions in other countries. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister on the solution of the problem of recalculation of natural gas consumption in previous periods. Jury Bublika to Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on violations of legislative norms, non-compliance with the rights of local self-government authorities and ignoring the results of public discussion in changing the Poltava Area Planning Scheme and the placement of a sub-regional field with a garbage treatment plant in the Poltav region. Sergey Ljowczyn to the Prime Minister to increase the problem of increased debt from municipal services. Groups of Nardeps (Kryvenka, Chiscara, and others) Total 7) to Henprocuror for investigating the fact that the Irpine City Council’s deputies had exceeded their authority when making decisions on land issues. Edward Matviychuk to the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Public Shareholders Association Bank East, the Pension Fund, the Public Shareholders Association "State Saving Bank of Ukraine", the Attorney General's Office regarding the need for an objective review of the appeal of the resident of the village of Limanka Ovidiopolski district of Odessa, pensioners of Pranju Galina regarding the renewal of the rights violated. Borislav Rosenblatt to the Prime Minister for the establishment of order and size of compensation for the purchase and installation of individual natural gas accounting devices. Groups of Nardeps (Gorva, Petovka, Lunchenko) to the Prime Minister to ensure the protection of Ukraine's national interests in relation to the discriminatory actions of the aggressor country. And one last question. Groups of Nardepas (Gorva, Petovka, Lunchenka) to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy, municipal services for the provision of population gas counters in the area of licensed natural gas distribution activities by natural gas operators. Dear colleagues, we have completed our announcement of requests from the Ukrainian National Deputies – 198. I ask that the session room return to all the national deputies who plan to perform in the traditional Friday’s section of the House of Representatives. The Honourable Head announced that today, at 1300 hours, the session is now ending, so unfortunately we don't have time for that. Colleagues, are you ready to record? Thank you. And I want to announce right now that the performance in the column ends at 12:40. It's 12:40, because we're moving on in the daytime. So I'm announcing a record of Ukrainian national deputies for the performances. Thank you. We have four statements from disgruntled deputies, we'll transfer them to the next sessional session. Now, you're on to the "Victory" section. Please, Your Honor. Please. Please, National Fisherman. The fisherman’s national deputy gives the word “Galasyuk. ” Please, Mr. Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u94	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. What policy should be pursued by the authorities in Ukraine? The one that likes wealthy neighbor countries, or the one that makes Ukrainians richer on their own land? Oleg Láska’s Radical Party team is convinced that it is the second policy that makes Ukrainians richer. Unfortunately, today's government thinks otherwise. Judge for yourself. The law on the moratorium on the export of roundwood, which you and I have chosen in this room, which has doubled investment in the timber sector, which has brought in additional taxes, hundreds of new enterprises that protect Ukrainian nature, ecology and entrepreneurship. He is called the main instigator in Ukraine’s relations with the European Union. President Prašenko spoke against him and promised to cancel the moratorium. Of course, neither the team of the Radical Party of Oleg Láska, nor any national MP with a state position, will allow this moratorium, which works in the national interests of Ukraine, to be abolished. The European Union was blackmailing credits, and the European Union was initiating judicial proceedings to abolish the moratorium. But they will not succeed because the moratorium is in the national interest of Ukraine and fully meets the conditions of our participation in the Free Trade Agreement with the EU and in the WTO Agreement. But look at another document. An agreement with the International Monetary Fund, to which both current authorities and the President pray, and a government that is completely approved in the European Union. So this deal, this memorandum with the International Monetary Fund makes Ukrainians poorer, freezes the Ukrainian economy, contains specific promises of Ukrainian government before the IMF to double the price of gas for the population! Restraining domestic demand means limiting citizens' incomes. A hard monetary policy means expensive loans. Once again, Ukraine is transformed into a financial desert where industry is not developing. Selling state - owned enterprises is almost everyone, and those who remain want to appoint a majority in the oversight boards of foreigners. And all of this is what the authorities promise the International Monetary Fund against the national interests of Ukraine. What are the consequences? The results are detailed in the IMF report. The five - year economic forecast indicates that the trade deficit will increase further, and investments will remain below 2 percent of GDP. What does that mean? Further weakening of the bracelets, further loss of jobs, weakening of the Ukrainian industry. So economic policy is not healing, it's not strengthening, it's stifling the Ukrainian economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, the next performance is Yegor Sobolev. You're welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u96	Along with the Helsinki Law Association, other carefree people, we're doing the Defense Project. The idea of the project, its main task is to prevent attacks on active people throughout the country who advocate either the interests of their community or the interests of society as a whole. They often succumb to attacks, and usually the attackers think that they will remain unpunished, that they will negotiate with law enforcement authorities, with local authorities. So we want to talk as much about these people as possible so that whoever's planning these attacks knows that these people aren't alone. I want to use this parliamentary rostrum today to tell you about the Helen Resetko. She lives in Kharkiv and does a very important job for the people of this big city -- she protects the environment. Ms. Olena has an interesting story, she's been working in the IRS, and now she's retired, and she's devoted a lot of effort and time not to allow businesses in contravention of the law, contrary to the rules, to throw harmful emissions into the air. Sadly, this led to more than one attack, not just one. The last time she fought the ejection of the Kharkiv coke plant, she was under the house, right under the apartment, brought a crown with a hint of death and a future burial. I'm requesting a national deputy to Yuri Danilchenk, the prosecutor of Kharkiv County, to examine how this and other criminal case is being investigated, which has been violated by the fact that there is pressure on Ms. Olenna. And I want to tell all possible attackers to this person that she's not alone, that there are a lot of people watching over her fate that will come to her aid, and you won't be able to deal with her without punishment. I strongly advise no one to do so. We will continue to protect people who stand up for matters that are important to the whole country.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u97	Please, Mrs. Romanova will take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u98	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! I represent the Self-Help Union. And now I want to say that Ukraine loses about $10 billion a year because it doesn't develop Ukrainian tourism. Ukrainians already have to overpay for their vacations, travel on bad roads, and use the Ukrainian railway, which has already paid for booking tickets. But that is not all. The last strike on the Ukrainian tourism industry was by MPs who voted in the Tax Code and who actually planted the pig, consciously or unconsciously, to all the hotels in the country, to all the owners of the hostels, and to rural gardens. What's the point? The fact that there is such a local tax is a tourist congregation. Thus, in all countries of the world, it is calculated from the cost of living, and that is fair. And Ukrainian deputies decided that from now on it would be at a fixed rate of minimum wage. In fact, the tourist hall will now be the same as the owners of small hostels, rural gardens, campsites, 3-star hotels, economics, as well as the owners of 5-star hotels. It's like what to say, for example, to the owners of cars with foreign registrations, that we're going to clear you up and you're going to pay the same price as the minimum wage, and you're going to pay the owner of Mercedes a new one, and you're going to pay the owner of a 20-year-old car the same. Would that be accepted? No, it's not. That's why such blows should be applied to the owners of the facility. Thus, if local budgets now adopt even the maximum rates, most of the facilities with prices of up to 1,000,500 dollars will have to go in the shade. Many of my colleagues do not rest in Ukraine. And when I say, "Why don't you rest, travel your country, thereby strengthening the tourism industry of Ukraine?".. They say, "You know, because in Ukraine, low service and big money, I'm better off resting in Austria for that kind of money." So we've created these high prices ourselves, because in no country in the world has there been such a high tourism congregation that today's cost of 80 to 100 percent is going to be uncompetitive prices with all of Europe. Moreover, in Europe housing institutions have cheaper VAT, i.e. VAT is less than twice as much for other sectors of economic activity or sometimes for economic activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u99	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u100	and sometimes a zero VAT is applied to hotels. And our hotelers, they initially put in the price of the number, not a cheap VAT, but now they're forced to set up an inadequate tourist congregation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u101	Thank you. Please give the next speech, National MP Ivan Sporish. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u102	Ivan Sporish, Winnitzkin, 15th district. I really want to complement Anna Romanov, which is really, today, if we don't have tourism, it's the budget. And I think the Cabinet of Ministers should, and we all think about tourism development. But I'm just going to start with my speech. Because we are finishing the ninth session of the VIII call and very much. Well, everyone says they're starting to have a hot holiday. Well, there's no vacation in the majors, because we're all going to county now. And it's to the districts that we go to our electorate and we have to report to them. And today I was just able to ask questions to the government. More specifically, it's not like the government, it's not like the NAC of Naftogaz of Ukraine. We know what they're getting, but what's important is that they think about the people of Ukraine. Why do I say that? Because I told you that we have the death of Chernivka on Winnitzka, near the village of Mazurovka. And it's been there for eight years, you could say, empty pipes are rotting. There's only a few miles left, just a few miles to conduct a high-pressure pipeline. And it's very common because they say that the average pays twice. And that's how it's going to be. If today, in a year or two NAC Naftogaz doesn't spend this money and lift the high-pressure pipe, it just goes down, it goes down, and it's just people who are already completely, thousands of people who spent their money, they're just going to go for nothing. And so I would very much like to meet my constituents again, so that we really, as already said by Stephen Ivanovich Kubi, from the Cabinet of Ministers' bed, will pay attention. Attention was drawn to the people of Ukraine, and attention was drawn to those who have already done 90-95 percent of the work. I know the gas isn't good today, we think it's an alternative. But, at the same time, it will come in a year or two -- and everything will be fine, and we will extract our gas, and I think it will be good for our people. Just so we don't mess up the old gas lines. I want to remind Ukraine one more time, because they know very well about the road that I've been speaking on and on and on and on and on and on, and so far there's no progress, this is the Tomaspil area on Winnitzkin, the limestone-High-Crižopil. And to the end. Tomorrow, Waterhead. I would very much like all of us to go together to clear out all the negatives that we've accumulated today in the Supreme Council and with new forces, without populism, to come to the Supreme Council in February, in the beginning, and work as hard as we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u103	Thank you. And the next performance. People's MP Krivenko is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u104	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, respected Ukrainians, end of the session, many sign events were on it, both positive and negative. In my opinion, the biggest negative was the adoption in such a shameful way of the State Budget and Amendments to the Tax Code. You've seen it happen, and you've seen it go on and on and on and on and on and on. It was a great shame to fail to fulfill the promise of all 302 deputies who promised the Ukrainian people to change the electoral system and to remove the majority as the principal source of evil, the main source of corruption, and the main source of the preservation of corruption. On September 6, more than a thousand were under the Supreme Council, there were representatives and other parties, a total of over 3,000 people. Unfortunately, both the authorities and the opposition have already divided the districts, have already recruited people, told someone that "if you work for me in the presidential elections, it will be, whether I give you from my party to run around this county or not." And we already see those bribery networks that are being built. It's a shame. The gaining of an independent church by Ukraine is certainly a great benefit. On April 17, more than 200 motorists were under the Supreme Council when we voted in favour of the Universal Patriarch. And it's very important that we really finally get our independence. I'm briefly reminded of how Russia has captured us in this area. In 1448 the Russian Church was separated from the Kyiv Metropolitan Church and had been in schism for over 140 years, unrecognizable to the world’s Orthodox Church. Then, in 1589, they actually received recognition through bribery. In 1686, they received Ukrainian territory in their subordination. In 1700, the last patriarch dies, and Petrol refuses to choose the next. In 1721 he created the Holy Synod, in the 22nd he was led by the Church and became part of the Russian state. And it was in fact before the destruction of it by the Communists. Then, in 1943, Stalin rebuilds it, actually becoming the founder of the RPC. The decision was then made on the basis of a submission signed by General IGB, head of the IGB of Mercury. In 1946 they closed up their so - called renewal church, an up - to - date church that recognized Communists, and poured it completely into the body of the RPC. And all those agents in the crowd are filling up the church, and it's still part of the KGB, and then the FSB. And when Patriarch Cyril is in college last December.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u105	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u106	sitting at the Russian Federation Defense Ministry College and approving military strategies -- this is a genuine proof that this is part of the Russian state. I welcome to all the Ukrainians the liberation and the festival of Vodhrest, which is coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u107	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Krivoscha.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u108	Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Good day to you all, good day, good morning to you Ukrainians! I would like to turn from this rostrum to the deputies of the Mironov District Council in Kiev. The point of my address is next. Last year, the members of the Mironov District Council, when voting for the 2019 budget, did not take into account the offer made by the district administration’s education department, and the administration failed to do so, and MPs did not vote on the allocation of more than 9 million money to feed children from socially vulnerable families to feed children, including primary classes. The session of the District Council was voted on only 9 percent of the food requirements, accounting for 831 thousand dollars. The district council’s deputies were motivated, on condition, and the district administration was motivated by the fact that on December 23, 2018, elections would be held for the Mironian United Territorial Society, and these powers would now have to be transferred to the newly created local self - government body, and they would have to make this commitment, and they would have the funds. All of it! This is already their problem. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Moroccan united territorial community -- the first in early January, in adopting the budget -- voted immediately on the so-called "reversible grant" of almost 40 million, which is to return to the district council, the district administration to finance the same education, medicine and so on. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to point out that according to the data of the Mironov District Department. At the end of the year, the Treasury Department at the Global Fund of the Mironov District Council had at least 33 million dollars left. I wonder why the MPs and the administration of the Mironov region didn't take action and let the children of the elementary classes, the socially vulnerable groups of the population, starve and can't get free food in schools? So once again, I would like to refer to the head of the district council, to all the deputies of the Mironov District Council, to take a rather serious positive step for my fellow citizens, and to vote on the so-called inclusion decision. on the allocation of adequate funds to ensure that children receive adequate free food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u109	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the national deputy of Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u110	Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, dear voters, today is our next Friday day, and it may be worth it to rename this day as well as Wednesday as the day of the disgrace of the Ukrainian Parliament. Because even though we have a day-to-day issue today that needs to be considered and decided on, obviously there is no necessary number of votes in Parliament. Now there are 50 or 60 national deputies who are responsible for their work, and everyone else is denying us the capacity to make the decisions that are needed for the country. What is the solution? And what are the reasons for this situation? The reasons are obvious: there are a number of national deputies who care deeply about what their electorate and citizens of the Ukrainian State think about them. What's the big deal? Because they bought themselves a mandate, they bought it by handing out Greek, putting up a bench, laying down roads, buying places on closed lists of political forces, but these people are not meticulous and not benefactors. They came here to recover the money they spent on buying a mandate. How can they do this through Parliament? By adopting corruption laws, once, and by making corruption decisions on human resources, by forming the Cabinet of Ministers, by selling seats under individual ministers. Of course, then the minister, who actually bought himself a seat in these corrupt deputies, also starts to reflect the money he spent, and he's not a benefactor, nor is he a mercenary. So corruption is spreading throughout the activity of the Ukrainian State, so the prospect of living in a country without corruption, having a corrupt parliament, is zero. The situation needs to be changed, it can only be done by changing the rules of good MPs to parliament. The way out of this situation is open electoral lists. The bill on open electoral lists, it's called the Electoral Code, already submitted by me, colleagues of Chernenko and Paruby. He was accepted in the first reading. Now the task force is almost done working on it. The committee is to bring this matter to the attention of the hall. I demand that this decision be taken by the presidential campaign. Let me explain why this is so important. Each of the political factions that are here has a candidate for the Presidents. And these presidential candidates have to be personally responsible for the results of voting their factions. If a faction is a faction of liars who promised to change electoral legislation and didn't do it, it means that a candidate is also a liar because together they promised to keep the promise to the Ukrainian people, to introduce open electoral lists and to create an anti-corruption parliament. The answer to that question will allow a Ukrainian citizen to decide before voting for the President of the future, to whom.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u111	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u112	One of those candidates who has their factions in the Ukrainian Parliament who promised to establish the electoral lists and did or did not do so should, accordingly, give or never give their vote. This is a question of the future Ukrainian state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u113	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u114	My dear colleagues, unfortunately, we have not heard a very important response today from the Cabinet of Ministers about what we are going to do with labour migration, because today between 7 million and 9 million Ukrainians are already working abroad. The following year, according to the leading consulting company PricewaterhouseCoopers, Ukraine will take first place in the world at the loss of labour. So all the stories here in the Cabinet of Ministers about how the economy is growing rapidly, it's not really true, so to speak. In addition, and unfortunately this is not a metaphor, a country in general is dying today. Today, the United Nations estimates that by 2050 the population of Ukraine may have decreased by 18 percent. Approximately the same data predicts the Institute of Demographics and Social Research of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. According to their research by 2050, the population of Ukraine may fall by more than 12 million. Unfortunately, the problem of depopulation has become a characteristic of Ukraine, and this trend of population reduction is actively gaining momentum. Convinced that social instability, economic downturn, poverty, a criminogenic factor, a negative environmental condition, a reduction in social costs, a significant reduction in state income at birth, a reduction in health spending and, of course, military action in eastern Ukraine. And now I especially want to hear these numbers. In the past 20 years, the population of Ukraine has been reduced by nearly 10 million. Unfortunately, this is an absolute world record at the rate of extinction. Consider, in about 15-20 years, Ukraine lost its population, which is equivalent to the population of two, I repeat, two Finlands or one Greece. What you can say. So what can we talk about today, and what can we dream about when in recent years the loss of Ukrainian citizens has gone to millions? Colleagues, millions! In fact, the demographic crisis is the lacquer of the processes that are taking place in the country. Of course, it's wrong to convince an average Ukrainian who's getting better, but statistics are said to be a stubborn thing. The tendency to reduce the numbers of our people is one thing: that we die. That's why we're proposing a number of key proposals that can be stopped by total population decline and labour and intelligence drains abroad. You don't have to make voice manifests and slogans to make sure that it's better here than it is. You just have to create conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u115	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u116	We just need to create conditions where the economic and social climate of the country becomes so comfortable that our citizens have no sense of leaving their homes. But it's natural for a person to look where it's better. So let's do better here, so that people have jobs, that we have a future, and that our country remains prosperous and prosperous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u117	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the people’s representative of Derivyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, dear chairman, dear Ukrainians! Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. According to official data from the State Fiscal Service, there are 1 million 86,000 cars that have been imported into Ukraine from abroad, of which about 300,000 have not been exported, as required by law. During a half - century period since the date of entry into force of the new laws voted last year, some 25,000 cars have been swept away. And the government budget was only 1.6 billion dollars. At best, if every day there's a peak car sweep, it's about a thousand 300 cars every day, we're going to get a 50-60,000 out of this law, 50-60,000 cars, and about 3-4 billion dollars into the budget of everything. This means that it's 5 to 6 percent of all the cars that are already in Ukraine that are on foreign registration, or 17 to 20 percent of those who took them back in a timely fashion. So we can now honestly tell the Ukrainians that this law did not solve the problem, but created a problem for 1 million Ukrainians at least. I'm proposing not to treat a car as a means, you know, of luxury or something of luxury, but as a moving object, as an object of money making, as an object that people have to be economically active. Because luxury was with the communists. This is when it was a philosophical attitude, whether political or economic, toward a car. On the basis of this, I propose that we pass a law under which we will pay for the clearing of cars 10 percent, 10 percent, I emphasize, and on registration, one and a half percent of the military congregation and three percent of the pension background. So a total of 14 and a half percent, also for 3 years, as we did for electricians, where there's a zero rate for blurry. This will allow you to blur out exactly all the cars that the Ukrainians have today, about 1 million. This will enable the budget to receive 25 billion dollars in the first year, of which 17 billion dollars will be cleared and about 8 billion dollars will be spent in the year of operation of these cars from VAT and excise on fuel. So what we're talking about is that Bills 8487 and 8488, which have been approved by buttoning, need at least cancelling. But most importantly, we need to unite together to enable Ukrainians to have an affordable opportunity for all Ukrainians, not only those who have a car on European registration, but also all Ukrainians to be economically active, to work to have a car, not as a luxury, but as a means of transport, an economic activity, and not to expel Ukrainians from Ukrainian land, not to allow Ukrainians to travel abroad. Thank you for your attention. I look forward to your support for this very decision and this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u119	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u120	Good afternoon. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency, Brodovščina, Bushina, Kamyanecina, and Radehovščina On December 23, elections took place in the Radehiv region, Radehivsk and Lopatin OTH. And in this context, I want to go to the Central Electoral Commission, the appropriate electoral registry authorities, the heads of the RDA, respectively, where I am the majority deputy, or 119 constituency. In the example of the election in OTG, we saw that there was a problem with the voter register, and it wasn't exactly the 98th, 99th and 2000s that were accounted for. In this regard, they were unable to express their desire to vote in favour of the deputies, the leaders of these OTGs. As we know, and in front of the presidential elections, and in the parliamentary elections. Every time I'm in the district talking to the communities, I see how active young people are, how interested they are in building up their neighborhood, the county, the villages, the villages, the towns, the cities. Hence, they have the full right to take an active part in the voting. I want to go back to the C.V.C.C., to the body that's running the register, to the heads, to see if there's any such abuse in their areas. In the Radehiv region, I demand that a service investigation be carried out, why the 98th, 99th and 2000 years were not included in the voter register. And other areas: Brodivsky, Buski, Kamyanka-Buzki. To take this issue into account, to check the lists and, for example, to the presidential elections, to the parliamentary elections, and if, I hope, to be in further elections to the united territorial communities, these young people have the opportunity to show their will and vote in favour of a candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u121	Thank you. I'll have to ask the People's Deputy of Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u122	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished viewers! To sum up the work of today's session of the Supreme Council, I would like to emphasize that, let's say, quite a lot of attention has been given to the issue of, in my view, the development of education and science in Ukraine. Unfortunately, however, we have not been able to adopt a number of important bills to address individual issues of development and the establishment of a new Ukrainian school, the creation of conditions for education, the upbringing of children, including the promotion of the social status of Ukrainian teachers, teachers, teachers, trainers, all who are involved, working with children and young people today. And the new Law on General Secondary Education, which certainly needs to be adopted, has to settle the issue. We have to raise the salary for our teachers and teachers, because the process that my colleagues spoke about, the drain of personnel, and, God forbid that Ukrainian teachers and teachers are released in mass. Therefore, the salary paid by teachers is question number one for 2019. In this context, I want to say that the unregulated moment so far is an extremely important moment: small, it would seem, by the number of working, children's-young school trainers, they've dropped out of all the tariffs, out of all the pay grids. And so far, the Ministry of Youth and Sport and the Ministry of Education cannot figure out who has to provide funding and install them, balance them with other educators. This question needs urgent settlement. And to the end. From Educators to Children. Of course, respectable colleagues, school nutrition, and preschool facilities are vital. This was insisted upon, and my colleagues focused on it. But what I'm saying is, these bills have been drafted, they've already been accepted by both the Ministry of Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance. The feeding of children from affected areas, children who are suffering from an accident at CHEUS, agreed to increase the cost of nutrition in their children’s categories. Once again, the ministries have already agreed that they are always looking for an opportunity to save. But somehow this decision was delayed. So I urge this year, in February, to address this issue urgently. In general, the subject and attention to education is a priority in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u123	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Anna Gopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u124	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Today, I would like to raise the problem of gang attacks on public activists, inefficiency, or sabotage in investigating these crimes by those who should be on the watch for the law. We want to pay attention, especially to what's going on in Odessa. The situation, particularly in the Odessa and Hersonian regions, has been repeatedly highlighted. On September 24, following the assassination of Oleg Mikhailik, a line was sent along with colleagues to Arsen Awakov. It was pointed out that the victims of numerous attacks in Odessa were united by the systematic work of exposing corruption and the abuse of local authority under the leadership of Mayor Truhanov, as well as the opposition of the pro - Russian forces. We demanded immediate personal acceptance to deal with the situation in Odessa. However, a number of copies were received. A similar letter came to the MP’s request with similar requirements from November 9. Over the course of this, we've seen that, unfortunately, Catherine Gandzück died, we've seen that in Michael's case, only a loud scandal has allowed us not to lose the main piece of evidence -- the bullets that were removed from the body of the victim on January 11 during the operation in Germany. Meanwhile, the criminal plot in Odessa is spreading. One of the last tragedies is the death of a worker named Vadim Pavlück on an illegal construction project on January 12th, right on the Odessa beach. It's the same playground that was captured during the state of war for the police. You think the tragedy forced the bandits to stop? No, on the contrary, the building’s guards refused to allow the scene of a state ambulance, and then they attacked journalists and staged a shooting. Not only did the police not stop these dangerous acts but they traditionally covered them. And that's why we have a call to Minister Habakkuk: to keep these cases under control, this absolute crime of the police. We must immediately consider in Parliament the issue of criminal seduction in Odessa. It is very important to hear information from a temporary commission of inquiry investigating attacks on activists, explaining the management of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, and to ensure that all the guilty are accountable for the law. Colleagues, I know that the members of the interim commission of inquiry, in particular, unanimously voted to continue for three months the work of the interim commission of inquiry led by the national deputy Borislav Bereza. I think it's the right decision: for three months to continue the work of the interim commission of inquiry, because now its members have visited Odessa and Herson, they also plan to visit Kharkiv. And, from the information of my colleagues, on many matters, there are some first shifts. So, in principle, the tool of the interim commission of inquiry is to visit MPs on the spot, they're doing a little bit of speeding up, this increase, which is extremely dangerous, law enforcement with criminality, and it's threatening the development of the country, human rights and national security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u125	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Berezu Borislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u126	This week, there was a meeting of the Kiev court, which ruled that Paul Dolinsky, who defended the Donetsk Airport, which fought in the Sands, which fought in Karlovac, who fought in Donbassa in the right-sector voluntary battalions, was actually recognized as a participant in the fighting. For three years we are judging, Paul was injured at the airport, Paul was cured and returned to war, but there is still no UBD participant in combat. In addition to Paul, there are hundreds and hundreds of other volunteers who have not yet received UBB. I realize that in 2014, a very large number of people went to the front of the war against the Russians without expecting anything from them. They were protecting Ukraine, and today Ukraine does not even say thank you, Ukraine does not give them the status they should have. This is a disgrace, a disgrace to all of us, a disgrace to our system. What's more, you know, I'm surprised when there's an order from Poltorak that if there's a witness to the U.S.S.A. or the units where the volunteers were involved, give them status. And it's the Ministry that's ignoring this decision as much as possible, and it's being judged to prove that it shouldn't. When it came to fighting, the boys went and now they have to get what the state has to give them, the state is them. And when the time comes, and they get it, they shouldn't say thank you, they should think of it as a normal situation. And what I'm saying is that now we're running out of time for our temporary investigation committee. The interim commission of inquiry unanimously decided to ask the Supreme Council to extend the term of office and work of our commission, because there is a really large number of reasons why we should continue to work. And because after we went to the law enforcement agencies, they started to work, and some things went from scratch, and because in some cases they started to question, the investigation and everything else, and because we still haven't gotten a lot of answers to our questions. So I'm addressing all of you: please give the TSC the opportunity to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u127	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the speech of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u128	Valeria Zarzko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Yesterday there was a meeting of the leader of the Radical Party with young people, there were a lot of questions -- questions about the future, about jobs, why the authorities are turning Ukraine today into a raw colony and an exporter of cheap labour, why brain drains are happening from the country, why young scientists are not supporting the state, why there is no development and modernization of industry, why the issue of the economy of their own country has become secondary. All these questions are very important. But there was a vivid example today that Mr. Nasalik, the energy minister, spoke out of this rostrum, spoke very calmly of the sinking of mines. I have a question for the Minister: what prevented you from doing real modernization, reforming the field? Why are you talking about the lack of funds when $3 billion was spent by the state on coal purchases abroad? Why didn't this money go into coal modernization? Why do they not invest in their own country’s energy? Why we're stimulating labor elsewhere, but we're not paying any attention to our own economy. We see that the country needs radical changes, radical changes in the state strategy for young people, science, economics and ecology. The Radical Party team is offering an alternative because today our specialists are studying the experience of all progressive nations. And we're talking about the world going through innovation. Innovation occurs every day. The world is on the path of decarbonization, in all countries, environmental protection, economic dyarbonization, renewable energy, and environmental pressure. There is global energy security and independence, and only Ukraine does not pay enough attention. What is renewable energy? It's accessibility, it's investment in the country, it's security, because we're a war country, and security for us now is too big, it's the future. Our team proposes to develop such areas, and we have proposed a clear plan: an industrial reform package that pays attention to this issue. We're for being in the country. that the country develops those areas that need to be developed in world trends. The RPL team cares about the future and has a concrete plan of positive economic change to encourage young people to stay here to encourage young scientists to stay here to make our environment environmentally safe for our offspring for generations to come. We believe in our plan, and we will certainly put it into practice. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u129	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Zalitschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u130	Dear national deputies, Madam Chairman! As a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would like to announce our visit to Azov with members of the British Friendship Group, including former Defense Minister Michael Fellon, as well as the head of the British Friendship Group, John Whittingdale. We went to Azov before New Year's Eve, and our goal was to draw the attention of our international partners to what was happening on Az. We visited the military base in this region together, and we visited both ports: Berdjansk, Mariupoli. We met some fishing companies in Azov. We met with authorities, as well as with the local community. I wanted to point out that in fact our Foreign Affairs Committee started to start beating at the cracks back in April last year, and we called on the President of Ukraine to hold a National Security and Defence Council because there were very dangerous signals coming to us about what was really going on on Az, and on the sea and on the land. Unfortunately, the National Security and Defence Council was held only in September. Moreover, we invited representatives of the Foreign Ministry to our committee in July, and we received public statements, including that it seems that what happens to our ships is an exaggeration, and we can ignore that. Today it is absolutely clear that, apart from military aggression in the sea, there is still social and economic aggression, and our problem is infrastructure through rail, which does not allow businesses operating in this region to effectively deliver their cargo to the West, to export them, and also to block international ships entering Ukrainian waters, Ukrainian ships trying to get out of the Azov Sea are blocked by 3-4 weeks, causing Ukraine to lose millions and millions of dollars. Today the issue of Asa has not been resolved, and even though the state of war has stopped, we realize that this issue will not go away with the order of the Ukraine of the day. And our task here in Parliament is to draw the attention of our international partners, including at this parliamentary session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which will be held in January, at the level of foreign ministries, at the level of the President. But once again, in addition to the military aspect, we need to focus on economic and social attention, so that people who lose their jobs because of economic consequences don't migrate to the West or lose their jobs, and essentially hate power, hate parliament, hate executive power, it's our joint task and agenda for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u131	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u132	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian people! In this session hall, we make many important state decisions, and the outcome of these decisions really improves our industries. We were able to do a lot about energy efficiency, about Euro-integration, about strengthening the security sector, and in other areas where there is obvious success. At the same time, both parliament and government, unfortunately, have been completely distracted from solving space - related problems. More than that, thanks to the efforts of a group of deputies who are part of the interfractional parliamentary association "Ukraine – Space State", we have focused our government's attention on the need to make certain human resources conclusions, to make the government's position more rigid with regard to certain leaders who are leading both the agency and the South KGB, because they have simply been unable to report on the activities of the Fifth Space Program. There was no report. We couldn't get a program on time, a science-target space technology program back in the 17th year, so it would start working as planned in the 18th year. And more than that, not to mention that we worked all 18 years without the program, and it took a whole year to finally get the sixth program into Kabmin, which included the swan satellite, which is not only incapable of being launched into orbit because of the stolen funds. And for my statements and our deputies, who are part of the interfractional MPs' union "Ukraine is a space state", the NAB has already detained the first two suspects who have stolen insurance funds. What's more, the deadline for this satellite to be launched is over. He's morally out of date, but he's still part of the program on a regular basis, and the taxpayers' money is required to steal them, as it was before, and not be held accountable for the consequences of his activities. What's more, in order for this project to be extended through committees, through Parliament, I have information that certain of our gray "red" directors and all those who have such a common interest in stealing state funds are putting pressure on certain officials to say that this program is effective, that it can be implemented. And accordingly, they're giving in to the threat of release. They are forced to give such a witness. I stress that all these pressures will be documented, all of this will be passed on to the law enforcement authorities, and the program will be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u133	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u134	The program will be discussed openly in Parliament, all national MPs have to look into what positions will be carried out, and none of the items in the program will be re-stretched, unscrupulously distributed, and the leaders of certain institutions will continue to fatten in their positions as "red" directors. We'll do everything we can to ensure that our industry is protected and has a chance of developing in today's world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u135	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Krivenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u136	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. The whole country still hangs billboards for our common money, which is written "Grysman's government," "decentralisation," "new stage," well, and a bunch of other very useful words for Ukrainians. I don't understand why you can call the government of Ukraine the government of Groisman and not do anything to develop the economy. The Export Credit Agency has not been created, industrial parks, although this has also been promised publicly, the Coalition Agreement also has nothing to do with it. Instead, grants are given not to small, medium-sized producers, but to large ones, in fact to one company. Over 2 billion dollars in 2 years have been granted to a large company. We see that the government of Groysman is completely incapable of living up to its promises. Look, we bought over $2 billion of Russian coke coal for the steel industry. I was at Mr. Kistion's, and I was in all of the government's actual heads with the proposal to build the Lubelske mine, which is in Lviv. When coal miners don't have jobs, they don't have wages, because we're buying American coal, the government hasn't done anything to help build Ukrainian production, Ukrainian coal production, and not trade with the Russian Federation. When in the first year of the beginning of the war we talked about and stressed that we realize that we can't give up fast on nuclear power right now, in the aviation, in the space field. But for the fourth year, when trade with the enemy country is growing, the country that is killing Ukrainians, and the government is still doing nothing about it. The National Movement of Ukraine has a clear economic agenda. We know how to get an average pension of $500 in a thousand years. And when I present it, in Ukraine, there are people coming and saying, "Excuse me, can you promise the same thing in a year, tops in two? Because we're not going to live simply." I say, "I can't because we can't lie." We know what areas to develop, what tools to use. The National Movement of Ukraine has a clear strategy of victory in war. We understand what high - precision weapons are. The previous speaker spoke of the destruction of the cosmic field. And I support it in that the government is destroying the space sector. I was the deputy director of the South House, the deputy head of the Space Agency of Ukraine, and I know clearly what a branch can do and why it is now in such a dire state, and nothing is done. We have a clear plan for the development of Ukrainian culture because we need to preserve Ukrainian Ukraine. Ukraine is not just an area where it is comfortable to live on an economic scale, which is very important. This is an area where we want to preserve Ukraine, and this is a culture, this is our story. So we succeeded for the following year.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u137	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u138	Thank you. We were able to predict 10 million dollars in support of the Ukrainian song. Festivals like Red Route, festivals like Danube City will be supported. I spoke to the minister of culture today. Five million to save the petrickian enrollment. I am still prescribed in the Petrikovsky region. More than 7 million to develop the Plast. There are funds that are earmarked for programs, and I thank all colleagues who have supported the financing of Ukrainian culture exports to support us abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u139	Thank you. So, unfortunately, the time spent on speaking to the people’s deputies is over. And you know, we still have a duty to consider those decisions that haven't come to an end on our historic decision yesterday -- draft Law 4128, a number of decisions have been made. Let me remind you, we're looking at a reduced procedure. We have 20 minutes before closing. And first I'm going to give the floor to all the co-authors of the decision, and then we're going to have a discussion of all the factions. And I'm announcing the launch of a draft regulation repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 17 January 19 on the adoption of the entire draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. And I'm going to invite you to the floor of all the decision-makers. First. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dudenkova Alexandra Valeriyovich, 4128-d-P. Passes the word to Novinsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u140	Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues! Yesterday, with a grave violation of the constitutional procedure, the personal vote and the Rules, Bill 4128-d was passed, which legitimizes the raiding of the temples of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. In the session room, there are numerous cases of buttoning during two attempts to push it through Parliament. In addition, only bills that do not need to be redrafted could be put to the vote on the basis and in general, but we were told that there were rights to it. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the text of the 4128 bill registered on January 16, this year, was first introduced to the committee meeting on the same day as it was allegedly worked by the committee. But to work on the bill, the committee is only allowed after the vote in the session room, at the request of the Supreme Council. The text of the document had no conclusions from the scientific and expert government and the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches. National deputies were unable to get to know him as a violation of article 112 of the Rules. Under such circumstances, the document was immediately taken to the hall. Thus, the law on the raiding of the temples of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church was approved in violation of the Constitution. By the decision of the Opposition Block on vote-back, we ask the speaker to consider it in full procedure and to vote with respect to the law. If we refuse, we appeal to the Constitutional Court with appropriate submission. We urge the Chief of the Supreme Council to stop violating the Rules. We urge the Supreme Council to return to its constitutional responsibilities as a higher legislative body and to stop the legalization of power manipulations in the context of the pre-election campaign of Peter Poroshenko. The rights of believers and the democratic system of society are the eternal values of the state, which cannot be sacrificed for the sake of the President who has lost the trust of the Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention. Please support our determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u141	Thank you. I'd like to point out that I didn't say before the speech: the head of the opposition block faction of Novinski. And now I invite you to the words of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich, Decree 4128-d-P1. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! For the transcript, because we already know in advance that we're going to be preparing a constitutional application on the unconstitutionality of these laws. You know that there have already been two decisions by a positive Constitutional Court that have decided that laws are unconstitutional in connection with a violation of their adoption procedure that does not comply with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The same is true of the procedure for the adoption of Bill No. 4128-d, what the previous speaker has just said is absolutely in violation of all possible rules of the Rules. First, the committee passed a completely different law by another name. So the committee's decision was about the wrong law that was passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the vote. That's the first violation. Second offense. In view of the fact that the bill was immediately put to the vote on the ground and in general, and there were objections, remarks and proposals by the Ukrainian people's deputies from the "Opposition Block" – this is also a fundamental violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, because the chairman did not allow me to use the constitutional norm of the legislative initiative as Ukraine's national deputy, which violates the rights of my constituents and my constituents. Therefore, the decision will be made in advance. I've counted, there are now 57 Ukrainian national deputies in the room. I remind the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is responsible for not less than half of the constitutional composition, i.e. 226 national deputies of Ukraine. The list of violations can be given for at least half an hour. I call on the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to abide by the Rules, and I would ask the national deputies of Ukraine to have the same effect on the Head so that we may be aware before our electorate and before those. And the promises we made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u143	Thank you. And, colleagues, I support that there should be more people in the room. I'm asking all the national deputies who are in the towers to enter the hall, we're considering an important decision, and the vote will be in principle. And I would like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Kolesnikov Dmitry Valeriyovich. Debtkov, please, 4128-d-P2.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, respected Ukrainian citizens, it is a pity that the chairman, with irony, speaks of a very important vote today. I understand the irony on your faces, but I want to say one thing. All those violations that are a system in the work of the Supreme Council of this calling, which is the norm of the conduct of this coalition, all of these violations will have legal consequences because you have neither the moral nor the legal right to demand of the citizens of Ukraine the rule of law and order when in such an illegal, unconstitutional way you are voting for the really affirmative decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. With regard to the substance of the decision, it refers to the violations that took place during yesterday’s vote, namely, the cynical gross disregard by the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the rights of factions to declare a recess at the time when they insisted on the announcement of recesses. This is the first time. Second, that the bill that was voted yesterday did not actually go through a profiling committee, because the conclusions on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine applied to another bill. And third, most importantly. Those suggestions and comments that came from the national MPs came from me personally, I said that, but I didn't get the words, and again, the chairman didn't count. And according to that bill that was actually posted on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, many deputies were not even able to get to know it. The bill has been finalized, it has not only amended the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations, it has also amended the Ukrainian Law on the Registration of Legal Persons and Individuals. And last but not least, with the gross violation of the Rules, I would like to advise the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adhere to the MP's ethics and not to resort to the homage and rudeness that occurred yesterday in relation to our colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u145	Thank you, Your Honor. Without irony, I invite all the deputies into the hall because everyone's position will be important to their electorate. And in turn, I urge you not to put any pressure on the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. When they come to me. I emphasize, I've mentioned it and I've said it again, since the first day of my headship, there have been open entrances to the Presidency, anyone can come in. It's a demonstration of my openness, but it's not a reason to be shy. When I'm being held by a hand, when asked to turn off the microphone, it's a direct obstacle to the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You don't have to do this, it's wrong. I don't need to be provoked, and there's obviously no reason to complain about the emotional behavior of the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Spanov Dmitry Yuriovich, please. And, colleagues, there's now going to be a committee discussion, and then a faction discussion. And I remind you, at 1:00, I ask everyone to be in the hall. I'm asking everyone to be in the hall at 1:00 when there's a vote. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u146	Dear Chairman, I have a question. Was my ruling considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine? My decision, which was registered. As far as I know, the committee was at 12 o'clock. My decision is registered at 12 o'clock for 15 minutes. Has the committee considered my ruling or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u147	It goes as an alternative to the decisions under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u148	I think it's going to be another violation. Please, Your Honor, support my decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u149	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Pinzenik Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u150	Members of the People's Parliament, the Committee at its meeting on 18 January, considered written statements signed by the National Deputies of the Ukraine of Novinsky Vadislavovic, Dobinkova Alexandr Valeriovich, Boyka Yuria Anatoliyovich, Papiev Mikajla Mikolaiovich, Pavelka Yuri Aleksiyovich, Skorko Mikli Leonidovic, Kolesnik Dmitry Valeriovich, Šipka Andrija Fedorovich and Schencheva Dmitry Oleksijovich to the Head of the Supreme Council on the elimination of violations of the requirements of the Rules allowed during the adoption of the Supreme Council's decision on the draft registration number 4128-d of 16 January 2019, and they introduced draft decisions of the Supreme Council on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council from 17 January 2019 on the adoption of the draft of the 41s. The registration numbers of these regulations are 4128-d-P, 4128-d-P1 from 17.01.2019 and registration number 4128-d-P2 from 18.01.2019. The Committee noted that the authors of the draft regulations on registration numbers 4128-d-P, 4128-d-P1 and registration number 4128-d-P2 justified the need to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council on the adoption of the draft law as a whole by violating the procedure for the preparation of the bill to the first, second and second readings and its adoption immediately on the basis and as a whole, as well as the non-personal vote of the people's deputies, as the committee noted in its conclusions on the draft regulations. In the conclusions of the draft regulation, the Committee also noted that the Novinsky People's Chamber, when discussing the bill in its statement at the plenary session, had called attention to violations of the Supreme Council Rules when preparing the bill for the first reading. Ukrainian National Deputies Novinsky, Dobrenkov, Boyko, Papiev, Pavlenko, Skorik, Kolesnikov, Shipko, Shentz, according to the provisions of part five of the Sixth Article 48 of the Rules, have made written statements to the Head of the Supreme Council regarding the removal of violations of the Rules and have made appropriate decisions for consideration by the Supreme Council. The Committee adopted the conclusions on these draft regulations and proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide whether to adopt them or reject them by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u151	Thank you. I'm asking you to record the factions: two for, two for, two for. Please. The People's Front is Yelen's Viktor Evgenovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, we have just received about 10 pages of text saying that Ukraine should remain a vassal of Russia. We have received 10 pages of text about the need for the spiritual protection of the Russian Church to be perpetuated over the Ukrainian Church. I want to emphasize that this law, which we adopted yesterday, is universal, it does not apply to any church or religious organization, it fully complies with the international principles of freedom of conscience, the Ukrainian Constitution and the principles of freedom that are proclaimed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Again and again, I want to say that this bill was discussed in a religious environment, in an expert environment, it was applied with respect and taking into account the religious feelings of believers. Even those national MPs who couldn't get acquainted with the bill because they were driving, let's say, to Afon, at the time he was being discussed, they got a chance to read it and discuss it. What is this decision about? It's a decree that the rule of law, 8 articles, that any religious organization can be subordinated to any center and change its subjectivity, remains dead. I urge you not to let that happen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u153	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Ribak passes the word to Krivenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u154	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. In the 1990 ’ s, from the second assembly of the National Movement of Ukraine, delegates stood up and went to defend Sofia Kyiv, for then Alexia, a Russian patriarch, wanted to capture her and to have a Moscow church. Unfortunately, in the 91st year, the Ukrainians chose, not Chernobyl, but the Communist Kravczuk, who played for the Moscow Church, and we didn't have the only church, we would have had it much earlier if we had the right vote. And then some also said that you did something illegal. How is it that you forbid a Russian patriarch from entering Sofia Kyivsky? Understandably, then they would be strengthened there, and the church would not be ours, but, unfortunately, the center of hostile propaganda. On May 8, 2015, when all members of the religious communities in the Supreme Council stood up and honored the memory of the Ukrainians who had fallen on the front of Russian aggression, the only ones who had not stood up — Mr. Onufrei and his two other supporters, who came along with him. Just imagine! And then there were rules. Now that Mr. Novinski is going to go and talk to PARJE about how illegal it is, I would like to ask Mr. President not only Mr. Saakashvili to consider so quickly the issue of citizenship, but perhaps your question of how you got it, whether there were any violations. Because we need to stand first in defense of Ukraine. And no one is oppressing the church. There will be no force transition. There is no threat to the faithful Russian church. And when someone's afraid, when they're really called the Russian Church, why, you know, when wolves pull sheep's skin. You don't have to fight me like that! I understand there if Styrlitz were there saying, "No-no-no, I'm not Colonel Isaiah!" What about you? Normally, let the Russian Church be here, let people know where they're going. So, society, we see the country free from Russian aggression, from Russian dependence. Ukraine will win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u155	From the Opposition Block to the word, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I reiterate the attention of the Ukrainian National Deputies: today we do not have the subject of the law and the essence of the law that we voted yesterday, but today in our consideration of the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the violation of the procedural rules for the adoption of yesterday's law and violations of the Rules. Under the stenogram, in view of the fact that everything is the same, I think it will be. There will be court hearings on this issue, and other things provided for by law, things, maybe even an appropriate application will be made for the inclusion in the GDR and for the conduct of a trial, so I want to put the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's attention on the next one under the transcript. At 12 o'clock today, the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine held a meeting on the Committee with 3 questions, 3 rulings: this is regulation 4128-d is the first order, the second regulation 4128-d-P1 and the third regulation 4128-d-P2. And they are now under consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I'm taking note of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that at 12 o'clock, 5 minutes was registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the fourth decree is 4128-d-P3, which was not before the committee, and this is confirmed by the members of the committee that are present here. Therefore, even if three decrees are not now voted on and supported, this decree cannot be voted on today, and accordingly the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will not have the right to sign this law under the Rules. If it's signed, we'll have to go to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u157	Thank you. Colleagues, this is the closing act, the closing statement. From "The Fatherland" Ivan Krulko. And in two minutes, we're going to vote. I really invite everyone who's in the towers to come into the hall and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u158	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The creation of a local Orthodox church in Ukraine is a truly historic decision. And what was adopted yesterday is a bill that creates legal mechanisms so that every community that has accepted for itself that it wants to be in jurisdiction can do so in the religion of the Ukrainian Auto-Cefal Orthodox Church itself, just like any other community in any other religion. This is the right of communities that own property and that can make decisions about where they are. But at the same time, I would like to say that in the Supreme Council of Ukraine it is extremely important that every law that is passed is strictly in accordance with the procedure. This is our obligation as a parliament so that we do not have to deal with matters of a procedural nature the next day after making historic decisions. It doesn't give the Parliament any strength, and it doesn't give us the strength to make the decisions we make. Tomorrow, today in Ukraine, the Holy Evening, which sums up Christmas celebrations and tomorrow, all the waters in our country will be Jordanian waters. There will be water baptism and sanctification. And I very much hope and hope that the Jordanian water will tomorrow give reason and wisdom to all Ukrainian politicians, including to stop discrediting the newly created church and the newly elected chairman of the new church and not to use it in political manipulation. Here we encourage you to stop doing that. And let the great festival of Vodhrest tomorrow remind the leaders who call themselves that of discrediting what has been so difficult for Ukraine for centuries. And this law is necessary and the Ukrainian Church will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u159	Thank you, colleagues. So I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And, Mr. John, about the procedure. There's a dispute. The apparatus believes that when there is an alternative bill, as it has been, and it treats with the main bill, even if there is no committee decision. But in this argument, we have to remember the main thing -- there's a double reading in front of 20 non-plenary days. During those 20 days, hundreds of communities throughout Ukraine, and regardless of the elections, regardless of the politicians who intend to join the only Ukrainian church, will not have to do so. And so, obviously, there must be a great responsibility for each of us when we consider and when we consider and vote in favour of each decision. My deep conviction is that we must not hold back this will, which is in the memory of grandparents and grandparents today, all over Ukraine: from west to east. We must give the way that without conflict, without any dispute, the community has the opportunity to make its will known. So I'm sure we'll turn it down today. The soul, the body is torn to death. So I'm sure we'll make a wise decision today, and the law will be signed. So let's move on to making a decision. Please take up jobs. I think voting will be important for everyone under these orders. Please come back from your beds. I'm going to put in sequence each decision separately. First. Who supports Decree 4128d, please. P-1. It's just P. Please vote who supports it. Anyone who doesn't support it, please don't vote. Vote. Please apply the personal vote. [[13:04:21]] For-33 33-in, 52-again. Decree 4128-d-P is dismissed. 4128-d-P1. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. [[13:04:48]] For-26 26-in, 54-again. Decree 4128-d-P1 has been rejected. Next up is 4128-d-P2. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:05:12]] For-27 27-in, 54-again. Decree 4128-d-P2 has been rejected. 4128-d-P3. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:05:36]] For-24 24 in, 50 in. Order 4128-d-P3 dismissed, colleagues. And that gives me the right to publicly sign Law 4128, which I solemnly do. And to provide today for all Ukrainian citizens who are willing to join the Ukrainian Church, to do so in accordance with the law, to do so democratically. It is our responsibility as the authorities, as the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The law is signed. Thank you all. And now we are moving on to the closing of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to speak to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andrija Volodymyrovich Parubia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! Today, the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation closes its work. I'm going to remind you how many people were skeptical about this session, and they said, "This autumn will be the electoral day, the election year and the parliamentary work will be gone." And we've heard that from a lot of people. But whenever we were going to talk about state-owned things without politics, I was stressing the high level of responsibility of all the national MPs, no matter what factions they're in. And our responsibility has allowed the session to be truly historic. I'll just give you statistics first. During the session, 140 positive decisions were made. Of these, 75 laws in general, including the law that I have just signed. Adopted in the first reading of 20 bills and 45 decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's statistics. These are just numbers. But behind each of those laws is the whole direction, the fate of the people, and most importantly, the fate of the state. I want to remind you of the main bills that we've been discussing at this session. First of all, for the Ukrainian Parliament, the Parliament of the country that is fighting for independence and which is holding back Russian aggression, these were issues of national security and defence. On December 6, 18, we were adopted by the President of Ukraine, the Act on the Cessation of the Agreement of Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. This is a political step that confirms the irreversibility and sovereignty of our country and the Euro-Atlantic choice. Thus, the Ukrainian Parliament placed a dot in the discussion of the current state of the Ukrainian-Russian relations. One of our main tasks for this Parliament and for me as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to ensure the irreversibility of Ukraine's membership in NATO and the EU. And so as early as June 17th, on the legislative level, the Ukrainian Parliament adopted a position that membership in NATO and the EU is our key position. But it was important for us not to give any chance, not even the dream of a rematch. Because we remember who was in this room in the 10th year, when within five minutes, within five minutes of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of Foreign and Internal Policy, all mentions of NATO were removed. By one vote, one person raised his hand -- and the course of the entire state was changed. Then it was very simple: there were warriors standing there, one man raising his hand, and voting for whom he could or could with his hands. Those who teach us the procedure today about the Rules. Where were they when they made decisions with their hands in the hall and considered their decisions valid? In order not to allow any more, I stress, even the hopes and dreams of a rematch, we have supported the President's initiative that the NATO and EU course be anchored in the Constitution of Ukraine. We voted twice in the hall, 311 people's deputies voted in favour. And we have already received a positive decision from the Constitutional Court. And now it takes 300 votes to be able to put it into practice and to take this important state step into the Constitution of Ukraine. And I'm sure this will be one of the questions that we'll start our next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would also like to point out that when I was in front of you at the beginning of the session and I proposed a plan, I was talking about the very important laws we need to implement the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. It wasn't just those laws that passed. Remember, yesterday there was one of them, unfortunately we were unable to unite around him, but, nevertheless, we were able to adopt a number of fine laws at this session. Of the laws necessary for the implementation of the EU Association Agreement, 11 were adopted as a whole and 5 were adopted as a basis. And I assure you, and I'm sure everyone agrees with me that this trend will remain one of the prerogatives of our Parliament and the next session. The main priority of the Ukrainian Parliament was also the support of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I'll remind you: the laws that have been discussed for a long time, we were able to adopt in this session. [[Applause]] I will remind you: The law on the adjacent zone that brought together the entire parliament, which had been under discussion for a long time, but we were able to unite and accept it. And it already acts as a law that allows us to use the Armed Forces of Ukraine more effectively, especially on the Azov Sea, where last year we witnessed an aggressive act by the Russian Federation and the Russian Armed Forces against the Ukrainian military. I want to remind you of a beautiful day when we, together here, approved the amendments to the charter and introduced a greeting to "Glory to Ukraine!" In the Ukrainian army on the initiative of President Slava Ukraine! Heroic glory! The appeal of "sir" to Ukrainian officers, "Mr. Colonel," as in our tradition of a century ago, is already a law, it is adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament, it is a joint work of both the President and the government, and the Ukrainian Parliament. I would like to remind you that this year and this session, we have established a level playing field between women and men during military service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations. This is also an important step by the Ukrainian Parliament. We have adopted the Ukrainian Act to amend some of Ukraine's laws to increase the social protection of military personnel. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, we created the Ministry of Veterans Affairs and appointed a minister on the affairs of the veterans of IrinuFrez. And this is also a new stage in the work of the joint government and of the Ukrainian Parliament. We took many and symbolic steps for the army. And I would like to welcome our decision to give the Lithuanian-Polish-Ukrainian brigade the name of Mr. Kostin Ostrozhky. It's an international formation, and it was an initiative of the Parliamentary Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine-Poland-Lithuania, and it's implemented, and the great Ukrainian prince today is a symbol of our joint military brigade. I want to remind you that in this session we have adopted one of the first laws necessary for the implementation of the large-scale National Security and Defence Act that we adopted in the previous session. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine has supported the Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on procurement of goods and jobs and defence services that will allow the Ministry of Defence to directly purchase imported military goods. But it's very important -- the adoption of this bill opens up access for Ukraine to 250 million dollars allocated to the United States to help Ukraine. I'm going to remind you of another Act on Opposing Activities, how long we've worked around it. I would like both the committee and the working group to welcome the fact that we were able to come to a final decision in this session and involve a huge number of our international partners in demarcating those territories that have been demolished by a Russian aggressor. And it was also an important step in this session and in the important steps and support of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and our brothers, citizens in eastern Ukraine, who are still suffering from Russian aggression every day. I also want to point out that an important security law in this session was to amend the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine regarding the responsibility for the illegal crossing of the state border. And Ukraine increased its responsibility for violating the border by making Ukraine's border more powerful and powerful in times of Russian aggression. But no doubt one of the most outstanding events of this year, which has already taken its place in the national chronicle, is the acquisition of Tomos and the creation of the only local Orthodox Church of Ukraine. [[Applause]] For centuries, through fire and blood, the Ukrainian people went to this event, not only to have their own truth and power and will, but also to their independent, free faith. And the question of autocafalia, which I have repeatedly stressed, of my conviction, is also a matter of national security. I want to remind you, it's not so often mentioned that the Ukrainian Parliament actually started this initiative. I'll remind you of that day, June 16, 16th, when we adopted a decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to His Holiness Bartholomew regarding the granting of autocephaly to the Orthodox Church in Ukraine. Then in this decree, signed by most of the heads of the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament, we detailed the whole course that Ukraine had taken in those two years. And I want to thank the President, on behalf of Parliament, for his powerful involvement in this process, for being able to make the final decision. Although we need to understand, God’s will was our greatest help on the way to this historic decision. [[Applause]] On April 19, 18th, the Supreme Council adopted a decree supporting the President's Address. On October 18, 18, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Law on the Specialities of Use of the Andrian Church of the National Reserve of Sofia Kyivska. On December 20th, 18th, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations was adopted. And literally right now, I've probably signed a final law on this difficult and long road -- the subjectivity of religious organizations and the procedure for State registration of religious organizations with legal personality status. The persistent joint activity of Ukrainian society, the Ukrainian clergy and Ukrainian authorities has brought about an age-old dream — the mother of an independent Orthodox Church in Ukraine. No exaggeration, after independence, this is the most crucial decision of the Ukrainian State and Ukrainian authorities. Dear colleagues, we have already entered the final stage of 2019 - the election of both the President of Ukraine and the only legislative body of Ukraine - the Supreme Council. And the Ukrainian Parliament, I recall, has always been a guarantee and a safeguard of stability in the state. Who remembers the time of the Orange Revolution, in fact, Parliament was then the foundation that ensured stability in the country, or during the Dignity Revolution, when all the officials fled the country, in fact, the Ukrainian Parliament was the guarantee of both democracy and stability in the Ukrainian state, and therefore the responsibility for us was the highest. And I think it's a very important decision that at this session we were able to dramatically update the Central Electoral Commission, if we didn't try to break this process. We, as the Ukrainian Parliament, have done our best to ensure that the new President, the new Supreme Council, is controlled by the new Central Election Commission, not the one that was approved during the Janukovic period. I would like to remind you that, by my initiative, the Order on the appointment of the President of Ukraine's election has been voted on, so that no one will have doubts: the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian authorities will follow the Constitution and the elections of the President of Ukraine will take place in the constitutional term. And I think that we should go through this year as responsibly as we did in previous years, and I believe, and I'm sure it will. Dear colleagues, we have a kind of achievement of this session: we have adopted the Ukrainian budget most quickly during the entire period of Ukrainian statehood. On November 23, the Ukrainian budget was adopted, and this enabled local communities to adopt their own budgets before New Year’s, which is the result of the fruitful and systematic cooperation of the Ukrainian Parliament and government. I want to thank the government, all the ministers who have been active, and all the deputies for joining this process. In this session, colleagues from the Supreme Council of Ukraine joined in restoring historical justice and the process of decommunization. I want to remind you of another important day when we approved the Act on the Strengthening of Social Protection for the Fighters for Ukraine's Independence in the 20th Century and gave UPA fighters the status of participants in combat. [[Applause]] Probably a lot of people in this room realize the importance of this decision for those who are still alive, who fought with weapons in hand for Ukraine in the ranks of the UPA or Bulby-Borovnik, all the military formations that fought for Ukraine. And giving them the status of a participant in combat is a restoration of very great historical justice, it's probably one of those decisions that the Ukrainian Parliament should be proud of. I'll remind you, we've renamed and continued decommunization. From the Kirovograd region today is the Kropivni district, and this is the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We've started the process of renaming the Kirovograd region, and I'm sure in the next session we'll complete the process of renaming the Dnipropetrov region. The 18th year was extremely full of events, and it was a historic and successful year for Ukraine. The following year, too, is extremely responsible for us. I am convinced that the Ukrainian Parliament will work despite all the efforts of the Russian Federation to destabilize both Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian Parliament. We stand before any pressure, we let no one destabilise the Ukrainian state. And I already said, in the next session, I think we should start by making changes to the Constitution -- the EU-NATO issue. I think one of the first questions in February should be another of our historical decisions, colleagues: the Ukrainian Language Act, the Ukrainian State Language Act. The New Year’s Committee concluded its consideration, and I believe that in February we will be able to consider all the amendments and complete its consideration. And this is also the question that stands before us. And most importantly, to ensure a democratic procedure for holding presidential elections, to protect the irreversibility of European choice, to protect the irreversibility of the path we've been going through over the past five years, the historic five years, the irreversibility of the changes we've started. And I'm sure we can handle this. Now I want to thank you. Thank the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Volodymyr BorisovichGroysman, and all members of the government for our difficult but very fruitful cooperation. Every single one of you. Thank you for your cooperation. [[Applause]] I want to thank all the factions. I'll tell you: 90 percent of those laws were passed by virtually most factions in Parliament. We didn't see where the coalition was, where the opposition was. We were looking at where Ukraine is and where Ukrainian interest is. So thanks to the Peter Dust Block for this systematic work, I want to thank all of you. I want to thank the People's Front for its energy, for its power in Parliament's work. [[Applause]] I want to thank the Fatherland faction for supporting the State Initiatives, thank the Radical Party for the controversy, but also for the shared positions on the key issues, I want to thank the Self-Help faction for the important state position, for the professionalism, thank you. I want to thank the People's Will. Well, who doesn't have one, I won't thank you. Is that wise? [[B in m in s a l in]] Whoever left the hall has nothing to thank for. Actually, I want to finish. Colleagues gave more than many factions during key ballots. I also want to thank you very much. Postfaction -- sometimes 30 to 40 votes on key issues. And we keep mentioning factions is my individual and important thanks to you. Dear colleagues, this is another stage. The stage ahead is no less important. I've been saying and stressing all the time: responsibility, understanding, public interest should be a key motive. Last year we had another event: 100 years of Ukrainian statehood. Don't lose the Ukrainian state. To develop, to develop the Ukrainian state is all our responsibility, the Ukrainian Parliament, and I am convinced that we will be able to go through it with confidence and dignity. Congratulations, colleagues, all of you! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-18-m0.u162	In line with our calendar plan for the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on January 18th, we are scheduled to conclude the plenary work at the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I remind everyone that next week the national MPs are working with the voters, and the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call will begin its work on Tuesday, February 5, 19th, at 10 a.m. So, honourable fellow national MPs, the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, will complete its work on January 25, 19th, and our plenary session will be closed. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Glory to Ukraine!
