ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please register. [[16:05:53]] A total of 375 Ukrainian national deputies were registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue to consider the issue of Bill 1008. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Legal Policy of Venedic Irina Valentinovna. Give me two minutes of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u2	Honorable people of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs, regarding Bill 1008. We remember the bill well, and we remember it from August 29. What's the point? It's a change of model, not a name. I have a lot of respect for Ms. Danyevsky, and I have a lot of respect for the judges of the Supreme Court, but I don't need to be manipulated by names right now, it's about the model. I want to give you a little bit of statistics: the United States – 9 Supreme Court judges, Britain – 12, Canada – 9, Japan – 15, Switzerland – 35 to 45, Poland – 72, Czech Republic – 35 Supreme Administrative and 71 – Supreme, Latvia – 36, Georgia – 28 Supreme Court judges. If we're talking to you about the fact that there are now 77,000 cases in the Supreme Court, and we've seen that more than 12 rights are in relation to the number of Supreme Court judges, you've seen one right about the increase? If we're talking directly about efficiency, about justice, about speed, then, mastery, those who applied, why didn't you offer 300 Supreme Court judges, 400 and 500? You were only talking about what to leave as it is. And leaving as it is is not access to justice, it is unfair and ineffective justice. So you have to change the models. And models can be changed by way of the cassation filters and by changing approaches to the Higher Qualification of Judges and the Higher Council of Justice. We're ready to go further, leave it at 72. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich. We're ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u3	No. 72, Knyazevitch. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u4	This amendment applies very important to me, in general, to a conceptual subject that is or is not the essence of this law. In fact, when we create a competition commission for the selection of future candidates for the VCC at the VWP, we create a huge monster in the hands of which will have a whole monopoly of influence on the judiciary. This has not been the case in Ukrainian court history. And it's very dangerous. I don't know how this story's gonna end. Time, of course, will tell. Because I understand that there is a mood to make this kind of decision. But let's try. No one would mind that on competitive grounds future candidates for the WCC are offered by the entity that is currently forming. Let us offer them, as is the case in the Constitution with respect to the judges of the Constitutional Court, on competitive principles, each to form part of the composition of the VCC. And there won't be any problems here if someone wants to talk about competitive principles.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u5	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u6	Yes. Turn on the Vendict microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u7	Ruslan Petrovich, I don't like that you call the High Council of Justice a monster. Let me remind you that in the Constitution there is an organ, and there is a separate Act on the Higher Council of Justice, where all these powers already exist. And we've seen that for the last two years, it's just a ceremony for the President to sign the order for the appointment of judges. So right now, I think we're giving direct authorization to the highest judicial authority. We understand that the judicial authority is independent and that it must put directly the emphasis it deems necessary. That is why the Supreme Council of Justice was created.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u8	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 72 people's deputies, Knazević. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[16:10:33]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Amendment 73, Makarov. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u9	My colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that before the work of the High Qualification Commission of Judges, the High Council of Justice could have sounded and sounded entirely justified claims. What do we propose? We suggest that candidates for the post of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges be selected for the same kind of integrity and integrity test as judges, candidates for judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court. But in order to appoint these people to be appointed by the judicial, legal, and judicial authorities, we should first examine the candidates for integrity and then the ones whom we have determined to be virtuous to be chosen by the judges ’ assembly. We don't have to create a competition commission. This competition commission has the opportunity to then influence the formation of a Senior Qualifications Commission of judges who are not judges who are just law professionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u10	Lies down, Anatolyovich, this question has been discussed on the committee on many occasions. And you remember very well that we talked about that this competition commission would be made up of three members of the Council of Judges, as it is now stipulated in the draft law and of three experts. And it's a perfectly normal perceptive practice in the world, and the practice with which we conducted a parliamentary campaign that the public has the right to participate in the formation of members of the Higher Qualifying Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u11	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Are you insisting? I'm betting on the vote number 73 of the people's MP, Makarov, and the committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[16:12:47]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Amendment 74, Jurchishin. Thank you. Edit 77, Krulko. Don't insist. Amendment 78, Germany. Don't insist. 80, Krulko. Is there a Krulko in the hall? None. 82nd, Germany. Is there a German in the hall? None. 84th, Jurchishin. Are you going to insist? 85th, Babi. Don't insist. 92nd, Jurchishin. 96th, Osadchuk. Please turn on the microphone, Osadchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, I appeal first of all to the speaker and vice-speaker, who is at the same time a representative of the President. We keep talking about openness, transparency and access to power. I had a completely technical and understood correction, and I can't understand why we're rejecting it. I would like to add to paragraph 6, where it is written that the organizational and technical provision of the competitive commission is made by the Supreme Council of Justice, a new sentence of the following content: "The Secretariat of the High Council of Justice provides for the online transmission of a real-time competition commission in open access on the official website of the High Council of Justice." What do we want to hide from whom? We need to guarantee the online transmission of the competition commission and all. Thank you. That's something to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u13	Colleagues, the point is that we're looking at a draft law right now. There are also regulations and positions directly of the Supreme Council of Justice. So let us understand that the law requires us to establish directly those vectors that must always be mandatory and appropriate. If we as the legislator really want to make the judiciary independent, let's give the Supreme Council of Justice the opportunity to determine how to work. As we're seeing now the online broadcasts that were being conducted by the WCC at the Supreme Court judges' competition, most often it was a theater of absurdity. So let's just leave it up to the VP to decide how to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u14	Dear colleagues. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 96 of the Osadchuk People's Deputy. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[16:15:54]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, please be a little quieter, because there's a council going on. Dear colleagues! By law, I get it. Yes, thank you. Thank you. Amendment number 97, Krulko. I won't. 99, Jurchisin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, it is very important that this significantly better competition procedure, which is proposed in law, could not be challenged in an organ to which there are very many issues, particularly the Kyiv District Administrative Court. Now, actually, by the law of the prosecution of competitive proceedings, this institution is the one that is going to be involved. My right actually suggests that the case be brought before the Supreme Court, which, in particular, is being reformed, if that's what the law says. It seems to me that it would be logical to propose a new procedure, to have an organ of complaint to which there are no objections. I probably won't talk about the OAS decision. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, we understand that we are now considering a model, and solving a particular problem can be different ways, different models. If we have a problem with OASK right now, let's answer the question: do we have a problem with the court or with the judges that you might think are unfair? And when we answer that question, the question immediately becomes what to do next. If we eliminate those courts that we don't consider to be criminal or otherwise, it's a road to nowhere. So let's go to the judges who make unjust decisions and there's 375th of the Constitution. Why not? We insist on our work, which the committee has supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u17	Thank you. Are you insisting on your right? Amendment number 99, national deputy Jurchisin. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[16:18:25]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 101, Sobolev. Don't insist. Oh, he insists. Please turn on the Soboljevo microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u18	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. What's the point of this? You know, some strange organ we have that should print lists of candidates that should be considered, but it has no bearing on the selection of candidates. I mean, the Supreme Council of Justice. So, logically, in order to continue to look directly at these individuals on the Supreme Council of Justice, even though one of them must be present on a competitive committee? So my logic is this: 3 people from one organ, 3 people from the public, but 3 people from the High Council of Justice. And then at least they'll be able to report to the High Council of Justice the questions that have been asked, what are the characteristics of a candidate? Thus, the body that publishes everything publishes what they use, including the competitive commission, has no bearing on at least taking them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u19	Sergei Vladislavovich, thank you, but this is a model issue again. We understand very well that the IDP has a bearing: it approves the regulations, it approves the acts, the statements that Sergey Volodymyrovich spoke about today did not allow it to do so. So in principle, a special balance of restraints and balances is put in place for the competition commission to be created from a professional professional environment, from public experts, and the Supreme Council of Justice to create its control and influence in another way absolutely and not within the process in this case. The committee did not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u20	Okay. Let's put 101 people's deputies to the vote. The committee does not support it. Please identify and vote. [[16:20:44]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Edit 102, Slavicka. Don't insist. 103, Calchenko. Knazevitch, 104. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u21	Thank you, Your Honor, Madam Head. I wish we hadn't manipulated the room with concepts and, frankly, I was surprised. In fact, the ceremonial functions of the GWP are still assigned to judges, not to members of the WCC. I was talking about the appointment of the members of the WCC. The members of the WCC are now appointed to serve as appropriate members. [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me, excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u22	Quiet. That's where they come in. Step aside, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u23	Subjects without any agreement. This is a decision that corresponds to either the assembly of judges, or the gathering of lawyers, or the gathering of higher legal bases, and so forth. And so they are released without any agreement, without any ceremonial participation. Please leave the order as it is, he's justified himself and he's exactly in line with the Constitution of Ukraine, where it's about that the selection of judges is to take place by a separate independent body, not by the Higher Council of Justice. This is a direct requirement of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u24	If you go directly to 104, the committee turned it down, using the fact that this is essentially changing the model. So so that the model stays with the vector that was installed, the adjustment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u25	Do you insist on voting? Do you insist on voting? I'll bet you a vote of 104 people's deputies, Knazević. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[16:22:45]] For-76 76. Unfortunately, no decision is made. 105th, Makarov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u26	First of all, I want to say. Attention! Colleagues, pay attention! First of all, I want to turn to everyone who came from business and who is a member of the American Chamber of Commerce in Ukraine, the European Business Association and the Association of Ukrainian Enterprises. I would now like to take a look at the statement, which, in a joint statement, these organizations have distributed, and to read what relation to this bill to business representatives. And I would like to say that we are now considering the grounds for the dismissal of judges. One reason is the inability to carry out their duties, the responsibility for health status in the presence. We suggest adding "if there's a medical conclusion." Otherwise, we fear that manipulative technologies will be applied to judges to remove them from their responsibilities and to the members of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges, we mean. Please support this revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u27	Lies down Anatolyovich, I'm so embarrassed, but I thank you for correcting yourself in the end. This is not about judges, but it is about the members of the Higher Qualifying Commission. And as far as you're concerned, it's going to be a court order. Because there's a bill that says there's a medical conclusion. Your claim is rejected on the very ground that it does not delay the abuse of possible trials. The committee did not support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u28	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Amendment number 105, People's Deputy Makarov. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[16:24:53]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 106, Makarov. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u29	Colleagues, please note that correction is very important. The project now states that the reason for the dismissal of a member of the Higher Qualifications Commission is to violate the requirements laid down by legislation in the field of anti-corruption. My amendment is that I propose to add "substantial breach of requirements." Since a minor breach is simply a mechanical, mathematical, other error that a member of the High Qualifying Commission may allow for the completion of an electronic declaration. For example, specify the area of your apartment that is not exactly 1 m or the deposit that it is inaccuracies. interest on the deposit he should receive. Only a major breach that has led to the adoption of the protocol in accordance with the National Anti-Corruption Bureau can give rise to the release of a member of the WCC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, we are a legislative body, and we have a clear and clear statement of laws for everyone -- either there is a violation or there is no violation. What is a major disorder? It's a rubber rule again. And the committee rejected your amendment because there is no term for "essential violation" in the legislation. And every time we do, we're going to risk corruption again. It's a major violation here, and there's a minor violation. So in order for us to move quickly and clearly toward just justice, we have rejected this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u31	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 106 people's deputies, Makarov, and the committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[16:26:52]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Order 107, People's Deputy Knazević. I see what he's insisting on, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Honorary colleagues, under the law, all judges, without exception, whether they exercise justice in the courts, whether they are assigned to the work of the CCW, whether they are assigned to work at the PSC, whether they are assigned to work before the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court is not a court of general jurisdiction, they are governed by the Code of Judicial Ethics. For some of those who will work in the UKC for the future, instead of the Code of Judicial Ethics, some ethical standards are offered to the judge as a component of professional ethics. I don't understand what this is, but the judges can't be guided by different documents that regulate ethical issues, because they have to be governed by the Code of Ethics and some other incomprehensible standards. Please unify these standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u33	Ruslan Petrovich, if we were to understand that all members of the WCC are judges or judges in retirement, of course we can talk about it. It's about the members. [[B in m in s a l in]] This goes directly to the WCC.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u34	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u35	You know, that's why we specifically set ethical standards so that there's no such thing as abuse. What ethical standards and virtue are, the qualified judges understand, so there are no questions. The committee did not support the change to the Code of Judicial Ethics, leaving "ethical standards".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, do you insist on voting? Of course. I got it. I'm betting on the vote number 107 of the People's Deputy Knazević. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[16:29:01]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Amendment 108, Makarov. Don't insist. He insists. Turn on the Makarov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u37	This is another reason for the dismissal of a member of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges from office, such as "the gross or systematic neglect of duties which is incompatible with the status of a member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine or has revealed its inadequacy with the position occupied, the acceptance of other conduct that undermines authority." And so on and so forth. For me, it's a rather inconclusive norm that might be a reason to influence a member of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges who has a special position that disagrees with the majority. So I think this rule needs to be ruled out. There are plenty of other reasons where it is more specifically written when a member of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges may be released for his own reasons. Please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u38	With regard to this amendment, in principle, the committee did not even have any discussions, since we all well understand that the members of the Supreme Court of Judges should be subject to higher standards of integrity, professional ethics, integrity. So it seems to us that, in this case, this rule is in no way infringing on the rights of the members of the WCC, nor on the rights of the judges, nor on the rights of the public to monitor these trials. The committee rejected the amendment by leaving the bill in the paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u39	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 108 people's deputies, Makarov. Edit is not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[16:31:09]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 110. The settlement insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, this is a technical bill, but it's very important because it refers to the decision to release a member of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges. I'm actually proposing after the words "defined by this law" to add the words "taking into account the features defined by this article" precisely to remove ambiguous interpretations of the grounds for the release of members. This article will serve as a basis for a great deal of conflict. We need to narrow them down and reduce the number of interpretations. That's something to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, well, in fact, the distinguished national MP answered his own question. We really need to understand that the law has to be defined. And when the law says "this law," it's defined, and when, as is suggested by the Honourable Deputy Osadchuk, it's "with the characteristics of this law taken into account," you have to understand, with what characteristics. Therefore, the committee rejected the amendment in order to avoid a variety of interpretations.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u42	Do you insist on voting? Thank you. Amendment 110, Jurchishin. Don't insist. 112, Makarov. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u43	Unfortunately, there is now a rather inconclusive rule that indicates that the decision to release a member of the High Qualification Commission of Judges is approved by the Supreme Council of Justice at its meeting by a majority of votes and all. The text that they want to change was clear about why this could happen, what the procedure is going on at the next meeting, and who has the right to initiate. In this case, the head or substitute head is initiated. I think this order is more understandable. He is, in my opinion, tested in practice and should be left behind. And I think that its application gives a greater definition when it comes to disciplinary matters and should be left behind as it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u44	We stand in the position that the judicial branch of power should become, indeed, an independent branch of power and, indeed, power. In order for this branch of power to do so, it has to give some kind of authority, and it has to determine for itself the procedure and order. Because it is better than the IDP, which will record this procedure in its specific rules and positions, that no one will explain. We're going back to the question of laws and what should be in the law. The law establishes the right vector, which defines the Supreme Council of Justice, that's enough. The committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u45	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 112 people's deputies, Makarov. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[16:34:19]] For-78 The decision is not taken. 113th Amendment, People's Deputy Makarov. Thank you. There's no rabbit. Yeah? 115, Makarov. What next, then, will you insist on? 118th. 116th, Jurchishin. 118th, Makarov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u46	118 also applies to the dismissal of a member of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. I propose that a member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine, on which the commission has passed a decision on discharge from office to apply for discharge, do not take part in the vote on such a decision. Actually, the readjustment was kind of understandable. On the committee we talked about it, it was in the old paper, but somehow it didn't vote, it wasn't supported by the committee. I would like to leave this formulation in the form that I have proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u47	Again, the question of the previous amendment. It is not possible to regulate the court’s authority and not allow it to determine certain procedural points on its own. And if we're talking to you about conflict of interest right now, we understand that these are regulated by other legislation. Thank you. The committee turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u48	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Amendment 118, Makarov. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[16:36:10]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Amendment number 19, Makarov. 120th, Aleksiev. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, I have proposed a new edition of the article, which clearly regulates the grounds for the release of a member of the High Qualifying Commission, making it, in fact, an independent body of the judiciary and independent of the Supreme Council of Justice, without violating the balance of the judiciary. Please support this amendment and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u50	Colleagues, when you look at the bill, the left column, writes, "the hearing procedure is carried out in accordance with the rules of the Supreme Council of Justice" -- it's about the independence of the judiciary, and when it comes to proposals on how, how and how full regulation is done -- it's not about the independence of the judiciary. So we stand in the position that the judiciary should become power, should be independent, the committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u51	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 120 votes, National Deputy Alekseyev, and the committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[16:37:36]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 123rd, Knyazevich. Don't insist. 124th, Vlasenko. Is he insisting? You and Yanchenko talked like that, I thought you didn't insist. Knazevitch, 123rd law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u52	Dear Mr. Head, the point is that I continue to insist that most of the judicial authorities should be judges. If the judges participate in the work of the High Qualifying Commission and most judges are represented, they should work there only if they are judges. The same paragraph removes this rule from the law and provides that a person who loses his judicial office may continue to work in the CCW. She is assigned to the UCC as Judge at the time of her duties. If she is no longer a judge, she is unable to represent the judicial corps in the judicial authority, which is contrary to the nature of the judicial authority in general. So please consider this right, remove it from the law and leave it as it is, among the reasons in the law, to leave the ground that if a judge resigns as a judge or terminates his duties as a judge, that would be the basis for his dismissal as a member of the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u53	Colleagues, we've talked very well about how judges are guaranteed. And just when you're talking to a lunch break about European standards, that's European standards. So when we understand the balance between interests and the public and the judiciary, we rejected that right. The committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, do you insist on voting? I got it. I'm betting on a vote of 123, Knyazevich, and the committee didn't support it. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:39:52]] For-83 The decision is not taken. 124 correct, Vlasenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u55	Thank you, Mr. Head. We've been told today that it's not about the name, it's about the model. So that's the law on last name and nothing else. It's a law on how to get 100 Supreme Court judges out of work, and by hanging all the last ones. Instead, on the simple question of why the question is being asked in this way, we're being told, well, you didn't ask for an increase, so we asked for a reduction. Instead, we are told that there are not so many Supreme Court judges in Latvia. This is how two million people live in Latvia. Two million! Like we have in the Lviv region, not the whole of Ukraine. We're told that the U.S. Supreme Court, there are nine people. This is how they perform completely different functions, not those performed by the Supreme Court. And my ruling concerns the grounds for dismissal and termination. You don't have to reduce them, you just have to teach them better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u56	Colleagues, we're not talking about reducing judges, we're talking about a system of judicial systems. These judges will work in appeals. We want to change and talk about the model when a judge comes to carry out his mission and wears a mantle, no matter where he is, either in the first instance or in the Supreme Court. And if you're talking about the model, maybe the judges of the first instance should be first, because that's where the access to justice and effective justice begins. And with respect to your amendment, the committee didn't support it because we see another model in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u57	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, do you insist on voting? Amendment 124, National Deputy Vlasenko. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[16:42:03]] For-89 The decision is not taken. 125, Knyazevitch. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u58	Thank you, Mr. Head. You are very kind. This edit applies to the next one. For some reason, we narrow down the ranks of those responsible for the arrangements and other decisions taken by the head of the Supreme Court of Judges. Now, according to the law, all those concerned by the activities of the CCW are required to make appropriate head decisions. We are only trying to narrow down the members of the WCC and the staff of the secretariat. I don't understand why. Because there's a whole bunch of other organs that don't work inside the WCC that they have to be responsible for. They can be both judges, and heads of courts, and government officials, administrations, and so on, as is now in practice. What's the logic of this kind of proposal, I never understood. So please take my amendment into account and leave it as it is. This also absorbs these proposals that are proposed for second reading but greatly enhances the ability of the head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u59	Ruslan Petrovich, I'm so glad we're back on the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the 124 rights of Vlasenka and the 125th Amendment of Knyazević are the same rights and motives as the same. The committee didn't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u60	Thank you. Edited 125, National Deputy Knazević. He insists on voting? I'll bet you a vote of 125. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[16:43:47]] For-78 The decision is not taken. 131, Osadchuk. Don't insist. 132nd, Knazevitch. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u61	Thank you, Mr. Head. Look, we've been looking at a bill recently that allowed NAZC to identify both the Head of the NAZK Secretariat and the Head of the Secretariat. Because we believe that this will be a groundless intervention in the Supreme Council and in the activities of NAZK. So the CCW is actually another branch of power, it's a joint institution, an organ of judicial government. And here we feel that we need to impose on us the manner in which the head of the secretariat was appointed. He is to be appointed through the contest and so forth. There we spoke and defended one position, and in principle we agreed to that position. Here, when it comes to an independent branch of authority, we want it to be done as is imposed by another branch of authority. It is not for the WCC itself to decide how it is now, but for some reason it is for the Supreme Council to decide by setting up competition procedures accordingly. I understand that maybe the goal is that whoever it is doesn't get the head of the department. Guys, you don't have to do this the way it's supposed to. Let's not go into the realm that we think is the exclusive authority of the CCW. Just like you said about the Rules and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u62	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Irina Valentine's Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u63	Ruslan Petrovich, I'll read it right. Ruslan Petrovich, I'm going to read the standard right now. "The Secretariat is headed by its head, who is assigned to the post as a result of the competition -- and that's good -- taking into account the provisions of this law and the Ukrainian State Service Act. And that's also good, because the secretariat has to comply with the State Service Act. Edit rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u64	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Ruslan Petrovich? I'm betting on a vote of 132 people's deputies, Knazević. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[16:46:00]] For-80 The decision is not taken. 133 revisions, Alekseiv. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u65	You in the bill are trying to appoint a higher-level secretariat to regulate the State Service Act. But I would like to remind you that the Secretariat of the High Qualifying Commission is not public officials, so it is not possible to regulate it by this very law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, you have the State Service Act left in your hands, if you will look closely at all present. We have rejected this amendment entirely for another reason, because we do not want to regulate the procedures that a judicial branch of power is to establish. The committee did not support number 133.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u67	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote of 133 people's deputies, Alekseyev. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[16:47:10]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Edit number 134, Vlasenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, it's not about models, it's about personality. If we talked about models, we'd be talking about the Supreme Court right now, we'd be talking about changing the grounds for the case, how to reduce the pressure on the Supreme Court. And we just did, at the same time, we've just reduced the amount twice. It's the same thing with the VCC and the VWP. If it were a model bill, we would discuss the role of IDPs, the role of ICCs, the balance between them, the restraints and the opposite. Instead, we did everything we could to free all the members of the R & D and all the members of the R & D, and to assign our own members there. Here's your whole reform. So once again, this is a bill on surnames and personalities. And my readjustment is about a completely technical question. Today, the law states that there may be 48 inspectors appointed by the WCC. You're suggesting that the IDP does this without limiting the number of inspectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u69	With regard to the first part that we are discussing all the time today, the re-launching of the Supreme Court, the UKC and the UKP, I want to say that the question is not about the name, because the models, Sergey Volodymyrovich, are already defined in the Constitution, as defined in the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, and are already defined in the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice. That's why it's all written there. Read the game. As far as you're concerned directly, it applies to no more than 48 inspectors. The committee refused because the number of inspectors we still leave to the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u70	Sergey Volodymyrovich, are you insisting? Sure. I got it. 134th, Vlasenko. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[16:49:23]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 135th, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think after comparing the Supreme Court of Ukraine to the Supreme Court of the United States, I think you can keep your mouth shut a little bit. That's the first one. As far as the correction is concerned. Again, once again, I emphasize, the key question today is the competences of the High Council of Justice and the competences of the Higher Qualifications Commission. We had to actually make one solution from the point of view, as you say, models, whether there's one organ or two, or whether we're dividing these functions, or whether we're not dividing them. If we stay in the position that we have two of these organs, by the way, it's very easy to make changes to the Constitution on this point. I am convinced that, with some motivation, the Supreme Council will support one or the other. But if there are two of these organs left, they cannot be confused by their powers, nor can one organ be governed by another, and so on and so forth. So please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u72	Sergei Volodymyrovich, there is only one body in the Constitution – the Supreme Council of Justice. There's no uncertainty, the committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u73	Thank you. Are you insisting? I'm betting on a 135-seat vote on the initiative of the People's MP Vlasenka, and the committee didn't support it. The offer is to be determined. [[16:51:09]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Amendment 136, National Deputy Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u74	Thank you. As I continue to discuss the amendments, I will point out that, indeed, the High Council of Justice is a constitutional body, but I point out that the powers of the High Council of Justice by this very Constitution are also provided for. Therefore, the Supreme Council of Justice should be empowered to do so, in particular with regard to the approval of certain acts of the Higher Qualifying. The approval of certain acts of the Higher Qualifications Commission, the appointment of staff members of the Higher Qualifications Commission, the appointment of secretaries is totally unfounded and unwarranted. And unlike my colleague Alexeieva, I also point out that the recent amendments to the State Service Act have significantly simplified the mechanisms and admission to work and the release to work of those people who fall under the Act on State Service. And then we leave colleagues at the UCC Secretariat in a slightly different situation than they are now. And then I'm asking you to hold the right hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u75	Sergey Volodymyrovich, you understand perfectly that Bill 1008 wants to change the situation, and of course you want to change the situation with the staff of the secretariat. So the committee tried to leave the model as purposeful as possible and as purposeful as possible to carry out the purpose with which the President introduced the bill. This is why the amendment is not supported. The committee turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u76	Are you insisting? There is a vote of 135 people's deputies Vlasenko. The committee does not support it. Please vote and determine. [[16:53:14]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Next line 136, National Deputy Vlasenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. You're missing her, aren't you? Next. Thank you. Next issue is 137, National MP Sobolev. Don't you insist? Please, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, it's a question of whether we can change the conditions under which people agree to perform very important functions, where we understand very well that these functions should be properly rewarded. My proposal is not to change the conditions, to make them worse if that is the way it is done. I'm not talking about the decisions of constitutional courts anymore, I'm not talking about the logic of at least supporting people who depend on the most important decisions that will then be approved. My suggestion is to support my application and leave the same pay terms that are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u78	Sergio Vladislavovich, 1008 is the President's response to a social request. And I think that the proposal put forward in the bill is just to make sure that the members of the WCCS get the same salary as the judge of the High Court, that's a fair rule. That's why the committee rejected it. Judges of the higher courts, I think we deserve the same respect as the members of the WCC. There is no doubt about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u79	Do you insist on voting? You insist, don't you? There is a vote of 137 people's deputies, Soboljeva. The committee proposes to reject the amendment. Please vote and determine. [[16:55:21]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Next line is number 138, National Deputy Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u80	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. In fact, the problem of paying for work in the judicial system is not related. It is related, but is secondary to the salaries of the judges of the Supreme Court, to the salaries of the judges of the higher specialized courts, to the salaries of the members of the VCC and members of the VCC. The key problem today is that there is a raging gap between the salaries of the judges of the highest courts and the courts of the first instance. So if it was a model bill, as the reporter says, there would be a proposal in this bill, how to resolve this imbalance, how to increase how to make a salary, really, the judges of the first facility, who stand up against the largest pool of court cases, how to bring them to a normal salary, give them an opportunity to work in normal conditions, not talk about what kind of salary the members of the VCC, the VCC and the Supreme Court, and the judges of the High Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, this amendment refers to the same thing as before, we have already discussed with Sergei Vladislavovich. It's the same thing as 137th, and it's the same thing as 140th. The committee did not support her with the same motives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u82	Sergey Volodymyrovich, do you insist on voting? Vote 138 of the Vlasenka People's Deputy. The committee suggests that the amendment be rejected. Please vote and determine. [[16:57:10]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 139 people's deputies in Bujansky. Are you insisting? People's MP, Bujansky, do you insist? 139th. Don't insist. Thank you. Next line is 140 of Slavicsky's national deputy. Are you insisting? There's no Slavsky National Deputy. Yeah? Don't insist. Next line is 141 Puzanova. Is the Puzanov National Deputy insisting? Don't insist. Next issue is 142 People's Deputy Knazević. People's deputy Knjazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u83	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. This amendment relates to the fact that a valid rule of law now states that failure to provide information to the relevant judge at the request of a member of the OHR or of the WCC may be the basis for the discovery of disciplinary and disciplinary conduct. That's enough. As far as I'm concerned, this rule is absorbing, and it involves maybe all the cases and all the times that it's given. But you're saying that only in certain terms are there legal provisions regarding the provision of information. First of all, we have different laws that provide different lines of information. And secondly, why narrow down the law and these things accordingly, if there can be objective reasons, it is not possible to give information to a member of the VCC or a member of the VWP, for example. Let's leave it at that. And in that case, if the judge has been completely consciously refusing to do this for a long time and is going to commit such gross misconduct, that could be the basis for disciplinary conduct. If it is simply for technical reasons or for some important other reason, it cannot be in these short, concise, consonant terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u84	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u85	Questions of time. Of course, a matter of time is one of the questions that is delaying our trials. That is why we remain on the standard proposed by the Presidential Bill. The committee did not support the amendment of Kniazewicz.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u86	Ruslan Petrovich, are you sure you insist? Just say yes. You insist. There is a vote of 142 people's deputies, Knazević. The committee rejected the amendment. Please vote and determine. [[16:59:51]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Next line is number 143 of the People's Deputy Knazević. Please, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u87	Thank you very much, Ruslan Alexiyovich, for your kindness. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, this is what we're talking about. We recently, remember, passed Law 1026, the purpose of which was to make it impossible to abuse the right to challenge judicial decisions before the Great Court of Justice. It was said that filters should be installed because there are complainants who constantly abuse their rights. And this rule, which is proposed in general, is now in the law in force, that in the case of a person being repeatedly brought before a person, it's obvious that unwarranted disciplinary complaints by the UCC may, more specifically, leave them uncontested over the course of the year. We somehow delete this norm and allow what you call spam, simply unconscionable and irresponsible complainants, to challenge the High Council of Justice by blocking its work. The goal of the bill is lost because the goal was to simplify, as you say, their work faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u88	Ruslan Petrovich, I have a beautiful case answer for this. Last week, I received an answer from the High Council of Justice, a request made by the committee of the previous chamber. Not even you, but the last head. That's how fast the High Council of Justice works. So just so that there is no abuse, no abuse, no consideration, the filter has been cleaned up. And what you call spam can essentially protect the rights of our citizens. The committee did not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u89	Ruslan Petrovich, are you insisting? Thank you. There is 143 votes in favour of National Deputy Knjazevik Ruslan Petrovich, and the committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Please vote and determine. [[17:02:02]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Next line is number 144 of Babia’s National Deputies. None. Don't insist. Next line is the 145th Osadchuk People's Deputy. Don't insist. Thank you. Next line is number 46 of the Kalchenka People's Deputies. Don't insist. Thank you. Next issue is the 147th Puzanova People's Deputy. Don't insist. Next line is number 148 of the Krulka People's Deputy. Ivan Ivanovich, you do not insist. Next issue is 149 People's Deputies Krulka. Don't insist. Next issue is 150 people's deputies, Alekseiv. National Deputy Alekseyev, I don't see the National Deputy Alekseyev. Don't insist. Next issue is 151 People's Deputy Knazević. Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u90	Thank you kindly, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, the point is that the authors of the bill want to deprive the judiciary of their right to choose from the appropriate judicial bodies. Then there is no point in considering this law at all, because the main purpose of the activities of the judicial authorities is to delegate their representatives to the judicial authorities. This is the goal of their work, including to protect the interests of judicial self - government. I ask that this rule be left in law, and I insist that the judicial authorities have these powers and exercise them actively, since it is the judicial authorities who are obliged to protect the interests of the judicial community in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u91	Colleagues, this readjustment, it's a question of model integrity again and again. When we realize that we're changing the model, the appointment of the members of the WCC, the election of the judges and so on, we can't just take individual orders and brake the model. Then it would be better at all, really, as our colleagues suggested in the previous meeting, to leave everything as it is. But the goal of Bill 1008 is just to change it, so this is going to interfere with the models. The committee turned it down. The next amendment, by the way, 152nd on the same subject and the same motives on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u92	Now, just a minute. Ruslan Petrovich, you insist on 151 of your right, on the vote, right? Dear colleagues, the ruling of the National MP, Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, is under way. The committee proposes to reject the amendment. Please vote and determine. [[17:05:14]] For-79
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u93	Edit 152, Vlasenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And once again, it's not about any models, it's about people and influences. That's why we're being asked to have the members of the WCC choose the commission. Not appropriate meetings of judges, lawyers, but to select a commission of six people who are easier to control, three of whom represent the Council of Judges, and three international experts. At the same time. Well, it's easier to control than, let's say, a meeting of judges or a meeting of lawyers. This is the first time. Second, we're told that this is an international experience. And I have a simple question for the head of the committee. Tell me, please, you have cited many international examples, not always successful, but many, so in which countries of the world, an organ that performs functions like the CCW, is chosen by foreigners. Please give me an example of any country in the world where the judicial form of authority is essentially chosen by foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u95	Sergei Volodymyrovich, actually. You see, I know your name, I know your father, and you haven't studied mine in a month and a half. I want to tell you that in this case an example of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court has been applied. And we all agreed that the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court contest went as transparently as possible and satisfied society as possible. So now you don't have to manipulate and change your approach. If we say that for us, indeed, judicial self-regulation is important, then the members of the Council of Judges are present on this competitive committee. That's why we insist that this is an order that we have not yet supported, and the committee has rejected it for the same reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u96	153, Makarov. Please turn on the microphone. I'm sorry. Edit 152, Vlasenko. The committee does not support it. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[17:07:54]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Edit 153, Makarov. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u97	I want to go back to the fundamental question that we're discussing right now. We're now discussing the formation of a Senior Qualifications Commission of Judges. At first we agreed that there would be no judges there, in the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, and then we came to the point that the judges would not be involved, a judicial self-government body, in the formation of this body. 126th article, the commission of judicial self - government, stipulates that the election of judges to the High Council of Justice and the High Qualifications Commission of Judges. Justice, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges refer to the orders of judicial self-government and must decide on judicial self-government. But they must choose people who are virtuous, who have been tested by international experts or by the Public Council of Virtue. So that the judges over the judges may be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u98	Guys, we're going on last night's football and this game's off the hook. This is the third revision that was rejected from the same motives. Oleg Anatoliyovich, I just want to remind you that the commission that selects the members of the WCC is prescribed that three members are members of the Council of Judges. Thus, the self - regulation body takes part in this commission. The committee turned it down. They're 3 equal revisions, they've been rejected by one motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u99	Are you insisting on your right? 153, Makarov. You insist, don't you? I'm betting on a vote of 153 people's deputies, Makarov. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[17:10:18]] Z-71 Edit 154, Alekseiv. Is he insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u100	This is another law on the subject of forming the judicial corps of its representatives to the UCC. The fact is that the Council of Europe, in its recommendations, has indicated that the judiciary must have the majority of judges elected by the judges themselves, and you suggest that the meeting of judges should not form a personal composition of the High Qualifying Commission. This is a violation of the principle, this principle recommended by the Council of Europe. Yet, we insist that this principle remain, and the only body that forms the High Qualifying Commission is the meeting of judges. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u101	Colleagues, the idea of the bill to move away from these events, this post-Radians, you know, approach: the congresses of judges, the gatherings of lawyers, the gatherings of prosecutors, the gatherings of colleges are wonderful. But when we're talking about changing this model, the change in the model is being made to form a competitive commission. And here, if we support assemblies, leave assemblies, then we immediately clean up the formation of a competitive commission. You can't take one model and mix it with another. Either leave the assemblies and you see the work of these assemblies for today, or follow the new model proposed by the President, and create a commission, a competitive commission. The idea of the bill is to create a competitive commission. All of these changes that take away from the model of the competition commission have been rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u102	Thank you. 154th. Are you insisting? I'm betting on a vote of 154, Alekseyev. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[17:12:40]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Edit 155, Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u103	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm going to continue with the football theme, and I'm going to say that even though our collection was kept in the minority yesterday, we won. And in connection with the conventions. Unfortunately, we can take the word "registration" differently. You could call it a convention, a meeting, whatever, but this form of judicial self-government is in all the countries of the world. Moreover, it is in the Ukrainian Constitution. So as long as it's in the Ukrainian Constitution, we can't abandon it at the legislative level, and that's the right thing to do. So I've asked you a lot of questions, and the projection that's in the Constitution, except there's only a conference of prosecutors, unfortunately, it's not here, and maybe it's not there, and it's there for the PDA, and it's true. And it's also a practice, by the way, of the European world. Therefore, I ask you to take into account my offer not to throw away the assembly of judges as the highest authority of judicial self - government from those subjects who are to be identified in the formation of judicial authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u104	Well, colleagues, the answer is, move from assemblies to the formation of a competitive commission formed by the self - regulation body of the Council of Judges and the public. Here's the point. Then we will insist on this procedure. We can't change the organ-forming procedure, or we'll leave what we've seen before. So the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u105	Thank you. Ruslan Petrovich, you insist on voting, right? I'll bet you a vote of 155 people's deputies, Knazević. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[17:14:42]] For-86 A little too much for the next time, perhaps. The decision is not taken. 156th Amendment, People's Deputy Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u106	Thank you, Mr. Head. I go back to the numerous conclusions of the Venice Commission on the issue of judicial reform. All of them talk about the fact that organs that have the right to apply discipline to judges or to form a judicial corps should, in most cases, be made up of judges chosen by judges. That's what the formula is. And even Victor Janukovic was forced to make appropriate changes to the legislation and to push the system to make it look like it was mostly made by judges, and it was mostly made up of judges. You're proposing a completely different thing. You're talking about the formula "three plus three," but look below how the voting takes place. Voting takes place in such a way that a majority is needed, but the majority, which requires three votes of international experts. So in fact, the votes of the Judges' Council seem secondary to what you're proposing. So once again, it's not about models, it's about names and influences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, if you open the papers now, you'll see that the 154, 155 that the hall just didn't support, 156 and 157 are all the same, and the committee rejected them with the same motives. We leave the model of the competition commission intact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u108	You insist, do I understand, Sergei? I'm betting on a vote of 156 people's deputies, Vlasenko, and the committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[17:16:50]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next line is 157th, Makarov. Also insists, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u109	I want to stand up for the higher authority of judicial self-government, the assembly of judges. I would like to remind you that according to article 130 pr. In order to protect the professional interests of the judges and to resolve the internal affairs of the courts, judicial self-government is in force under the law. Now it's written that the judge. The meeting of judges of Ukraine elects members of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges and decides to release them from office in accordance with this law. Once again, I insist that in an independent Ukraine, once candidates have reached the conclusion of the Public Council of Goodness or of the Council of International Experts, or another body created by international partners that can conclude on the integrity of the candidates, the decision must be made by the assembly of judges, the election and the appeal. That's what this is about. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u110	Colleagues, no one goes to court at all. The purpose of the bill is to make the court independent. And so I insist once again that there are three representatives of the Council of Judges on the one hand and the public on the other. And the gathering of judges is certainly a powerful body and will work for the benefit of Ukraine. Let's do this: it doesn't have anything like you say now that's not going to have any significant influence. The committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u111	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Then let's move on. 158th, Aleksiev. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, 158 revisions are also about the meeting of judges. The point is that judicial self-government is that judges and judicial authorities that elect judges should give a representative mandate to the Ukrainian judiciary, not to the three judges that the Supreme Council of Justice has elected to a competitive commission, is a lack of representational mandate. It is the assembly of judges, or call it not a convention, that you name it whatever the commission is, but it is the representative mandate that must be given to the highest authority represented by the judges. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u113	This is not about the Higher Council of Justice. It is about three individuals from the Council of Judges. So once again, there are no restrictions on the organs of judicial self-government. The committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u114	Do you insist on voting? I'll bet you a vote of 158 people's deputies, Alekseyev. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[17:20:27]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 59, Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u115	Thank you, Mr. Head. Perhaps I did not express myself very clearly. I'll try to explain my position again. There is no question of what we should choose — for example, a meeting of judges or a competitive commission. No, not at all. My proposal from the very beginning was that we should start a competitive commission institution with the bodies that should be the subject of the formation, including a judicial self-government body — a meeting of judges. And that's right, as we have and I've called the example of the formation of the Constitutional Court. On competitive grounds, all the bodies that have the constitutional right to do so are now forming these organs. So there's a competition commission, it's defining the candidates, and then it's forming its part of the number of candidates that the competition commission has offered. There's nothing else to talk about. We ask for such a model to be initiated, not even to remove such a type of subject with the possibility of forming a VCC. It's not about the competition commission, let's not manipulate it. We're not against a competitive commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u116	Colleagues, regulation 158, which we just talked about, the People's Deputy Alexieva, this regulation of 159 members of Knyazević, then Vlasenka and Makarov, are equal rights for the same reasons. The committee rejected them. I beg your pardon. I'm not going to explain these four revisions again. The committee turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u117	Do you insist on voting? Thank you. 160 lashes, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u118	Aren't we going to vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u119	No, it's not. Don't insist. Ruslan Petrovich does not insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u120	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, the honourable reporter mentioned at the outset that a meeting of judges is a Soviet tradition. Then she said that no one intervened at the judge’s meeting. You know, it's kind of like, first of all, it looks kind of controversial, on the one hand. But the adoption of the bill in such a form means one thing: the honourable members of the assembly of judges, please sit down, have a cup of tea, coffee, and split up, and no practical powers to influence the work of your system are actually left. So once again, I emphasize and turn to the session room. According to the numerous, numerous recommendations of the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission, as the largest expert body of the Council of Europe, the bodies that have disciplinary powers vis-à-vis judges are chosen from among the judges, the judges themselves, and no more from the commissions, and no more from international experts. Thank you. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u121	Sergey Volodymyrovich, let's not manipulate. It was not that the meeting of judges was rudimentary, but that the approach to determining the members was that of the Soviet Rudimentary. I don't want to tell you how delegates are merged, how delegates are chosen, how they are controlled, how delegates vote. Open up, here are just open sources, look, look at Judge Breguei and the various other judges. So it was about Soviet orditional approaches, not the reunion of judges. You don't have to manipulate. And the amendment is rejected on the same grounds as the amendment of Alekseiv and Knazevitch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u122	Sergey Volodymyrovich, do you insist that you be like Ruslan Petrovich? Still, you insist. Okay. I'm betting on a vote of 160 people's deputies Vlasenko. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[17:24:35]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 161, People's Deputy Makarov. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u123	Colleagues, I would like to say that this amendment and this rule govern that if a meeting of judges is convened to elect members of the High Council of Justice, as well as members of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges, which we are currently discussing, the announcement should be no later than 45 days before the meeting. I think this rule can stay because it says "if" at the beginning. That is, it provides for the election of both the members of the High Council of Justice and the members of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges, and in such a case the announcement of such a meeting must be announced in 45 days in order to be prepared, nominated, checked for the integrity of the candidates and so on, only then to gather the assembly, vote and identify the candidates and the members of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u124	It is an assembly procedure, and the model has moved away from the convention. So, of course, it's not supported because it changes and stops the model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u125	Do you insist on voting? I'll bet you a vote of 161 people's deputies, Makarov. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[17:26:18]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Edit number 163, Aleksiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u126	This amendment refers to the reduction in the basic size of the salary of the Supreme Court judges. The fact is that the European Charter on the Status of Judges states that it is the provision of justice that is the basic criterion for the independence of judges. There is also a constitutional principle that has been reflected in our national legislation, which also does not allow the provision of judges to be reduced. So I ask you to vote on this amendment and to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u127	Colleagues, this is the next major sensitive moment in this bill. The first thing we've talked about on a number of occasions today is the decline in the judges of the Supreme Court. The second is the reward of the judges of the Supreme Court. Based on those postulates that the remuneration of judges of the Supreme Court is of course important, is essential for effective justice and the prevention of corruption offences, on the other hand, it must be relevant to the remuneration of judges of other judges and to those salaries that Ukrainian citizens receive. So, of course, the presidential bill contains these numbers that you see, 55, and the committee will stand on them. You'll see from here on out. The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u128	Do you insist on voting? 163 revisions, Alekseiv. The committee didn't support it. Please be sure, I'll put it to a vote. [[17:28:13]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Edit 164, Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u129	Thank you, Mr. Head. The fact that we already have the practice of the Constitutional Court is that the Constitutional Court has ruled that there is an unconstitutional violation of the principle of non-deductive pay for judges, we already have that practice. I assure you that this rule will necessarily go through a review of the Constitutional Court, and we will see what the decision will be. But that's not even the point right now. Imagine we're reducing the salary of the Supreme Court judge to about the salary of the Court of Appeal. Who will work for the Supreme Court? What's the point of working, if you can work quietly in the Court of Appeal, you take a huge amount of responsibility off your shoulders, you know there's still a Supreme Court over you to review your decision. And what, accordingly, is the motivation for those who dream of pursuing their judicial career all their life and who eventually receive no material reward? There is no such thing in any country of the world. So we're taking away the possibility of getting better footage in the Supreme Court. If there is a choice to go to the same salary for another judicial office, and people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u130	Colleagues, it's a great question, money. I think everyone's going to be interested right now because we're in the budgetary process. Let's just translate these numbers into money. When we had a committee (30th, I think it was September), and we asked the Head of the Supreme Court what the average salary of the Supreme Court judge. From 250,000 to 350,000 dollars in the Supreme Court. When we asked the Head of the Constitutional Court, what a reward, once a judge resigns (this is not before this bill, but also). - Three million dollars once. When we asked the U.S.A. how much money you need (only the State Court Administration) you need 34 billion dollars from the State Court Administration. So let us understand that, of course, our justice must be properly rewarded. But the reward that the people of Ukraine will receive is that we will soon have no such money.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u131	Thank you, Irina Valentine's Day. Are you insisting on your right? Are you insisting? I'm betting on a vote of 164 people's deputies, Knazević. The committee does not support it. Please identify and vote. [[17:31:14]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Regulation 165. Lukashev. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u132	Lukashev Alexander. Dear Irina Valentinovna, I would like to remind you that, for today in Ukraine, 58 judges of the former Supreme Court of Ukraine and judges of the higher specialized courts who have been disqualified but receive a salary. If we are to care for the economy of the budget, we need to count that for almost two years these people have been paid a salary without judicial authority. So if we go back to today's decline in the number of Supreme Courts today, we're going to reduce by at least 92 judges, we're going to get 150. One hundred will remain the courts with the authority and 150 unreleased untranslated ones who will receive as much wages as they do today. If we care about the social assessment of the judge's reward, if we care about the economy of the budget, let's be consistent. And if we just reform the Supreme Court as we need it, that's another matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, let's not mislead our constituents. Nine judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine now have no authority, yes, we understand that they receive this reward, 77 employees of the Supreme Court of Ukraine apparatus. But it wasn't because the bill passed, but because the bill didn't solve the question: what is this, liquidation or reorganization? And we see this case now in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. So here's a completely different legal nature, that's the first. Secondly, the question of a judge's reward is not going to work in this case, it's absolutely not in the section of what you're talking about, the judges without authorization. It's a completely different process. And there's no question about judges without language at all, and there's no need to be misled. And the amendment applies, like the previous two, to the reduction in the remuneration coefficient, all of it. The committee didn't support it. Similarly, the following amendment refers to the same moment from Macarov and Osadchuk. The committee with the same motives did not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u134	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Are you insisting? I'll bet you a vote of 165. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[17:33:59]] For-74. The decision is not taken. 166, Osadchuk. Thank you. 167th, Makarov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u135	The Montreal Universal Declaration on the Independence of Justice of 1983 and the 2001 Advisory Council of European Judges on the Standards of Independence of the Judiciary and the Invariate of Judges states that the term of judges in office, their independence, social guarantees, adequate pay and working conditions are guaranteed by law and cannot be changed in the direction of reduction. I am absolutely convinced that independence, the incorruptibility of judges is guaranteed by the selection of virtuous judges, the merit of wages and anti-corruption legislation, according to which judges declare their property, and if they violate the law, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau can violate the case and bring the judge to justice. I am convinced that a reduction in the salaries of judges can push judges to earn money.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u136	The president fulfilled his promise of an adequate judicial award in the bill, so the bill was incorporated into the bill. All the previous amendments applied to reject this rule on the adequacy of the court's remuneration, and all the remedies were rejected for the same reasons: to leave the presidential model of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u137	Do you insist on voting? Are you insisting? I'll bet you a vote of 167, People's Deputy Makarov. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[17:36:13]] For-80 The decision is not taken. 168 law, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u138	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. In the last call of the Supreme Council, when this law was passed, I didn't vote for it and thought for it at the time, and now I think that these salaries are too much for the functions that the Supreme Court judges perform. But if the State has taken on such a guarantee and this is indeed, as said by a colleague of Macarov, under international obligations is a guarantee of the independence of judges, these rules cannot be changed along the way, they cannot be changed. Moreover, with the decline in the number of Supreme Court judges, they are reduced, more faithfully, removed from the law the size of their wages, so that not only in manual mode it can be corrected, but in quasi, super manual mode it can be done. So once again, it's not about systemic change, it's not about the law on systemic change, it's about the point of private personal influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u139	The committee's amendment is not supported because, again, it refers to the direct programming promises made by President Zelensky, and he put them in the presidential bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u140	You insist, yes, on the vote? Amendment No. 168, National Deputy Vlasenko. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[17:37:58]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 169, People's Deputy Lukashev. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u141	Lukashev Alexander. I would like to recall further the position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which, in its decision of 4 December 2018, indicated that the reduction of the legislative authority in the size of the official salary of the judge leads to a decrease in the size of the judge's remuneration, which is a violation of the independence of the judge and a precondition for the influence of both the individual judge and the judicial authority in general. And one more moment is important. If the President is talking about the need to ensure that the reward is adequate, I have a question about the criterion. How do we justify the criteria of adequacy? Where does it come from? I'd like to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u142	I'm going to start at the second part right now, because the first part of the answer is the same thing as the same thing. What is an adequate judicial reward? Colleagues, we all represent the interests of our constituents. All of us are well aware of the wages of our electorate. And 250-350,000 dollars a month on the voter's salary, in the best case scenario, the average salary of 10,000 dollars is definitely an inadequate judge's reward. The committee did not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u143	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? 170 right. You will? Please turn on Lukashev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u144	I insist on my right to receive monthly life support from judges who have passed, who have been positively qualified, or who have won the competition to serve as a judge. That question is, well, very lifelike, and if the judge is 63 at this point, and at 65 he has to leave office, in that case we have discrimination against judges who have no physical ability to work three years in office from the date of approval of the decision on the positive conduct of qualification or from the day of victory in the competition for the appointment of a judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u145	The edit is rejected in relation to. Once again, leave the model and don't change the vector of judicial reform initiated by the President. The committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u146	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 170, Lukashev, the committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[17:41:29]] For-74. The decision is not taken. 173 revisions, Alekseiv. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u147	Dear colleagues, there is some balance in the current legislation when there is a Higher Qualifying Commission dealing with qualified issues of judges, and there is a Supreme Council of Justice that carries out ceremonial functions and is more involved in disciplinary matters and dismissals of judges. This balance was welcomed in its time by the Venice Commission. What are we trying to do now? We form a fully higher commission by the Higher Council of Justice and make it dependent on what violates the balance of the judiciary. It's unacceptable. I've already spoken in my previous speech: and just eliminate the Higher Qualifying Commission, do the Department of the High Council of Justice, why do you do these models. Please support my drafting and preserve the existing model in the legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u148	Colleagues, well, what balance are you talking about? There is the Supreme Council of Justice, which is a constitutional body established in the Constitution and which is dedicated to a separate special law. And there's a Senior Qualifications Commission, a body dedicated to the part of the Judicial and Judicial Status Act. So you can't even compare these two organs. A great constitutional body and body that helps to carry out a qualified evaluation of judges. Since we've had it all over our heads for the last two years, we've seen 2,000 vacant seats in the courts, we've seen canceled competitions that you can see are canceling, and the Supreme Court canceled this competition, and the VCC itself cancelled its competition. What balance are you talking about? So, really, the model changes to the fact that GDP has to be responsible for being the highest body of government under the Constitution. That's it. It's clear and clear. Edit rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u149	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 173 people's deputies, Alekseyev. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[17:44:07]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Edit 174, Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u150	Thank you, Mr. Head. I want to tell you that, in principle, I welcome the decision of the committee to which the rules of the Higher Qualifications Committee have been removed as a mandatory document that should be approved by the GWP and left in the purview of the VCC. But this is just the first part of this paragraph. And then all the order, methodology, any methodology, position and so on -- everything that comes out of this regulation under this rule has been left to be authorized by the IDP. I'm asking you to bring it into line with our amendment, which we have already adopted on the committee, and this whole paragraph is removed, because illogically, the left-hand side of these things that we're talking about are coming out of the regulation. If the WCC itself approves the regulation, how should the documents that come out of it approve the GWP? That's not right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u151	The idea of the bill is to convey, in fact, the actual highest powers of the IDP, the actual ones. And directly these tools are the actual powers of the High Council of Justice, because this body really not only has a lot of authority, but also has a responsibility for everything that happens in the judiciary branch of government. Give them any tools. Edit rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u152	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? 174 people's deputy Knazević's permission was not supported by the committee, and I propose to put it to a vote. Please identify and vote. [[17:46:05]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Edit 175, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u153	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Many today referred to the President’s electoral program. Then I read it carefully again before my rights were available. And I quote, "The judicial branch of power should become power, not a servant to the President, the government, the Parliament and the local authorities. We will restore trust and respect for the court. For simple disputes, peaceful judges who are elected by the people, for criminal crimes, an effective jury court made up of the people." So you don't have to speculate on President Zelensky's pre-election program, it's all very clear. I support every word in this program. But unfortunately, this bill has very little to do with this pre-election program, because so far all the mechanisms that are being discussed, they look very much like an attempt to put the court under control and make someone a servant of it, but certainly not a servant of the people. And my amendment concerns the unconstitutional extension of the powers of the High Council for Justice, whose mandate is provided for in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u154	Edited by Sergija Volodymyrovich is the identical work of Ruslan Petrovich, who has just not been supported by the Hall. And the same law is going to be the next 176th in Oleg Anatoliyovich, with the same motivation: the Higher Council of Justice has real possibilities. And for quoting the Greens program, there's a special thank you. The program contains up to 10,000 characters. And of course, every word is deciphered in action. And this is Bill 1008, the first step in implementing the Greens programme. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u155	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Are you insisting? Don't insist. Wait. I'm betting on a vote of 175 people's deputies Vlasenko. She was not supported by the committee. So please identify and vote. [[17:48:25]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Edit 176, Makarov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u156	I want to go back to what really is the leadership's wisdom, the deputy, any other person's wisdom is that he can make a professional promise, do it. And in the execution process, if professionals advise, give arguments, they should be with them. They need to be heard and accepted. In this case, we're talking about there's no promise of lowering wages for judges. That's why I couldn't make a deal. I'll tell you what else, it's not just corruption risks, but it'll also encourage decent judges to move to another sector of the economy, to work in other places where the wage is guaranteed, unlike what we do with you and change wages. And we take off the salary a year and a half after we're assigned. In this direction, I believe that the mandate of the High Council of Justice is set out in the Constitution, we cannot extend it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u157	Irina Valentine's Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u158	Colleagues, Oleg Anatoliyovich told you about the judge's reward, and the remedies that we're talking about are the same things that we've just discussed, Ruslan Petrovic's and Sergey Volodymyrovich's rights apply to the transfer to the High Council of Justice of specific mechanisms for the conduct of certain procedures. So the judge's reward for what Oleg Anatoliyovich was talking about right now is another, and as far as this amendment is concerned, her committee rejected it on the same grounds, they were all the same, the same reasons for the rejection were.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u159	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 176 people's MP Makarov, not supported by the committee, so I'm asking you to identify and vote. [[17:50:48]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Edit 178, Jurchisin. Don't insist. 181, Osadchuk. 184th, Knazevitch. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u160	Dear Mr. Head!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u161	Are you insisting? Ruslan Petrovich, you insist, I just can't see you? Please turn on the Knyazevitch microphone, correct 184.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u162	Dear Mr. Head, I thought you already felt me. I'm going to insist, in principle, because it's very important to me, because it's very important to me. The point is that now the valid norm predicts that only a qualified majority, or two thirds, can release an IDP member, 14 votes can do that. And now it's predicted that this can be done by the simple majority, even by the presence of, respectively, members of the R & D. So I think it would be unfair to lower this kind of plank, let's go back to the way it is. Because it's an extraordinary solution to the IDP so that there's no temptation in the very activity of the IDP to somehow find a basis for releasing a colleague from office. Because there's all kinds of conflicts inside the IDP, and so on. Let's make this kind of perspective impossible, believe me, it's not going to be easy to make two thirds of a decision. So I'm going to suggest there's still two thirds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u163	Ruslan Petrovich, all your work is very important. And in their majority, they only contain one word: "refuse." So your amendments are all designed to ensure that Bill 1008 doesn't take place in principle and essentially, and everything is left in the law as it is. The committee therefore does not support the rejection of these amendments, but supports the Presidential Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u164	Thank you. Ruslan Petrovich, do you insist on voting? Or is it generally impossible to do all the work? I'm betting on the vote of 184 People's Deputy Knazević. Please identify and vote, it is not supported by the committee. [[17:53:23]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 185, Alekseiv.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u165	Dear colleagues, my papers are also very important, as are the corrections of our colleagues Knazević, Vlasenka, Makarov and others, but they all contain the word "relief". This amendment refers to a reduction in the period of disciplinary conduct of the judge to 30 days. This is really not the right norm. But thanks to the committee, there's still Stefanchuk's revision of the same content that's taken into account, and that's a very smart decision, and yet they've returned within 60 days. So I ask my right 185, 192 and 248 not to bet on confirmation, because Mr. Stefanchuk's similar rights are already taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u166	Please repeat any changes you may not make.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u167	Amendments 185, 192, and 248. There's no point in putting them on the stand because Stefanchuk's analogous rights are already taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u168	Thank you. Next issue is 187. Sobolen. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u169	Sobolje, Fatherland. Back to the pre-election promises. When six people in Naftogaz pay a premium of $35 million. One billion dollars, and citizens are raised ten times in this time, when in government companies millions of wages are paid, while at the same time tens of thousands of workers are being thrown out or put in minimum, it's the fulfillment of a pre-election promise, and when we want to protect the judges so that no one who wants to go in with bribes has the right to go in there, that's what turns out to be the failure of the election promises. What is the purpose of this bill? To have access to justice for our citizens. Does it improve access? No, it's not. The number of judges is shrinking, and it is difficult to deal with cases, since it is not known how long it will take for you to recruit new judges. I insist on my right. Carry out the electoral process.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u170	In this case, colleagues, we're going back to the money. It's an exclusive coefficient of one and a half. However, the basic salaries referred to in the Supreme Court remain the same. We are now talking about the High Council of Justice, the members of the High Council of Justice and their official salaries, which will be equal to the salaries of the judges of the Supreme Court. In our view, it seems quite appropriate and understandable that members of the High Council of Justice should not only be professional and conscientious, but also receive a similar salary. So we don't see any violation of anyone's rights here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u171	Are you insisting? I'm betting on the vote of 187 People's Deputies Soboljeva. The committee does not support it. Please identify and vote. [[17:56:59]] Z-70. 170-yes. 70, I'm sorry. The decision is not taken. Amendment 188, National Deputy Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u172	I'm going back to my ones that have really been bugged. The issue of financing the judiciary is to a lesser extent the financing of the HCC, the HIPC and the Supreme Court. The problem with the financing of the judicial system is that there is a huge gap between wages and the provision of first-instance judges, the Court of Appeal and, on the one hand, the Supreme Court, the PSC and the CDC. So if this was a model bill -- about models like we're trying to convince the reporter, this bill would decide how to prove the wages of the first-institution judges, the appeals to such a level as to ensure the independence of the judiciary. Instead, they want to force us to cancel what the State has already promised the right officials, which is wrong in terms of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u173	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 188 people's deputies Vlasenko. The committee does not support it. Please identify and vote. [[17:58:38]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. 189 law, Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u174	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head. But I would like to point out that I don't have any remedies for rejection. I've got some kind of corrections essentially, including the exclusion, and the deviation is the position of the committee. This is an amendment, this is not about money. And it doesn't have to be about money. There must be a discussion as to whether we want independent justice in Ukraine or not. Because I remind you that at a time when judges, like the Supreme Court, get a decent salary, we don't have any facts, like bribery in the Supreme Court. None. Until then, there were, well, I don't want to call them, but they were. I don't call them numerous, but that was the facts. And I assure you that the fact that we're reducing the coefficient for judicial authorities is wrong, because in all the countries of the world, the government of judges is always paid higher than the common judges, because it deals with issues, including judges. And if we have already reduced the salary of the judge of the Supreme Court, to what should this coefficient be removed? So it turns out that we're actually comparing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u175	Ruslan Petrovich, first of all, was clearly referred to as "exclusion" because even in your direction 189 twice "exclusion": subparagraph 3 delete and modify article 20 and again subparagraph 3 delete and modify article 21. That's why I'm really talking about your revisions, it's about shutting down the word. That's the first one. Secondly, we are not talking about the judges of the Supreme Court right now, nor are we comparing them with corruption, because any corruption can only be discussed after the verdicts of the court, not before that. These rights apply directly to members of the High Council of Justice. So you don't have to mix horses here and everything in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m1.u176	Thank you. Are you insisting on this right, on the vote? Oh, no? Thank you very much. And, dear colleagues, I welcome you, the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We'll start our work tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you.
