ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues! It is a pleasure to see so many members of the National Assembly on Friday, especially after the festival. Good afternoon, members of the media, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council! Please prepare for registration, Your Honor. Are you ready to register, Your Honor? Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, are you ready? Finally, all the national deputies received cards and were ready to register. Not all of them. Shall we call it a name? Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? Did everyone get the cards yet? Hello. Please register. [[10:07:21]] 319 Ukrainian national deputies registered. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to welcome three of our colleagues: Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowski, Oleg Valeriyovich Seminski and Dmitri Yuriovich Špenov, to their birthday today. Hello! I already talked to some of them in the morning. I want health, strength, and success from all the national MPs. Once again with the holiday! Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, an hour of questions to the Government is held on Friday, from 10 a.m. to Friday. A meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is attended by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexei Valeriyovich Honcharuk, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please welcome them. [[Applause]] The Conciliation Council defined the theme "hours of questions to the government." Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will answer questions about the resolution of the conflict in eastern Ukraine in the context of the "normal meeting" on 9 December 2019. Yet. Dear colleagues, how about a little quieter in the hall? Dear colleagues! There was an appeal. Dear Minister of Transport and Infrastructure! Can I have a little quieter? Dear colleagues, there have been several factions requesting a change of procedure today's "hours of questioning to the government." Half an hour to ask a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 30 minutes to the Minister of Finance in connection with the latest developments in the state in the information space, and 30 minutes to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to the questions and answers. But the next form of our work was proposed. Dear colleagues, please be quiet in the hall! Why don't you take your place as Prime Minister? Thank you. The following form of our work was proposed: cancel the break between 12 and 12:30; the second is not to address the question of "Rose" for half an hour. That is to say, until 1:30 p.m. continue the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and from 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. read the requests of Ukrainian national deputies. Would you please tell me there's no objection? Should we vote on this? None. I can't hear you. There'll be a representative of the Ministry. Dear colleagues, let's move on to our work. I suggest. Deputy Foreign Minister Vasil Miranovic Bodnar is invited to the podium.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, it is a great honor for me to address you today. On behalf of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I want literally a few words, first of all, of the introductions, of the results of the Normandy summit. First. The extreme summit of the Normandy Four on the other hand has demonstrated our loyalty to the peaceful settlement of the conflict at Donbas. In this context, we are extremely grateful to our partners in France and Germany for their support. It was these actions of the Ukrainian side that enabled the Paris summit of leaders of the countries of the 'Normand format', which was about restarting the deployment of forces and agreeing on the text on the basis of the 'Stinmeyer formula'. The meeting confirmed the priority of implementing the safe route of the Minsk Accords. Our main task now is to force the Kremlin to implement the agreements reached in Paris. At the same time, it is worth noting that Ukraine has already begun to implement its part of the arrangement. This is primarily about the Supreme Council -- I thank you for that -- the decision to continue the Act on the act of status. A special order of local self - government in certain areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. It is important to understand that in itself the meeting of the leaders of the Normandy Quartet cannot be seen as a basis for reducing political or sanctioning pressure on Moscow. The main thing is to ensure international solidarity in order to force the Russian Federation to fully ensure that its commitments are fulfilled. In this regard, I would like to go straight to the questions posed by the factions. Thus, the first question, which was actually signed in Paris and what commitments Ukraine had made. That question was asked by "The Opposition Platform for Life." The answer is very simple. Ukraine signed one document, or agreed to one document, which is called the General Agreed Conclusions of the Paris Summit in "Normand Format". They include themselves, they're public, but I want to remind you briefly: they include, above all, immediate measures to stabilize the situation in the conflict zone. This is about confirming the commitment of the parties to a full and comprehensive implementation of the Ceasefire regime, reinforced by the actual implementation of measures; the development and implementation of an updated Mine Action Plan based on the decisions of the Tripartite Contact Group; the harmonization within the Tripartite Contact Group of three additional areas of separation for the purpose of the deployment of forces and resources by the end of the 20th; the release and exchange of detained persons, which begins with the implementation of the "all to all" principle, beginning with the "established-unestablished" principle, on the understanding that international organizations, including the International Red Cross, will be granted full and unconditional admission to all detained persons. As the TCG discussions continue, we look forward to a positive solution. In addition, it is anticipated that arrangements will be reached within 30 days of the Tripartite Contact Group on new crossing points through the line, primarily based on humanitarian criteria. A special requirement is required to ensure reliable access throughout Ukraine for the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission (MSM). In addition, the measures taken to implement the political positions in Minsk, which presuppose, above all, the interest in reaching agreements in the framework of the "Normand format" and the Tripartite Contact Group on all the legal aspects of the special order of local self-government, that is, the special status, of the individual areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. As indicated in the 2015 Minsk Agreement Implementation Package, and above all to ensure its functioning. It is also about the need to include Steinmeyer in Ukrainian legislation according to a version agreed by the Tripartite Contact Group. Ukraine did not assume any other obligations, either in writing or in other ways. The second question of the same faction was, "How does the Ministry plan to organize the work on reconciliation with all sides of the conflict, including Donetsk and Lugansk?" First of all, I would like to say that the competence of the Ministry of Internal Affairs does not belong to the question of Constitution, amnesty, an election organization, because it is an issue of internal politics. What's more, I want to tell you that the side of the conflict in Donbas is Ukraine and Russia. If anyone wants to communicate with the Lugansk and Donetsk representatives, we have a tripartite contact group that discusses the entire settlement package. In this context, the function of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to promote a consolidated position of the Ukrainian side from all aspects of the settlement of the conflict in Donbas into the agenda of the "Normand" negotiations, consultations within the Tripartite Contact Group and its due support, based on Ukraine's national interests. And the consolidated position of the Ukrainian side should be produced by all authorities, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I turn to the questions raised by the MP's faction of the political party "European Solidarity". The question is, "Why did the Ministry of Defense, the President of Ukraine, pull a -- a strange question -- army in conditions of non-compliance with the cease-fire regime? The withdrawal of Ukrainian troops took place in the absence of execution, as if in compliance with the cease-fire regime, as provided for in the Minsk Protocol." First of all, I'd like to pay attention to terminology. It's not about taking away, it's not about the Ukrainian side taking troops, it's about distributing forces and means one kilometer from each side of the collision line, that is, it's a two-way and symmetrical process. To be honest, divorce is a kind of modernization of the approach to Minsk to ensure a ceasefire and a de-escalation. As you know, his prerequisite was to maintain a seven-day period within each of the so-called pilot areas of power and resources agreed in 2016. During this period, a verification was carried out by the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission, which was confirmed in the daily reports of the mission for each of the areas where the divorce took place. And the Ukrainian side, I remind you, fulfilled its commitments, which later allowed for the "Normandy Four" summit in Paris. The second question. "Why did President Zelenski exclude the concept of the restoration of international law, Ukraine's jurisdiction in eastern Ukraine, the introduction of an international peacekeeping force into the ORDLO? And why was this a key issue at the 2016 Berlin meeting of the Normandy Four? See, first of all, this thesis does not correspond to reality. None of the leaders of the State or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have said a word about the fact that a peacekeeping mission is not an option to resolve the conflict at Donbassa. In fact, it was from both the President's mouth and the Minister's mouth that in the event of failure of negotiations and settlement within an existing mine track, the option of introducing peacekeeping forces remains relevant. Of course, there are many developments, one of them prepared by the International University for Peace on Blue Helmets in Donbas. In addition, we know how the previous plan of action on the possibility of launching a peacekeeping mission in the territory of the occupied Donbas has been worked out. I would like to remind you that the Ukrainian side is ready to rebuild for a purpose. I just have such a small observation that it was the discussion, the substantive discussion with foreign partners on the issue that started in 2017. And at the Nordic summit. In the "Normandy format" of 16th year, the aim was to develop a road map for the implementation of the Minsk Agreements, which, according to the participants, should have determined the balance and consistency of the mutually agreed and synchronized steps of Ukraine and Russia in the security and political spheres. And you know, then this road map was blocked by the Russian side. The next question is, "How does the Ukrainian side plan to meet the requirements reflected in the communiqué of the Paris meeting about the so-called "special status of Donbas"? Is this a draft amendment to the Constitution on the granting of the right to establish the legal status of administrative and territorial units?" The answer is very simple. All the issues related to the implementation of the political provisions of the Minsk Accords -- and we are here on the priority of addressing the security aspects -- will be developed by experts in the framework of the "normal format" and the Minsk and TCG courses. And the basis of this process is the process of decentralization, which you, honourable national deputies, will be working specifically to make changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. On the other hand, I would like to say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs within its competences will also be involved in the processing of relevant regulations. The next question is, "What does it mean to incorporate Steinmeyer's formula into Ukrainian legislation, what are your options?" How do you know that the Steinmayer formula itself is the mechanism for the introduction of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Districts of Donetsk and Lugansk. So it's about making changes to the law itself, to the law that you've extended on December 12. It's not about what we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u3	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u4	Thank you. This isn't about us taking the Steinmeier formula. and to do so in order to make it possible to implement the formulation itself, when the special status takes effect, and when the law that we're implementing comes into effect, the scheme itself is to be prescribed in the law itself. This will be discussed in the same way, and you, as national deputies, will be involved in its work. Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u5	Thank you. There is a request to sign up for a question to the speaker. People's deputies please sign up for questions. Please give the floor to Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich, MP for the Future. Is there a lube in the hall? Turn on the lubinca microphone, please. Apparatus! Pass the word to Batenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u6	Dear Ruslan Alexiyovich, Mr. Deputy Minister, one more question to you about the last sentence if you hadn't finished. We are concerned about the situation of Ukraine's more than 3 million voters, who are concerned about the end of the war today, as you imagine the technical issue of incorporation, as recorded in the Standard Protocol, the Steinmayer formulas in Ukrainian legislation, according to the version agreed by the Normandy Four and the Tripartite Contact Group, given that the law has already been adopted. The technical participation of the deputies, the participation of the Ministry and the decryption of this concept is the Steinmeyer formula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u7	The Steinmayer formula itself provides for the introduction of the Special Status Act after the election. This should be prescribed in the law itself, in the text of the law, that is to say, there should be a separate law on changes to the existing law, as prescribed in the formulation of when this law takes effect after the election. Amendments to the law are the way into Ukrainian legislation. It will be discussed in the Supreme Council and will be adopted by the Supreme Council. The MCS, for its part, will simply be involved in processing the technical part of the implementation of this arrangement into the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u8	Thank you. Please give the floor to National Deputy Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u9	I wanted to ask you a question, Mr. Minister. I understand it's not your jurisdiction, but I will. We know that there are negotiations on gas transit and gas supply from the Russian Federation to Ukraine. And for us, as Ukrainians, it's real for the people. And it's important for the people of Ukraine to know. If you actually have that kind of competence to tell us about these negotiations, would it affect the price of gas for Ukrainians? Will Ukrainians get gas cheaper? Because everyone knows that if the negotiations are to end positively and we really will select the 17 mediators that were provided in previous governments, the Ukrainians will see, let's say, a construct on gas issues. They want to see the same design in their bills. They want to see the price drop on gas and the lower utility. Because they spend quite a lot of money on it. Would you please say that's possible? I'm saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u10	Ten seconds, but please bet. I won't give any more.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u11	Your guess or your Ukrainian guess. Will the Ukrainian payments reduce the price of gas and will they pay less for gas?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u12	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u13	Thank you so much for asking. We are also very concerned about this. But unfortunately, it's not in the purview of the M.E.S. to comment on this issue. And we're not involved in the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u14	Thank you. Please, Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u15	Thank you. I give the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u16	Please, Irina Heratschenko, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u17	Thank you. Mr. Deputy Minister, yesterday the president of the aggressor country, Vladimir Putin, made statements of the nature of interference with the sovereignty of Ukraine and our territorial integrity and sovereignty when he declared some "really Russian lands". As European Solidarity, we are very surprised that there is still no official response to this by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What will be the reaction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? That's the first question. Second question. We welcome the fact that Ukraine has once again addressed the Russian Federation, the OSCE and Russia-controlled representatives of the so-called ODR and the ORLO on Monday's Skype conference for the release of hostages. We hope that all of ours will be home by the new year. Is there a chance? And the third question. We do think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u18	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u19	Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u20	I said I wouldn't give anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u21	Can I have your answer, please? Thank you for asking. We clearly condemn any attempt by the Russian Federation to intervene on Ukraine's territorial integrity. This statement will be made today. We clearly condemn it, and no word of Putin will work for us. What's more, let's look at the story that belonged to who. Back in the day, Moscow was subordinated to Kiev. So let's talk about roots, not consequences. The second question. I also hope that the results of the Skype conference will lead to the release of our hostages on December 31st and that the boys and girls will be home. This is what the negotiating group is working on. There's no betrayal. Work is done. I think we're gonna finish this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u22	Thank you. The word is given to Shah's Sergey Volodymyrovich, National MP, MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u23	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Your Honor, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when you spoke in your final position, you said "the status of Donbass." There's no Donbas status, there's no order. Do not mislead the Ukrainians. This is very important for journalists and the world at large. Secondly, please tell me in four months you'll have a meeting in Normandy. There's a huge environmental disaster in Donbas at all. Do you have a question about how to solve the environmental problem, is there a question of monitoring the disaster that is on Donbassa, or is there a question today of auditing those enterprises that are in decline practically in the Luhansk and Donetsk areas? Is there a question of exchanging these areas, because it is also an ecological threat, a re-occupation of these territories? And the main thing today is to connect the railway crossing to that frontal area. It's the boundary of the intersection of people who live there because it's huge.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u24	I understood the questions. Thank you. The environmental dimension was generally discussed during the "Normanda Summit" in Paris. In detail, we are preparing this issue for the next meeting. Of course, this is an extremely topical question. It's worked in detail as part of the Tripartite Contact Group. So no one takes it out of the agenda, it's going to be in the discussion and in the leaders, and we're also going to add our added value to solve it. For my part, thank you for your comments on status. Of course, we're talking only about the process of decentralization and the characteristics of local self-government, there will be no special status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u25	Thank you. National Deputy Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u27	Please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u28	Good afternoon! First of all, I'd like to sound indignant at the fact that the government and plus the President's Office are ignoring us as national MPs this time. The other one. They're ignoring our invitation to the Foreign Affairs Committee. I think such things are unacceptable, especially when such negotiations are taking place, and it stands, so important it stands in the order of the day. I have a few questions for you. First. Who in the government is responsible for the consolidation of losses, the entire list of losses that are in the East and Crimea in six years? The second question. The role of Minister Habakkuk on his trip to Paris, what he did there in the delegation and so on. Third. The plan is now, when are the virtually broken negotiations on prisoner exchange and the regime of silence?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u29	With the question of consolidated appeals to the Russian Federation. That's right. Consolidated lawsuits based on damage are formed on the appropriate interdisciplinary working group. Now this group is forming after the formation of a new government. The second question. I don't understand the wording for what the negotiations have broken down. The negotiations aren't broken. The fact that Minsk failed to agree will continue as part of a Skype conference on the release of hostages. And the third question? Excuse me? The regime of silence was maintained, there, at the place of divorce, this is confirmed by the conclusions of the OSCE text, daily. General. General, of course. I agree with you that the Russian Federation does not observe the regime of silence for this time. There are, of course, fatalities, continuing firefights. And today, the minister of foreign affairs in Berlin will inform the German side that the Russian Federation is not in compliance with its obligations and is violating the regime of silence, as agreed, of the ceasefire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u30	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Saucuk Oksani Vasilovni, a nonfractional one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u31	Good afternoon! Oxana Savchuk The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. Dear colleague, I want to inspire you somewhere or express the position of some of the MPs who think that we need to strengthen the role of the ministry more in negotiating with the allies, and involve not only the existing party, like France and Germany, but also expand our powers and encourage other partners. Because as of today, we understand that Ukraine can be pushed into a deadlock and will not be heard. So what steps does the ministry take to find other partners and involve them in making sure that the issue of Donbas is in favour of Ukraine and not in favour of Russia?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. It's extremely relevant. And the Ministry is working on it. Of course, negotiations, or, more faithfully, discussions on the issue of peace in Donbassa are not solely addressed by the topic of negotiations in the framework of the "normal format". We are negotiating, from the United States and Canada to our other allies in the European Union, first and foremost, about political and sanctions pressure. And including neighbouring countries that understand the same threat that the Russian Federation poses to neighbouring countries. It's about Baltia, it's about the South Caucasus, it's about our neighbors in the West. And now we're shaping the agenda to convey our concerns and involve other partners, but not in the "normal format", but in other parallel tracks that will allow Russia to carry out its obligations, which are signed under the "normal format". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u33	Thank you. National MP Kutcher Mikola Ivanovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u34	I give the word to Bilozer Larissa.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u35	Please, Mrs. Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u36	Good afternoon, Mr. Vice Minister. This is the question of the decision to declare a new truce at Donbasa. By December 18, the Tripartite Contact Group was scheduled to meet to provide a technical decision by the leaders of the Normandy format on a permanent ceasefire. Please tell me, are there any results yet, or are there any chances by the end of the year that there will be a ceasefire, a ceasefire? And the second question is that it is still the decision to release all those who agree on it. We've got a show in the Supreme Council right now, and there's the mothers of the guys who went missing on Donbassa, and they're still talking about the fact that these guys aren't on those lists. And when it does.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u37	Please respond. Guys, guys, let's do this: one minute we're going to be asking questions, no puffos, no intros, and so on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u38	Okay. Thank you for asking. First, I understand, the cease-fire. Of course, on December 18, Minsk met, and it confirmed the commitment of the parties to the truce on July 18th. So the formal decision is continued, but the de facto Russian side of this decision does not follow and the shooting, unfortunately, continues. The second question is that of detained persons or hostages who are in Russian captivity. Of course, the Tripartite Contact Group should be approached here with lists of those who have not entered because the lists themselves are being formed before the meeting. Please, you can give them to us, we'll try to get them to the representatives who work there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u39	Thank you. National Deputy Bakunec Pavel Andriyovich, MP's "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u40	Good afternoon, Minister of State, Paul Bakunec, Zovkovščina, Jaborovščina, "Trust" group. Given that the parties that took the guarantees failed to fulfil their obligations when we were stripped of nuclear weapons, that is, deprived of the status of a nuclear country, perhaps today they should be engaged and enlisted in their support while influencing our aggressor neighbor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. Of course, the Budapest Memorandum remains valid, and all the participants who signed this memorandum, we're participating in one way or another. And for example, the United States or the United Kingdom, which are signatories to this document, they get involved and help Ukraine in another way. These are the methods of political pressure, these are the sanctions that you know are being implemented, as well as Ukraine's assistance, specifically, from financial aid to defence aid, military supply, military training and so on. That is to say, there is actually participation, and within the framework of the Budapest Memorandum itself and the fulfilment of its obligations there is part of it. The question of the possibility of expanding formats is always discussed, and of course the added value could be seen as the involvement of the United States, for example, in the negotiations themselves. Although the United States is a participant in these negotiations, it leads directly to the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u42	Thank you. People's MP, Sergey Anatoliyovich, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u43	Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group. I have a few questions. I was asked a question by Sergey Shahov of Luhansk, but I did not hear a clear answer about the opening and restoration of the rail passenger line. That's the first question. The second question that concerns all the inhabitants of Luhansk, and which gives me as the Mayor of Luhansk, when the points of the city pass will be opened: Gold, Happiness, Dimino-Alexandrovka? And the third question, please answer. How and when information policy is being pursued in occupied areas, so that Ukrainians know what is going on, and how are all issues resolved? Thank you. Sergey the Great, Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u44	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Of course, the railway connection, the railway connection, is still not working. We're only talking about opening additional points for humanitarian needs. And this assignment was given to the TCG, the Tripartite Contact Group, and it's working on it, and it's working on the possibility of further discovery. The same is true of the points of the pass that you referred to: in Golden and elsewhere. This needs to be reconciled so that there is no breakdown on that side, for on our part there is readiness. And the third question is about information policy. We're working closely with the Ministry of Culture in the modern form to form a messaging package for occupied areas, primarily through the creation of a special channel in Russian, which could be signalled to a year of occupied territory. Of course, we are willing to listen to your suggestions, consider them, and work further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Ruššin Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the Political Party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u46	Please give the floor to Lesi Vasilko. Lescia Vasilko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u47	Please pass "voice, pass it, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u48	Thank you. I'm going back to the Steinmeier formula question, and I really want to hear the answer: what was the exact formulation of this Steinmeier formula that was approved in Paris in Normandy format? Because it's very clear on the President's website that the formula should be incorporated into legislation according to a version agreed by H4 and TCG. So I really want you to read this same formula. And my second question is, does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have a strategy in case the Minsk Accords don't work? And they, we see that they don't work. And in general, I would like to hear a strategy from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding resistance to Russian armed aggression, because in the Action Plan of the Government, which was presented at those three points concerning the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is little about the MFN strategy for countering the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. First question. I don't see the point of reading this formula because it was published. If you need me, I'm ready to send it. This formulation, which was not agreed in the framework of the "normal format", was agreed before, was agreed on October 1, 2019 by the representative of Ukraine, Mr. Leonid Kuchma. The second question. Of course, there is an alternative to the Minsk format. And we've already talked about the possibility of using the formula for the deployment of peacekeeping forces on Donbas. But first, let us speak honestly: Peacekeepers enter when there is peace. Who Will Bring Peace? Or we're talking about another formulation -- what we're going to do, not a peacemaking operation, but a peace operation -- a peace enforcement operation. This means that in the mandate of this mission there would have to be an end to the fire, and in our sense, control over the situation over the whole territory, not the divorce line, because that's the way to nowhere. Of course, we're working on alternatives. Moreover, you know that the Council of National Security and Defence has worked on five options for possible developments, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs has been involved as experts. Therefore, we should not talk about the fact that there is no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u50	Thank you. National MP Sukhov Alexander Sergiyyovich, Deputy Group "Trust". And that's the last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u51	Thank you. Alexander Sukhov, Luganshina, Trust Group. Please give it to Sergei Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u52	Please, Sergey Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u53	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Questions about the transitions of happiness, Djomino-Alexandrovka, have already been said, Czartkova, Milovo, Blagovishchenka, we spoke to the Prime Minister on this issue yesterday. I wish they would still bring these questions up in four months. They're considered petty, but they're very important to those people who are suffering today. A Russian wife in Ukraine lives in one family, and believe me, they communicate with virtually nothing but Ukrainian. So the question is that you open up these intersections today, and also the transition to Starikovka, from Milov to Dibrov, to open up these blocks and allow people to move normally. Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. An extremely topical question. In order to facilitate the lives of local residents on the collision line, you agree that we should deal with this, and these issues are already included in the work of our tripartite contact group. We have to reconcile them in Minsk and then move to work in places. But it really has to be agreed, because we can't do it unilaterally, because there are always armed people on that side, and there's not always security that allows for the very open regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u55	Thank you. I thank you for your answers. I invite you to the floor of Minister of Finance, Mr. Marcarov Oksana Sergiyevna. I'd like to invite Markar Oksana Sergiyevna again. Thank you, Oksana Sergiyevno. Ten minutes, yes, 10 minutes, and then the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u56	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! I want to brief you very briefly on where we are from the point of view of the end of the 2019 budget year, to assure you that everything is under control. And we're going to end the year 2019 peacefully, and we're going to enter the year 20, which hopefully will be a year of accelerated growth and will bring much more prosperity to our citizens. About the 11 months of the 19th. Obviously there are factors, and we all see it, and we report it all the time at the end of each month, which has affected some income mismatch. But this is a misunderstanding, and I want to say right now, this is one that is completely controlled. It does not require any sequesters or other complex words that we have spent the last few days trying to add a little panic. This failure is understandable where it came from. And we're taking measures that will allow us to fund all of our expenses. There are two types of expenditure in the state budget: protected expenditure and unprotected expenditure. What Are Protected Costs? It's pay, it's medicine, it's pensions, it's social expenditure, it's all about security and defence and wages in this sector. All of these expenditures have been financed rhythmically since the beginning of the year, and they continue to be financed in the same way, there are no problems with them, and there will be absolutely no problems with them. There are unprotected expenses – some purchases of goods, services and so on, which are financed for 11 months, have been completely open to them. For 11 months, it was enough for virtually all responsible administrators to make payments to the full. Within 11 months, tender procedures were possible and all documents could be submitted to the treasury. Sadly, though, once again, as every year, some miss that time. What do we see today on direct income? There's a number of incomes that we're dealing with. What are the incomes for today? First of all, these are VAT from imported goods in Ukraine. So what we're talking about is customs revenue. What is the reason for the surprise? And this is quite significant in this year. First of all, this is a series of decisions that were made after the 19th year budget was approved. In December of 18th, an amendment was introduced to import alternative energy equipment, which was not included in the budget. We see now, this premium cost us 9 billion of the money we didn't get. The second reason is stronger than the macro-prognosis on which the budget is built, the currency exchange rate. In fact, the goods that come in as imported goods were paid much less for. The third question is the price of hydrocarbons, the gas. What's essentially a positive trend is that the price of gas is going down, it's going to allow tariffs to be lowered, but it also means that we get much less payments from clearing this gas. All these factors have had an impact on the fact that there has been a misunderstanding on customs payments. There's another set of taxes where there's been a misunderstanding -- the rent, the cost of carbohydrate mining, which this year's result is about 11 billion unreceivable. And it's excise from manufactured goods. We all know what a big problem we have with excise goods -- cigarettes, tobacco and alcohol. So these are the taxes that were not received. That's why we have a remake. We have a tax rejuvenation on the income of individuals. So the wages go up, the jobs go up, we get more this year, we get the income tax of the natural person. We got more corporate income tax. And I want to say much more. So the profits of enterprises are increasing, including due to the macroeconomic situation. And we also got more on some other tax returns. Another reason is not related to the course. Our state-owned companies, which, unfortunately, did not pay in the form of dividends and portions of a net profit of about 10 billion dollars to the State Budget, were with you. We have seven days left. We very much hope that managers and supervisors, where these companies are, understand that paying taxes should be the same rule, and paying dividends and part of the net profit, and these are the costs that then go into the needs of taxpayers. It's not a choice, it's not something you can do optionally. This is something that needs to be done by the end of the year so that we do not have any budget problems. Where are we today? And I want to say that right now. Once again, there has been absolutely no change at the cost of protection. They will both be funded and funded by the end of the year. These are the main costs that affect our citizens. Citizens can be absolutely at peace. For a number of protected expenses. As always, in December we have such an interesting game: to give quickly all the documents you can, a bunch of redistributions, to pay the advances so that, don't give, God, don't burn the money. And unfortunately, some executives on some programs are just trying to do what's called a cash register. That's why the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, has taken steps to quickly review the priority of the directional data so that we can, in fact, take all the priority costs, including decisions adopted by the Supreme Council, and to finance OHMATDIT, and pay the miners, the ones that have recently been adopted, so that we can get all these documents signed and fully carry out these expenses. I want to assure everyone that the State Regional Development Fund and all priority costs for miners will be spent. Why were we forced to make such a priority stop? Because we have a number of indicators that are very important to whether we are pursuing a very well-balanced fiscal responsible policy. And that's our budget deficit. What Is Deficit? Deficit is when we spend more than we make. And so we have a deficit budget and this year we have a budget permit to spend 91 billion more than we make. But it's a ceiling. Over 91 billion we can't spend for one simple reason. This irresponsible policy in the past has led us to spend much more than this deficit, to borrow much more than we had to in order to stay in these deficits, not to reduce them, and this has led to crises that we have been struggling with for more than four years now. So once again, I want to assure you that all the important expenses will be spent. There will be costs that will not be incurred. Last year, for example, 22 billion a year have not been spent. And that's not because someone didn't want to do it. This is because there were no tendering procedures, because some materials were not executed and some materials were put in place, because over the course of the year they found that they didn't have to do what they were investing in. So it's very important, and we're already working with all the principals, for the following year, which will be the full budget year of this new political cycle. This is the budget year of this Supreme Council, this is the budget year, which from the beginning, January 1, will be under the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers in this warehouse. Our top priority will be proper planning. By February 15th, all the passports of the budget programs in order to use the funds, by February 15, everyone has to look very carefully at what they're planning to spend the costs they're setting up, because, once again, the story of what we're in five, seven, ten days before the end of the year suddenly starts to change what we want to spend on is the wrong story, the budget should be done exactly as it is set up. If there's an economy under any article, that doesn't mean you have to take it and use it for anything, including buying office supplies a year ahead. So once again, yes, we're going to have a little failure this year, it's important to us, and that's why we have to take measures to make sure that all the expenditures are fully confirmed and that they match those priorities that are set in both the budget and the government's agenda. However, I want to assure you that all the important expenses, including those from the unprotected, will be spent by the end of the year and we will enter peacefully in 2020. Thank you very much. I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u58	Please register with the Minister of Finance. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u59	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Oksana Sergiyevna, please tell me. On miners, the question is: Will all miners’ wages be resolved by the end of the year: both in Lviv and Luhansk and in Donetsk? And secondly, yesterday, we learned that two weeks before New Year's, that all of the payments were actually blocked in 95 billion dollars. It's a huge hole in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u60	In the treasury.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u61	In the treasury. It's a huge problem in the future for our state, people can't get their wages, neither teachers nor doctors or miners. I don't want to scare anyone, but I want to hear your answer. And finally, for example, the city of Lysichan. The half - town shafts are occupied, and no wages are paid. What will they pay further for the utility fees? What will they pay for the heat? What will they pay for the bills they have today for gas, water, and so on? Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u62	Thank you so much for asking. First, short answer, at extra cost to miners. The Cabinet of Ministers has made a decision. Today, all the Ministry of Finance’s manuals are signed, they go to Treasury and will be fully funded. As far as stopping payments is concerned. There was no stop, no stop, and no stop. All wages, all social expenses, pensions, medicines, both paid on time and paid on a daily basis. If there are any facts, please let me know, we'll be showing right away. But such facts, I'm sure they don't. There has been a temporary suspension of unprotected expenditure over the last literally two days, which will also be fully financed after prioritisation, by those who will be reviewed by the Chief Officials along with the Ministry of Finance. That's why there won't be any problems. But once again, this does not apply to salaries, pensions, medicines, or social programs. They are funded, and they will be fully funded by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u63	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u64	Good afternoon! Oleg Kulinich, trust MP. Mrs. Oksano, please tell me why it happened, that there was such a huge hole in the lack of access to the government budget. What are the consequences? And how much will the Ministry of Finance accept? And you're saying that all the things that were done, done jobs, will be funded by the end of the year. I have a question specific to Decree 1194 of December 4. It's about the work that's already been done, where there's even such a road as Mariupol Zaporozhye, which our President promised it would be done and funded, and other roads. What's going to happen to these things? Will these jobs be funded and will we calm people down because we are constantly being contacted by representatives of local governments and our electorates and are worried about this huge problem? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u65	Thank you very much. Once again, for reasons of non-recovery, I will briefly repeat myself. It's, on the one hand, 9 billion benefits from equipment, transportation of equipment, it's a lower price for gas, it's still a non-payment, but hopefully they'll be rectified, part of the net profit and dividend by state companies, and it's stronger than the government budget, the rate of the bracelet. But once again, just like the price of gas: it's good for consumers, it has a negative effect on the budget. At the same time, the same factors on some issues in the budget were positive. I wouldn't call that a big hole, because we don't really have a problem of over 15 percent, and from the point of view of budget legislation, as you know, 54 is very clear on the basis of what's called a shortcut quaestor, that's more than 15 percent. We're not close to that figure, so there's some kind of a misunderstanding, we've got seven days left, we'll see the results after seven days. But we know and understand how to deal with it. And I want to assure once again that all expenses will be protected, paid exactly, no problem, all that is needed, and even unprotected, all the priority costs will also be paid. As far as the roads are concerned, it's much easier. This is a special fund, so by the end of the year it won't climb up and burn, so we have to prepare the paperwork in time. Everything that Autodor is cooking, it says, we're doing very productively and constructively right now, so all the work done here will be funded. Moreover, the Supreme Council has approved a bill that allows for the implementation of the medium-term budget for the Road Fund as a special fund, even before we have submitted a three-year declaration. So these costs will not be burned, we can not worry, the financing of roads is our government's priority, Parliament's priority, will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u66	Goose Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u67	My ass. Good afternoon! Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Alexia, you are being approached, please! Thank you. I want to pay attention to all the majors in this room, we're 199. We need the Prime Minister to tell all of us whether, on Wednesday, a closed government meeting decided to redistribute 1 billion 800 million dollars of funds into socio-economic development, where thousands of objects have been disbursed and redistributed. For example, 371 million per city of Pochrovsk, 260 million per Kamyansk. What kind of stories is that? We have this arrangement, where it's all written down to a penny. We have asked you, Mr. Prime Minister, to meet again and again, not to share money with the socionoble when the mayors in this room do not know. So I want to ask you, was that the case or not? Are you a comforter to divide 1 billion 800 when you say so?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u68	Thank you for asking. Let me answer that. The mechanism. First. I didn't sign any social security orders today. Right after that. And the procedure looks like this. You have a committee of national deputies in your Parliament that defines the list of these objects. They came to us in government, it's true, it's true, they came to us in government. We looked at it in government, but we don't let it go. As soon as we considered him, I contacted Mr. Arahamaiah David, who was responsible for properly organizing the process in Parliament. As far as I know, he had to modernize the issue in order to consult whether everything was properly done at Parliament's level, at the level of procedure. Similarly, we consulted the Committee on Budgets to make sure that all procedures were followed. If we can confirm that all procedures at Parliament level have been followed up, we will certainly send this order to Parliament for implementation because the final decision is taken by the Parliament's budget committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! Volinec Mikhailo Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u70	Mr. Prime Minister, we have a feeling in the hall right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I apologize. Dear colleagues, please be quiet in the hall! First of all, now is the time for questions to the Minister of Finance, followed by a speech by the Prime Minister and a question to the Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, we have arranged this, now a question to the minister of finance, followed by the Prime Minister and a question to the Prime Minister. If there are no more questions for the minister of finance, we can finish. Volinec Mikhailo Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u72	I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine and Mrs. Markarov's Minister of Finance. Mr. Prime Minister, we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u73	Michael Yakovich, I'm sorry, I just pointed out that questions to the Prime Minister will be after the Minister of Finance. You may now or ask the minister. Let's do what we agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u74	Questions to the Minister of Finance. I also want to respond to the Prime Minister's response. It seems to us, Mr. Prime Minister, that you have just made a statement at the NABU regarding Arahamaia regarding the budget distribution. Now here's the thing: relative to the coal sector. So far, government miners have a debt of $1 billion, 72 million. If these 32 million do not yield by the end of the year — that is only a fourth of the existing debt — the debt to miners by the end of the year will be 1 billion 600 million dollars, on February 1st it will be 2 billion dollars. Lvivščina, Volini, Luhanščina, and Doniečina will not receive a salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u75	Oksana Sergiyovna Markarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u76	Dear Lord People's Deputy! First. I want to assure you that these more than 300 million coins that have been adopted by Kabmin will reach the miners by the end of the year, I know that. Today the help will be signed and everything will be in the Treasury. As far as the miners' salary is concerned, I want to go back. You remember when we talked about the budget, in the budget process in September of the 20th year, we said that we have a systemic problem in this sector, that we have a very small number of mines that actually either balance at the point of zeroity, or they can come out if there's an investment program. There are mines where the value of mining is such that we really have to sit together with the parliament with the Ministry of Profiles, along with the miners, together with the unions, to tell what decisions we need to make in order for it to be in the first place for the benefit of the people themselves. The people who work in such difficult conditions, especially in those mines where, no matter how much money we don't put in there, and we have the state budget, you know, there are all the needs that some mines might need, that might not solve the situation. So these, which 300 million now, 300 with tail, are going to be funded this year, you can speak boldly to miners. But this is a much broader and more systematic discussion that needs to be conducted with the Ministry of Profiles. The Ministry of Finance, within its competence, is ready to join.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u77	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. Dear colleagues! Sergey Volodymyrovich, please step aside because you don't see your colleagues very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u78	Sobolje, Fatherland. I have a very specific question. You've been very professional in determining the reasons for the budget cuts. But we do well to understand that without changes in laws that have provided fairly often unfounded benefits, including in the case of objects, for the productions that are in Ukraine, you should make these changes. Question two. How can all the articles be stopped, while at the same time the socioconomy develops? And the question is, what about the narrow bridges? How long will this monument of corruption continue to stand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u79	Thank you very much. What I'm saying is that really, the reasons that lead to underfunding are regularly discussed, not just by the Cabinet of Ministers, but by a professional committee. With the head of the committee, Daniel Gettmance, and many members of the committee who are here, starting on September 6, we are discussing a number of bills, including those that should cancel this and other benefits. Unfortunately, as you know, some of these bills, including 1209 and 1210, are very difficult and long to discuss, and have never been approved. So, of course, you're absolutely right: we have to initiate this, and we're initiating it. The committee actively supports these positions, but so far they haven't found their support in the hall, so we're talking about it. Plus the moment this Supreme Council started working, for example, after the same equipment benefits, more than half of it was implemented by September of the month, already the losses that were, the budget got them. The same is true of state enterprises. In fact, from July 1st you can pick up a stack of letters that are constantly written by the Ministry of Finance, then by assigning the Cabinet of Ministers and so forth to carry out the question. Once again, there is no discretion. So what you're saying, we didn't stop any expenses, we didn't stop others. Once again, there was no stopping any protected expenses and there would be no stopping them. And as for this temporary pause to get the supervisors to look at where they have the economy, and make some sort of prioritization, it's a temporary move that will lead to what we're going to finish. I think it's a matter for a profile minister. As far as the budget is concerned, these issues are financed. During the 20th year, as you know, the budget also has a pretty big investment program in infrastructure, including public. For my part, I also want to say that the Ministry of Finance is active.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u80	Thank you. Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u81	Please give Inna Sussoon the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u82	Another Romanovna Sosun.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u83	Mrs. Oksano, according to some information, the Ministry of Finance is now in the process of receiving a proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers to change the funding mechanism of universities. I would like to learn more about the proposed formula, since by the beginning of the new fiscal year, days remain to be numbered and it remains unclear how universities will be financed in 2020. The second question concerns a letter from the Ministry of Finance to the committee on the preparation of the draft Law on Secondary Education. The Ministry of Finance made many comments on the draft law. I would like to know what further steps will be taken to finalize the draft Secondary Education Act, including whether you will insist on taking into account the position of the Ministry of Finance when preparing this draft law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u84	I'll start with legislation. The Ministry of Finance gives every bill a first-hand opinion on budgetary legislation and budgetary impact, considering that we also have a budget for the 20th year and we will start working on January 1st to prepare a budget declaration. That's why our experts, I, a professional deputy, are willing to work with the committee on the bill to discuss all of our observations. We're going to insist on something, and hopefully we'll find some formulations that, on the one hand, will set up a committee, because the main thing in this bill is not about funding or budget, but it's about education, but let's do it in a fiscally responsible way. As for all the proposals made by the Ministry of Education, I'm going to leave the Minister of Education here to comment essentially, because in this case we're working very productively again and constructively with the Minister of Education, she's very professionally always and very thoroughly preparing all the documents, so if, well, I'm not ready to tell you now when you come in or not, but I'll be able to give you after "hour of questions to the government," looking at the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u85	Belkova Olga Valentinovna. That's the last, I understand, question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u86	Thank you. Madam Minister, I think I will address you not only on behalf of the faction but also on behalf of the members of the profile committee you work with. Well, first of all, we missed you so much. Why? Because the Ministry of Finance has been a bit of a surprise to us lately, to those who come for your assignment. Especially for those of us who worked in the previous calling. We're seeing some kind of sharp shift in the position of the Ministry. And it can't be justified when we ask specific questions about what income the Ministry of Finance is calculating by one norm of law, for example, by actionism, for example, by another norm, we're surprised by the answer, "We're not ready to give that answer for today." We as professionals in this committee should have a clear, clear, constructive position from Minfin. So I invite you personally to come to our committee at least a few times. And you've also pointed out that 1210 is going to be very principled. We want your personal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u87	Dear Mrs. Olga, I'd be happy to come to the committee at 1210 and 1209 and other bills, including. As you know, well, there's a minister in the Ministry of Finance and a couple of deputies. Committees are very often held at the same time and still sometimes coincide with the Cabinet of Ministers. But I'm going to make my schedule a priority for the committee in order to come to the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u88	Thank you, Oksana Sergiyevna. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexei Valeriyovich Honcharuk, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u89	Congratulations, fellows! I won't be talking long to give you a chance to work. The Minister of Finance gave a detailed account of the figures. I want to address, first of all, the "Serve of the People" faction. Guys, don't act like you're being provoked. We had a very difficult budget. It's kind of hard to close a year with someone else's budget. We need to be aware of that. Let me just give you one clear example. Last year, people adopted the budget, fixed the amount of income, and then adopted the lobbyist standard for tax exemption, for clearing the component for green energy. Well, obviously, that's how we lost nine billion. So it's in the budget, and there's really no money. And in such positions, we can walk for quite some time. The second component that's affected here is definitely the course of the bracelets. The bracelet course is an indicator for which the National Bank of Ukraine is responsible. I can tell you for a long time why this is happening and what the prerequisites are. Let me just say that this has a negative impact on the state budget and, of course, we don't have the money. The third is the evolution of energy prices. The budget provided tax money, including gas. Look at how much it cost at the moment the budget was planned, and look at how much it's worth now. And so on and so forth. We actually have two new organs that are now being relaunched -- tax and customs. Rumors that they don't work there, they don't do the plan, and everything else, it's not true, it's a fairy tale. We can do a separate presentation for everyone who's interested, separately, in each department. In the last two months of remodeling, well, customs, for example, in dollars, even remakes the plan. And it will do better and better with each month because there are new people there. What I want to tell you. Right now, we're being tried as hard as we can to get into a fight with you, to find a misunderstanding, to trust each other. I urge you to remain calm. Actually, it's pretty good. We have a difficult time. It's always hard to close a year. We have seven financial days left by the end of the year. I want to assure you that pensions are already funded, salaries will be funded, social benefits will be funded, subsidies will be no problem. At the expense of the individual, we take priority every day, because for everything, really, there is not enough money. But most importantly, we're going to shut down what's critical. Well, there's no disaster. So we're working on negotiations with the Russian Gas Federation right now. For the past two weeks, there has been no such thing as betrayal, no one betrays the interests of the state. Our colleagues are in the negotiations right now, and we're from right now, from the government meeting room, before we get here, we've opened government meetings, we've now taken a break, we've come to talk to you, and now we're going to continue the government's sessions on gas with Russia. Everything's gonna be just as good there. So I'm willing to answer any of your questions. Stay calm, everything will be fine. If there are any specific questions by number, on individual projects, please contact us, we will work on all issues. There are only two complex positions that I want you to know about that don't apply directly to the budget, but which are now, well, so sensitive. The first is wages, debts on wages in front of miners. Everyone understands that this is our traditional problem, that it's not budgeted, usually. We are now looking for the maximum funds to be spent on coal miners before the New Year. Now we've foreseen 322 million dollars, if I'm right, in order to cover part of the debt and we're going to try to look for more by the end of the year, but these costs will definitely be paid, we'll literally do it in days. The second problem that I really want you to know about is that it's part of the debt owed to -- in certain areas, not all of them -- in front of the education staff and doctors. This is also a problem that exists. Earlier, in November months, we redistributed enough funds, there are more than 500 million, between the areas in a way that covers about 80 percent of the problem, and there are now 20 more. These are the cases where the state counted the funds there and something happened to them down there. Cases are different. In some areas, at the level of individual institutions, the budget was not planned for the entire year, for example, for 10 months. So they came out of the fact that the pressure on the local authorities somehow cost them extra money. The second is when the money that was going to pay really wasn't going to pay, so they switched to capital costs and so on and so on and so forth. And now they're gone. Now, even then, in November of the month, we got information from the areas about the amount of debt that exists, and then we closed it. Now we see that there's still a small part, not all of them, but there's this debt. And we're working on putting it out next week, too. That's two separate questions for us, this isn't about the budget. Because here, in these parts, the budget is executed. The State has done everything it should have done. But we can see that if the budget is done, and it's not easier for people, because they still want to get paid. So we're going to be dealing with, well, thanks for tipping off, with budgetary discipline. We're going to find out who's to blame for the money being made, but they didn't actually reach people. But this does not mean that people for the New Year are to lose their wages. So for us, it's an absolute priority. We want the maximum number of Ukrainians, all dependent on the state, to receive funds before the New Year. That's what we're getting out of. Thank you very much. Ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u90	Please sign up for a question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Kuznitsov Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u91	Give the word to Bujansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u92	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u93	Bujanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u94	Buzansky Maksim Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u95	Dear Mr. Goncharuk, as I learned today, Kabmin canceled yesterday's decision to allow the playrooms to work, that's how it is. I have a question for you. We appointed you Prime Minister on August 29, this year, were you aware that illegal gaming halls are operating throughout the country? Why was this decision of the government, which allowed them to work as lotteries, not overturned on August 30, 2019? Why only yesterday when the Act on Legalization of the Game Business did not pass? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u96	Thank you for asking. Look, in fact, there's no regulation that allows you to do the gaming business, which is to put machines in place of lottery tickets. Are there any MPs in the room who think a slot machine is a lottery? I see. So we have a banned gambling business, but, at the same time, there's the State Lottery Act, and that's the State Lottery Act they're hiding there. We were counting on Parliament to consider fairly quickly a law that would create a normal gaming business ecosystem and civilize this business, which is once again covered by court decisions. Well, it's not yesterday's story, there's a bunch of paperwork, clarifications, court decisions that these friends who pretend to be lottery players are hiding. So we were counting on new, civilized rules to be adopted. When we realize that this story is prolonged, we have taken a closer look at the legal position that is there, and we have decided to break their legal structure, we will say. So we looked at how they're saying they're a lotteries, and they broke it. They used to pretend to be lotters. Formally, it was written in 2002 that lottery distributors had the right to work. Today, the government has actually stopped distributing these old license terms to lottery distributors. So even if they pretend to be lottery distributors, they won't be able to use license terms. We will do so until the slots disappear from the Ukrainian cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u97	Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u98	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u99	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u100	The Prime Minister, a respected minister of finance, you have humiliated yourself several times in your speeches, demeaning yourself with ignorance of tax legislation. You called the loss of 9 billion dollars in aid for the import of alternative energy equipment. So it's a purely import VAT that you should have returned to these payers within 30 days of this operation, so it's not a loss. Excuse me, have any understanding. Secondly, why don't you please tell me why the cost has been stopped, the payment of the funds that have been damaged since July? What's the amount of VAT that's now blocked on the tax return? That's over one and a half billion that are now under state control. What amount of unreparable VAT has been declared and unreparable for today? What else are the provisions at the expense of tax payers you will now keep in your budget? And I'm stressing again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u101	First. In order to clarify all these figures, of course, I do not remember them, and I will now ask the Minister of Finance to comment. But what I want to say to you, Your Honor, is that you, as no one else, as a person who was certainly involved in the formation of tax policy in the past Parliament, have to know the nature of the problems with the income part of that budget that you have adopted. You realize very well that, not from these new people sitting here today, the income portion depends on how this budget was projected. You understand very well that the revenue side right now is in no way dependent on the people who are now in power. So I ask you to stop manipulating and looking for a dark cat in a dark room, especially if it's not there. With respect to VAT. Once again, it's still the revenue of the state budget, even if it's being compensated. Madam Minister of Finance, may I have your numbers? I don't remember all the numbers by heart. But we're willing to give you any help, any explanation, any figures, any details. If you were to ask that question in advance, we would even give you a schedule of numbers, we have nothing to hide, all the figures of the State Budget in public access. Thank you for your attention. Oksana Sergiyevna!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u102	Turn on the minister's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u103	Can I have a word with the head of the State Tax Service and the State Customs? They're here, they can comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u104	The head of the Tax Service?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u105	Yes, Verlanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u106	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u107	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! As of today, the tax balance for the added value is normal, the compensation goes according to the applications. The State Tax Service is doing a background check, and this month, about 10 to 11 billion taxes will be reimbursed for the added value, and in the next month, it will also be compensated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u108	Thank you. Volinec Mikhailo Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u109	Dear Prime Minister, we have discussed with you earlier today that, as a result of the inactivity of the Ministry of Energy, there has been an extremely critical situation in the fuel-energy complex of Ukraine. In particular, coal mines have stopped, virtually everyone has stopped, and coal remains in storage. Since the beginning of November, coal has been shipped to Centrenerego's warehouses, a state-owned company that is not accounted for, at the same time, to low-cost power companies in Cologne. Now here's the next one. There's a "H" coal that we have in our surplus, in Russia. Why are they bringing him here? And this is the work of Mr. Herus and many others from the Energy Committee, and along with the inaction of the Department of Energy employees. Now we're giving in to electricity from Russia. As a result, government mines have also stopped and miners strike, and there is a debt on wages. In the coming year, no money was paid to miners.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u110	You know, I can't get used to it. That's when a person comes up to speak privately, well, rhetoric is one, and once a public talk is done, it basically changes. Here we go. You don't have to scream. We never told you that what's happening with the coal industry is the consequence of the unemployment of the Ministry employees, that's a lie, that's not true. What's happening today in coal-based activities is the result of a lack of ownership over the last 30 years, respected, and you know that very well. And I have every reason to believe that you know very well those colleagues who led the government mines to this state. And now to talk about that over the past three months, the inaction of some people in the Ministry of Energy has led the coal sector there to the pen that it's now there, that's a lie. That's why I have a very simple furniture for you. First. Now, in the summer, the electricity market was running, you know very well. The market over the years is a market that's shaped by the principle of consumption demand. There are complex rules in this market that we are now specifically introducing in order to support the heat generation. That's the first one. The other one. We have quite a warm winter, fortunately, but it's not good for the coal generation. Why? Because coal needs to be burned much less, which means that coal in the quantities it has is unnecessary. Third. Unfortunately, unfortunately, the mines that you're talking about, many of them are deeply damaged, and long ago, and this debt has been formed for a very, very long time. So we're in the government for the support of the people's deputies, most of us in this Parliament are doing everything we can to ensure that miners get the wages they can and deserve, we're working on making this problem go back forever next year. That's what 30 years is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u111	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to address you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u113	Wait, dear fellows. Coltunovich came up, said that instead of Scorch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u114	Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you about the domestic government loan bonds. As you know, for today's day, there's a surplus rate on domestic government bonds, and against the backdrop of such low inflation, which is today, we can say that there's actually a financial pyramid built in the country from the UDP.S.A. We are interested in the main point: who specifically earns money on the economy and citizens of Ukraine? If possible, please inform and inform Parliament who is buying in the bonds of an internal government loan. And the second part of the question is that we are interested in reviving the national monetary unit. What economic preconditions do you have to underestimate? I understand what Nazbank is doing here, but what are the economic preconditions? Because we see the consequences of re-evaluation of the national monetary unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u115	The first is from the CDD and the pyramid. I don't think I should be there in two minutes trying to read a lecture on this. But if you look at two figures -- the cost that the state borrowed, it took money, it took money in the spring money, and we're doing it now -- you'll see that progress is fantastic. If in spring, if I'm not mistaken, it cost us 18 percent, now it's 10.8. For the record, it's easy to understand: if we entered as a state under 18, now it's under 10.8. And in the following year, it will be even smaller if not, more precisely, when these provocations and the desire to stir up the situation in the country fail. So you don't stand a chance, Your Honor. We have a stable situation in the economy right now. We're running low on resources, we're running low on Nazbank's refinancing rate. In the following year, we expect cheap resources to be available in the economy for entrepreneurs outside, and the state has to invest, borrow, much less, much cheaper than it is. Ukraine has a debt strategy. It's a separate big document that says what to do with those huge debts that were owned in previous years. And they're huge, I want to assure you. Yeah, well, that's the question. That's what's progressive. The country’s strategy is to engage a longer and cheaper resource to replace expensive and short money. This lowers the pressure on our budget. That's what we need to understand. We will.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u116	Next question. Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u117	Mr. Prime Minister of Ukraine, I have three very simple questions for you. Do you think the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine should be followed? What must be done and who should be punished, and what punishment should be imposed if the Constitutional Court of Ukraine does not arbitrarily decide? Mr. Prime Minister, are you prepared to write your own statement for the fact that, as Prime Minister and as Head of Government, you have been failing to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine? Tell me why, if the Prime Minister may not do what other citizens in our country who are deprived of subsidies, do not index pensions, write crazy payments now, should do all of this: pay, wait, pay taxes when you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u118	The answer to your question. The Ukrainian government is operating within the framework of Ukrainian legislation. Answer the previous question. I'll finish with your permission. So, all the information about the DDP, so that you don't get misled, is public, and you can get to know it on the Ministry of Finance's website, who needs more information. Dear people's deputies, it's very important for us to have you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u119	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, I have answered your question. The Ukrainian government does not violate the laws of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u121	Why do you not comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine? Why do you not comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine? Explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u122	The Ukrainian government is operating within the framework of Ukrainian legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u123	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u124	Give it to me, please. Let's do this so we don't turn it into a farce.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u125	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u126	I have an offer. Come on, please, give me your position, why do you think.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u127	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u128	Next question. I answered everything. Once again, if you think that we do not comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u129	I don't think so, and you don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u130	If that's what you think, please give us the information, we'll sit down and we'll answer you at every point.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u131	Of course, we'll give it to you. But you will take the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u132	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u133	Okay? So you guarantee to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u134	Again. We believe that the government of Ukraine comes from the fact that we are doing all the laws that are in Ukraine. We're a law-abiding government.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u135	If you don't, will you write a statement?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u136	Once again, please, if you think.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u137	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u138	Please give me the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u139	You say, "I'll write a statement if I don't comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u140	Mrs. Queen, I know you're a very experienced national MP. Please give me a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u141	Dear National Deputies! Let's not speak from one rostrum, please! Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u142	Mr. Prime Minister, the budget for 2020 has 4 billion to spend on farmers' loans for the acquisition of Ukrainian land. Tell me, please, what do you think this standard is to attach to GDP and establish it at the legislative level of years 5-7, for example, to calm farmers, especially small farmers and agrarians? And the second question. This year, all the programs declared by the government were cut down and supported by small farming, livestock, gardening, and gardening -- all of which are linked to the development of rural areas. So what will be the trust in people, in agrarians and governments for the next year, when such strange things are happening this year? Will these programs be funded, and how will this be resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u143	Thank you for asking, distinguished national MP. It's a very good thing. You are right that Ukraine needs tools that the state could guarantee some business conditions for a certain period of time. That's true. That's a very good idea. We are now thinking about how to implement it properly. We have similar mechanisms in the Ukraine, for example, in the mining sector, there are tools called product distribution agreements that allow individuals to contract for a certain period and guarantee them, including the preservation of the tax regime. We're thinking about similar tools that are specific to agriculture. That's why it's the right thing to do. Thank you for your support. About existing programs. Honestly, honestly, I'm not going to give you any exact information right now about the state of each of these programs, but I assure you that, as far as I know, there's no such thing as cutting it. It's just that, in fact, we've been there to some extent selectively since September of the month to continue funding. And by individual programs, this funding was provided, by individual, we really don't plan to do that. We are prepared to explain our logic in each case. Let's sit separately and talk about it, we're ready, it's a very important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u144	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u146	Two factions, the MPs and the faction, were turned in to replace the break for the performance. Keith Andrey Bogdanovich. However, they asked that the government not break up so that they would listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, Andrew Keith, Strysk constituency, Trust Group. You know, I went out to the rostrum today to apologize to my constituents, to apologize for voting for the appointment of Mr. Goncharuk's Prime Minister. I am ashamed that Ukraine is represented by such a prime minister. I want to ask the Prime Minister from our trust group, does he know what a revaluation is, does he know which countries have ever allowed themselves a historical review, except for Switzerland? I want to ask him what Prime Minister's policies cost us 93 billion dollars, which is the gap in the budget of the state of Ukraine, and why is this happening? For the first time, I repeat, since 2014, after the Dignity Revolution, we have entered manual budget management. People are good, in manual budget management! It's been six years since our revolution so that we can continue to be the same as we were after Victor Fedorovich. Next. Your science, Mr. Prime Minister, costs us more than 10 percent of the decline in industrial production and unemployment, unemployment, I repeat, people continue abroad. I have a question: is that how you're following our President's instructions on creating a million jobs in Ukraine, a million jobs, thanks to the revaluation of the bracelet? You've just been created in Ukraine for Poland, there's a million Ukrainians working in Poland, not in Ukraine, and Polish industrial goods are flooding our stores. Maybe you don't know what the main thing about the Naftogazu NAC system, the Crushing System, is that I have a jar that works in the Construction Administration. Because for his 5,000 dollars, his alcohol problem, no one can quit his job. And over him is his manager, and he's holding him so that he doesn't fall on the machine. Because the mucks that we've had now pay for work between ordinary workers and millionaires in Naku come to mind. Don't you know that ministries are supposed to be involved in sector policy instead of being a holding fund for ProZorro? Trust Group doesn't trust Prime Minister Honcharuk. We believe and demand a fundamental change in our country's approach to economic policy-making. And we believe that it will be what the Ukrainians deserve. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u148	Heroim Slava! Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you to the government. Dear colleagues, the girls of the faction, Fatherland and European Solidarity, were asked to replace the three-minute break. Here comes Herasimov. Arjev Volodymyr Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u149	Comrade Lenin of his day wrote that the state is essentially a force of violence. But European practice proves that the state is a justice apparatus. And we're on a crossroads today to take the Lenin route. The European Solidarity Party considers the search on Dumska TV's television channel, the Odessa TV channel that is going through right now, to be a direct political pressure on an independent television channel. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau, which is called to fight corruption in the authorities, is currently pressuring the media, preventing journalists from working, hindering their journalistic activities, removing servers and private television technology. This happened after "Dumen TV" actively highlighted the subject of the recognition of the director of NAB by Artem Sitnik, who was guilty of corruption. We see this as a direct revenge for independent editorial policies and critical material from journalists and authors of House TV. We believe that this is an obstacle to journalistic activity and political pressure to rid ourselves of independent or critical media structures in Ukraine. We require the State Bureau of Investigation, if it is still in place, and other law enforcement agencies to break the case of the illegal actions of NABU and to stop immediately the practice of destroying freedom of speech in Ukraine. The government must respect the democratic values of Ukrainian journalists, whatever they write or speak, within the security and laws of Ukraine and learn to adequately accept criticism. We and Ukrainian society will not allow the introduction of repressive Russian tools against independent media in Ukraine. And once again, I would like to turn from this rostrum to the OSCE representative for the protection of freedom of speech by Arlem Dezor, to the relevant structures of the Council of Europe, who are monitoring freedom of speech in the countries that have signed the relevant convention, to pay immediate attention and to respond. And for us, dear colleagues, we need to identify ourselves: we are going in the Lenin way, in the repressive way, or in the path of European justice -- and in this is the key point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u150	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. I have one announcement, taking into account the number of proposals that were made to the first reading of draft law registration number 2178-10. In accordance with article 43 of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I hereby order the Committee on Agriculture and Land Policy to hold meetings of the Committee on 26, 27, 28 December 2019 and 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 10 January 2020 to consider proposals that came to the second reading of Bill 2178-10. This position was discussed with representatives of all political factions and groups. Thank you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 on the Enterprise Development Fund. Please prepare for the vote, take your seats. We're going to have to make a decision about the inclusion of 226 votes in the agenda of the plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, get ready for work. Dear colleagues, ready to work? I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily plenary session of the bill of registration number 2589. Please be prepared. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:54:49]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that the bill be defined as urgent and that it be shortened by half the time of the introduction of alternative bills and the Committee's conclusions on it. It is also necessary to obtain 226 votes in favour of the people’s deputies. Please support and vote. [[11:55:21]] For 224 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, I'll ask everyone, take your seats, all other questions we'll settle later, let's welcome the children. Come on, let's say hello. Hello! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to define the bill as urgent, to cut the deadlines for introducing alternative bills and to draw the Committee's conclusions on it. This is a procedural decision, so please support and vote. [[11:56:32]] For 222 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u152	Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. [[Noise Nodes]] Show by factions. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine to regulate the transplantation of anatomical materials for human beings (registration number 2458). Reported the deputy head of the National Health, Medical, and Medical Services Committee, Dmitriev Oksana Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u153	57 of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u154	2457, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u155	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed for a second reading of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts that regulate the transplantation of anatomical materials to humans (registration number 2457). The main objective of the bill is to launch a modern and effective transplant system in Ukraine. In particular, the first changes have been made to allow for the initiation of bone marrow transplantation in Ukraine. Second, the project clearly defines the proper functioning of state information systems for transplantation. And thirdly, the project is proposed to postpone the final date of formation and launch of the state information systems of transplantation by January 1st, 21st. These information systems are still in the process of creating, opening, filling and defining criteria. Technically, according to the MOH, they're going to start working not before April in test mode. It still takes time for these systems to be tested according to the requirements of the KSI. And if we don't adopt this law today, January 1st will stop the entire transplant in Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that in preparing the draft draft for the second reading, the amendments of the Ukrainian people's deputies, the comments of the GNEU and the opinions of experts and the expert environment have been taken into account as much as possible. Also taking into account the comments made by the Committee on Integration with the European Union, the bill added rules on the establishment of quality and safety requirements for anatomical materials. A total of 76 amendments were added to the second reading by national MPs, including 39, partially 6, edited 10, rejected 21st. Having considered the bill at its meeting on 16 December 19th, the National Health Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the final amendment proposed by the Committee of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine governing the transplantation of anatomical materials to the human being (registration number 2457) on second reading and, in general, as a law, and to entrust the committee in preparing the text of the law to the Head of the Supreme Council to carry out, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its technical and legal work. Colleagues, today is the last sessional day of this year, ahead of the New Year, when everyone believes in a little miracle and wants his dream to come true. Today, we can do a pre - New Year’s miracle for hardworking Ukrainians who have lost hope. Please support the committee's decision and allow for the development of a transplant in Ukraine, because we have a unique chance to start building a real transplant system in our country and give lives to thousands of Ukrainians waiting for organ transplants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u156	Let's go to the table, dear colleagues. Is the heroine insisting on the papers? No, it's not. Are you insisting? One minute, please turn on Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, I will not insist on our amendments. I want to say that the committee has taken some of our amendments into account, some have not counted, but our political power in general will support this bill. We'll vote yes. I want to remind you that the parliament of the previous convocation has adopted the appropriate Transplant Act, and we are proud of it, because in fact a very delicate decision, which has not been reached in years, there have been many speculations here. We are happy that this decision has been made, but today we really have to take the next step with you and implement the possibility of implementing this law into another legislation. That's why we're going to vote in favour, and we don't insist on all my other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u158	Thank you. Stefanisine, number three. Are you going to insist on all the paperwork?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u159	I'm not going to insist on all the revisions, I want to get three minutes to tell you about the one issue that I'm going to insist on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u160	How many minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u161	Well, in three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u162	Give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, we will certainly support this important draft of the law, but I want to tell you all that this bill delays the whole year of the new transplant system, namely the electronic system. So all the transplant registers will be kept in paper mode for a year. This causes corruption and does not allow us to fully realize our right to be donors and patients to receive services. That's why I'm going to ask you to put to the vote number 62, which says that the new transplant system needs to be launched, not on January 1, 2021, as the authors plan, but on April 1, 20. In this way we will allow our citizens to receive quality services from transplants already this year. Dear colleagues, if you do not support this amendment, do not lie to your constituents or tell them that you are launching a transplant system this year. If you put it off for a year, say: "We are unable, the Ministry of Health cannot run this system."and then you're putting it off honestly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u164	Thank you. Then we go without it. We don't put your papers on confirmation, do we? Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand that the papers were only. We agreed, three minutes, that's it. 62nd for confirmation? Please turn on the microphone to the committee representative. After that, I'm betting on the approval of the 62.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u165	I haven't been Deputy Minister of Health for three years. And that's not why I didn't create this Edist in a year and a half. That's why it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, we're about to reach 62nd. 31st Amendment, Teeth. And no one's going to insist on any more than 62? I'm ready. They asked for more. Klimpush-Cincadze, 58 right. Klimpush-Cincadze, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u167	Thank you very much. First of all, I want to thank the committee for taking the most account of our changes and for being constructive. But I would also like to ask the hall to support number 58. Because I want to pay attention to the need to decriminalize actions that are formally subject to the definition of "a violation of the legal order of transplantation of human anatomical materials." Responsibility for this is provided for in article 143 of the Criminal Code. This responsibility is provided for in other articles of the Criminal Code: article 140 and parts of article 143 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. And as suggested today, this does not match European practice. And I'd like us to predict in this law the European practice of that kind of responsibility. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u168	58th doesn't count. Should we put it to a vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u169	This correction is rejected. The bill’s second reading standards suggest extending the circulation of persons who can carry out the transfer of anatomical materials. This makes clear the conditions and order of transport and storage. Expansion of subjects and modes of transport will have a positive impact on the transport of anatomical materials, match world experience, reduce organizational and technical stress on the health care facility and its employees. In addition, we have taken into account number 57, which suggests that the transport of anatomical materials can only be carried out under the conditions of ensuring that human anatomical materials are stored properly, in order and in compliance with the requirements and standards that are determined by the MoE of Ukraine. Edit rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, I'd like to vote number 58. She was not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:07:33]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Edit number 62 of Stefanish. She was not considered by the committee. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u171	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u172	That's what we agreed. I'll put her to the vote. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[12:08:04]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Have you gone through all the lines? Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Take your seats and keep your distance. Ready to vote? Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts governing the transplantation of anatomical materials to humans (registration No. 2457). Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:09:32]] For the 320. Decision taken. Hello. The law is passed in general. I'm out of procedure. Show the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" is 230, "The Opposition Platform for Life" is 2, "European Solidarity" is 20, "The Fatherland" is 17, "For the Future" is 10, "The Voice" is 16, "The Trust" is 15, "the Non-Factional" is 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u173	The word is given to David of Arahama.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u174	Fellows, I ask you, given the importance of this issue, to return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of 2589, because by the New Year, this is a very important initiative for the development of our economy. Thank you. And shorten the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, I would like to return to the matter. Offer. Dear colleagues, the offer to return to the consideration of this matter. Please support and vote. [[12:11:06]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! By factions, please show me. "Serve of the People" is 230, "For the Future" is 1, "The Voice" is 7, "The Non-Factional" is 3, "The Opposition Platform for Life" is 0, "European Solidarity" is 0, "The Fatherland" is 0, "The Trust" is 0. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to re-enter the agenda of the plenary. We need to get 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[12:11:52]] For 243 Decision taken. I ask the question of identifying a bill as urgent and shortening the deadlines for introducing alternative bills and providing conclusions to the committee on it. I need 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[12:12:23]] For 238. Decision taken. I am asking about the ad hoc vote on the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session. I need 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[12:12:50]] For 235 Decision taken. I'm asking questions about this issue under a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[12:13:12]] For 236
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u176	Decision taken. The word is given to the representative. No discussion? Is there no objection? The word is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuku, Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u177	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, you are invited to take note of the proposal made by the President of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and as an immediate draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 on the Fund for the Development of Entrepreneurship. The main objective of this project is to provide affordable credit for small businesses in Ukraine. The bill proposes to increase the availability of a special government budget fund at the expense of the timely repayment of the Bills of the Fund to guarantee the investments of natural persons in the amount of $2 billion. The other one. To provide for the Ministry of Finance with adequate funding for the new Enterprise Development Fund. The bill is balanced, the budget deficit is increased by a non-trading source of revenue, from the payment of bills by the Fund to guarantee the investments of natural persons. The funds in question are intended to channel loans to the final borrower by partially compensating the interest rate on loans of one and a half billion dollars, as well as by providing partial guarantees to the final lender of loans issued on a portfolio basis and by covering the portfolio-formed portfolio of end-borrowers — half a billion dollars. It is proposed that the law will take effect on January 1, 2020. The implementation of the law will contribute to the development of small businesses. In view of the above, please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and adopt Bill No. 2589 as a basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u178	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. For the co-report, the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Oblivious Lesia Valentinovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u179	Dear Dmitry Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies and invited, the Committee on Budgets of December 18th considered bill 2589 on amending the Law on the State Budget for 2020 on the Enterprise Development Fund submitted by the President of Ukraine and recognized as urgent for further consideration. The committee analyzes the position of the draft bill, which takes into account the conclusions of the GNEU and the Ministry of Finance and focuses on the main issues. In particular, no financial and economic accounts have been made available to the bill, so a request from the committee to assess the reality of the proposed revenues and to specify the direction of use of the funds under the new budget programme, Minfin, has been made to provide the indicated revenues in the appropriate ranges, as confirmed by the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Persons. The bill's increase in government budget deficits will not lead to an increase in government debt, since the long-term repayment of the Fund's bills is not a debt source of budget financing. Minfin also speaks of the balance of the proposed changes. At the same time, there is a need for technical legal and editorial clarifications in the bill to bring standard-design techniques into line with other provisions of the bill. Taking into account the need for the timely implementation of the President's initiative to develop and support small business by the government, the Committee on Budget Affairs recommends to the Supreme Council bill 2589 to adopt as a basis and as a whole a law that takes into account the proposals for technical and editorial clarifications set out in the Committee's letter. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the matter? Yes. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two in favour, two in favour. The word is given to Alexander Stanislavovich Pasicny, a faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u181	Please pass the word to Kirill Nesterenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u182	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u183	Kirill Nesterenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u184	Please, Kirill Nesterenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u185	Good afternoon! Kirill Nesterenko, Dnipro. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Before I received the mandate of a national deputy, like most of our team, I was a private entrepreneur. Remembering the start of my business, as an entrepreneur, I remember the difficulties that have been faced, the main of which are investments and guarantees of obtaining them. Because when there is an idea, the power to implement it, the belief in ourselves, sometimes our young Ukrainians lack it, and the investment itself, the lending of their projects, which is why many of our young people go abroad in search of a better destiny. In his pre-election program, President Vladimir Zelensky promised to support every entrepreneur, and he's doing it, and he's proposing to create an enterprise development fund and to provide for it for the 20th year with a total budget of 2 billion dollars. These funds will be used to support very small businesses, since they are the ones most vulnerable but motivated. The President, our team and every Ukrainian believe in our small entrepreneurs is the foundation of the middle class, where all these 28 years of independence were broken. Please personally support the President's initiative, which motivates people to stay in Ukraine, to develop themselves in Ukraine and to pay taxes for their own state. Our youth is our future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u186	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy Vasilko Lesi Volodymyrni, faction of the political party "The Voice"
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u187	Good afternoon, please pass the word to Volodymyr Cabal. Say the word to the devil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, in our neighbours, in all the European countries that we are looking at, the basis of GDP growth in the last decades -- it was small and medium-sized business, and it's the core that allows these countries to develop. In Ukraine, if we look at the last 20 years, we've got big holdings, we've got a class of oligarchs, all business, and business is good, but we have all the business in the hands of big entrepreneurs, the oligarchs with whom the state helps, it's adopting lobby laws for a year, and the small, medium-sized business is forgotten. Our faction in its program, our party and our faction have always written that we would do everything we could to help small, medium-sized entrepreneurs. We need to make sure that they have comprehensive government assistance, including access to a variety of investments, grants, and so on. Now if you go to any large bank, even state-owned, for example, Savings Bank, it's easier for them to lend loans to big businesses, because they're going to make more money for one loan than they're going to give 20 there or 30 small businesses. So our faction will vote in favour of this law, but I want to make two remarks. The first is funding from the early repayment of the Deposit Guarantee Fund bills. Here we really have to make sure that these bills are paid off so that the funding is in place. And secondly, I'd like to learn a little bit more about how the fund is going to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u189	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u190	I'm asking Pottery Alexia to pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u191	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u192	Dear friends! Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, north of Restoration. You know, our power is just unique, it's really unique, and there's nowhere else to be found, remember, in a song like, "I don't know another country like that," that's another country, and there's no other authority to find. In the budget of a hole like that, a hole like that, for 70 billion dollars, there's no paying people. The wounded have not received money since July, and there is nothing to buy paper in government offices and institutions. The Prime Minister has frozen all payments -- all payments except protected, frozen. Not to build roads, not to buy drugs, not to repair kindergartens, schools, hospitals, nothing. They've dealt with nothing to give away. And this government that you think, with a hole like this, freeze the payout, Greensky comes to us with the initiative, "Boys, let's add two billion more to the return-and-stay fund." He came with such a call, until we heard his call, we see who: Portov heard, other friends. They're probably going to go back for a loan of one and a half million dollars, five or seven dollars there, or what percent. This is at a time when the government is borrowing 11 percent of the bracelet. And we're going to be handing out -- that's great, friends, business -- take 5 into the state and give it to the state under 11. This 6 percent will live on both Zelensky and his team. Listen, guys, this is some kind of bullying! What is it? We're already with you, we're funny! I'm not suggesting that we vote in any way, but Zelenski will somehow come to his senses.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u193	Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u194	Please pass the word to John Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u195	Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u196	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, the Fatherland faction has always supported and supported small businesses, because it's the small and medium-sized business that holds the power of the state. But at the same time, in order for us not to have to make decisions like now that apply to a special fund from which some entrepreneurs will be loaned or paid off, it would be desirable for us not to make decisions in this room for starters that place small businesses on our knees. Because they put the FOPs on their knees, they made it their goal to destroy them, and then we set up foundations. We need to be consistent in these matters. At the same time, I would like to say that, of course, financial resources and cheap loans are needed for small businesses, but we have, as a faction, we have considered this bill, there are questions about what needs to be provided with expanded information on the ability of the Fund to guarantee the contributions of the Physosib to pay its contributions to the benefit of the State. The fund’s balance sheet, the financial results report, the financial plan for the repayment of debts with appropriate explanations from the fund, and not just a letter of 3 paragraphs where the fund does not object to such a law. At the same time, this requirement, including the fact that the current provisions of the Law on the State Budget for 2020, as well as those of previous years, have preserved the standard, article 17, on the additional issuance of domestic government bonds in exchange for the guarantee bill of the Guarantee Fund, which shows a lack of financial resources for the Deposit Guarantee Fund. That's why we demand that this bill be voted on in two readings, and we demand that the fund be given detailed explanations as to its ability to provide a bill of 2 billion dollars to finance the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u197	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich of "Trust." And "To the future" is after. And then we go to the vote. Please turn on Paul Andryovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u198	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, Jove, Jaborishte. The Trust MP Group, of course, supports all initiatives for enterprise development. But before this bill, we have a number of important observations. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is proposed to increase the deficit of the State Budget Special Fund by up to 2 billion to foresee a new budget programme for the Enterprise Development Fund. This is not justified either, nor is the fund manager - Minfin - justified. Therefore, we believe that the bill is raw in such a proposed way, and we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u199	Thank you. Bondar Victor Vasilovich. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u200	Dear friends, dear colleagues, especially members of the "Serve of the People"! I didn't know that in order for a country to get a loan, you had to leave the country first, live somewhere, work for someone and then come back for a loan. Two billion dollars The Deposit Guarantee Fund will pay off the bill and hand it over to Kabmin. Read the papers, what are you doing? Under what do we transfer 2 billion? Who prescribed the order in which to receive these funds, which entrepreneurs? In our country today, industry is dying. For 2 billion it was possible to make a repayment program just a percentage of credits to buy new equipment for the industry. You'd get 20 to 30 billion imports into Ukraine of new industrial equipment, under the medium-sized business, into new businesses, into new jobs. That would be a work program. And you're suggesting that you don't understand who the money is, or the government's decision. And no one even saw the order in which they were to be distributed. Schools aren't closed, hospitals aren't closed, the budget is a hole in. billions. Two billion, we're falling apart. Come on, guys, think about what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u201	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u202	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The opposition platform for life will support this bill in the first reading. And it's because the Enterprise Development Fund has very good intentions for stimulating and developing small and medium-sized enterprises. We are certainly interested in developing a real economic sector in the country. We know what the situation is today: the decline in industrial production and the decline in consumption in the internal consumer market. And we need new drivers to stimulate and activate entrepreneurial activity. However, there is one very important point. And we insist that we do. Of course, the second reading is still said to be adhering to it. But as far as control is concerned, the Court of Auditors is concerned about the direct allocation of funds. So that we can all see what a specific list of enterprises has been helped. So that we can see where this money is going to go. And in order for them not to be stolen, I suggest that the second reading put out appropriate fuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u203	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I'll bet you a vote. Look, we have a proposal for a committee to take as a whole. Can we vote in general? [[B in m in s a l in]] Three factions, no. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020 on the Enterprise Development Fund. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:31:47]] For 275 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that the preparation period for the second reading be reduced according to part two of article 116, to shorten the deadlines for the submission of rights and suggestions and preparation for the second reading. Please support and vote. We'll make it. [[12:32:20]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. A statement came from two factions to replace the break for the performance. "The Servant of the People" and "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u204	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, received information from a newsgroup of the Duma channel from Odessa, that, as a result of the follow-up actions carried out by the NAB, circumstances were found on the basis of the court's approval and circumstances that for the first time in history, at least I know, caused a TV stop. Home TV was forced to stop its broadcast. We've checked this information, unfortunately, it fits the reality. The decision was made immediately to convene a meeting. Why the Council? Because, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we have no right to assemble the committee day after day. At the meeting, all 100 percent of the members of the committee were present. A decision has been made not to evaluate the very circumstances that have led to the investigation of the Doomske TV channel in Odessa, to contact the State Bureau of Investigation to investigate and study the circumstances that have caused the TV channel to stop. We call on the State Bureau of Investigation to investigate whether or not there were signs of a crime envisaged by article 171 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code regarding interference with the journalistic activities of television broadcasters. You know, we can have different political views, we can treat each other differently, but when the issue becomes one of the main principles of democracy and the rights of our citizens: on the one hand, to get information, and on the other hand, the rights of our journalists to provide information, I am absolutely convinced that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is uniting around the issue of the protection of Ukrainian civil constitutional rights. And today's decision is a demonstration of this unity for the rights of our citizens. And for the next meeting of the committee appointed according to the calendar plan, we invite representatives of the Odessa Television Company "Dumska TI" and the NABA representatives to find out all the circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u205	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Amendment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Supreme Council Committees of Ukraine on the Ninth Call. This is about including Mandy Sergio Volodymyrovich as a member of the Committee on Questions. Yes, he recently acquired the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy. Member of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Inoccupied Areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk Region and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations. There is a proposal to vote it out without discussion. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Ninth Call (register No. 2627). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:37:07]] For 292 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislation on urgent measures in the field of health (register No. 2428). Reported to the Head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance, Raduccio Mikhailo Borisovich. You don't? Let's not keep the whole room waiting for the committee head. With all due respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u206	The Honourable Chairman, Your Honorary Fellows, is proposing a draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts on urgent measures in the field of health care (registration 2428), prepared by the Committee on National Health, Health Care and Health Insurance for second reading, in close cooperation with the Ministry of Health. The bill was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis for the first reading, with the commission of the committee to develop it into a second reading, with short deadlines for the submission of proposals by the people’s deputies. During this time 37 proposals and amendments from 14 national deputies were submitted before the bill. Based on the results of the review: consider 13 amendments, take into account 2 amendments in part, take into account 3 revisions in editorial terms, reject 19 and do not consider proposals that have been made in breach of the submission deadlines established by the Rules. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this bill is aimed at addressing the urgent problems that are now hampering the transformation of the health system and making it more difficult to implement new funding mechanisms. We have to adopt this bill this year, because without it since the 20th year, medical reform will slow down. Before the second reading, the bill had not been radically changed. Most of the rights taken into account are of a technical and legal nature, including those aimed at bringing health legislation into line with the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. Importantly, a number of rights have been added to the second reading, allowing the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine not to be limited to ensuring the development of only state health institutions; instead, the government will be able to develop and implement state-owned programs to support and develop municipal institutions to create all necessary legal and economic mechanisms. In addition, in order to stimulate the creation of a viable network of health facilities in the regions and to strengthen their material and technical base, it is proposed that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine be required to approve in each hospital district a list of health support institutions. This amendment is fully supported by the MOH of Ukraine and is in line with its strategic vision. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the final amendment proposed by the Committee of the draft Law registration number 2428 in the second reading and generally as a law and to entrust the committee in preparing the text of the law for signature to the Head of the Supreme Council to carry out, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, its technical and legal work. Please support this proposal by the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u207	Thank you. Amendment 13, Lukashev. Will someone insist on their work? They will be. Heroshenko, 14th edition. Aren't you going to insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u208	I won't insist on our amendments. I want to thank the committee, which has really been very constructive in considering the amendments, have been taken into account, certainly not, we do not agree with everything, but we respect the opinion of the committee and will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u209	Thank you. 21st Order, Stefanishina. Won't you insist? Thank you. Batenko, 22 sets. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u210	Dmitri Alexanderovich, we will support this bill. But there is one principle of correction, and I would like the hall to listen. As we know, the current level of paid medical services in public and municipal health institutions, which are providers of medical services, is not more than 20 percent of the amount of services provided. So this bill takes up this ceiling of 20 percent of the amount of paid services in general. Friends, we're a social state, what do we dictate to our citizens? I don't think that's acceptable. And I'd like to make an appropriate presentation, as we suggest, instead of doing total commercialization of hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u211	Are you insisting on your right? I'm betting on the vote number 22 of the Batenka People's Deputies. It's rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:23]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Amendment number 23, Royal. Don't insist. 24. Magera. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u212	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, right now you're not backing Batenka's amendment, because I understand that most of us in this room are in favour of commercializing our medical care. It's very sad. I ask you again, notice, our people need medical protection because not everyone has money. Please support this amendment. 20 percent limit is what our people need. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u213	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u214	Edit rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u215	Amendment number 24 was not counted by the committee. The author insists. I'm betting on the vote number 24 of the Magari People's Deputies. Please identify and vote. [[12:43:58]] For-73 The decision is not taken. 25th Amendment, Labazük. Don't insist. Kunaev, 26 revisions. I get it. We're on top of things. It's not your turn. No, I'm sorry, there's no motive for that. I bet. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on urgent measures in the field of health (registration No. 2428). Are you ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:45:11]] For 297 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending Chapter I of the Act "To make changes to certain laws of Ukraine concerning the reinstatement of power" (to determine the size of official salaries and other components of work, the financial security of law enforcement officials and other public authorities). We need the support of the people's deputies and to include this bill in the agenda of the plenary. It takes 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[12:46:16]] For 253 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that the bill be defined as urgent and that it be reduced by half the time of the introduction of alternative bills and the Committees' conclusions on it. Please support and vote. [[12:46:46]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is proposed to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[12:47:10]] For 255 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:47:31]] For 243 Decision taken. The word is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, again Friday, the last working day of the High Council plenary meeting, and again the matter of the State Bureau of Investigation. I want to remind you that last time we made a decision, there was both hunger and boycotting the Council's work, and we even called for an extraordinary meeting. Today, the subject of our bill – I say ours, because it is also supported by the entire law enforcement committee – is that we must leave, guarantee the independence of the State Bureau of Investigation, which is the size of the salary of the work set out in the Law on the State Bureau of Investigation. On December 6, we voted on Law 2260, which has not yet been signed by the President, and which leaves the guarantees established by law for a number of bodies that are also provided for by my law. The only difference in this law is that one single body is added to this list, the State Bureau of Investigation. Let me remind you that we recently voted with you to restart the D.B.I. We have recently identified the question that the Maydan investigators are moving from the Public Prosecutor's Office to the State Bureau of Investigation, and by this decision today I urge you to support and vote in the first reading, and in general to ensure that the Maydan investigators and the D.B.I. investigators who are investigating the most important cases receive the decent salary that Parliament has set. So I ask you to support, vote on both the basis and in general today. It is important that, as of January 1, this salary should remain in the prescribed legal order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u217	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this matter? Okay. The focal point is the head of the Committee's subcommittee on the organization of government, local self-government, regional development and the construction of Kornienko Alexandr Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u218	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The Committee on the Organization of Government, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council, on 17 December, considered at the meeting a bill submitted by the National Deputy of the Monastery, amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the reinstatement of power (to determine the size of official salaries and other components of work, the financial security of law enforcement officials and other public authorities) (registration No. 2572). As a result of the Committee’s consideration, it concluded that the proposed changes would contribute to creating the right conditions for effective work, paying the workers of the bodies concerned. According to part of the first article 23 of the Supreme Council Rules, the Committee recommended to the Supreme Council a draft law on the amendment of certain laws of Ukraine relating to the reinstatement of power (to determine the size of official salaries and other components of work, the financial security of law enforcement officials and other public authorities) (under registration number 2572) to be included in the agenda of the day-to-day second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. In accordance with part one of the first and part two of article 114 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure as a result of the first reading of the draft bill, as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u219	Thank you. Please register two in a row, two in a row against the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u220	Please, National Deputy Jean Belenjuk, People's Servant Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u221	Please pass the word to Irina Venedict.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u222	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u223	Irina Vendiktov, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear colleagues, the President has repeatedly stressed that we are now fighting two wars. And one of these wars is the war on corruption. In fact, it's worth our wages to our law enforcement agencies, and I'm reminding you that Parliament voted the DBR as a law enforcement agency, that's certainly the basis for our hope of winning the war on this front. So I urge you to support this bill, to vote it as a basis, and in general to make sure that DBR workers understand that they can make every effort to fight, and their families will be properly provided. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u224	The word is given to National Deputy Nemiri Grigori Mikhajlovich, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland". Please, National Deputy Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u225	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable, venerable Presidium, distinguished fellow members of the national MPs, respected guardians! Indeed, it takes political will to fight crime. Following these recent bills, which are being submitted by the President's initiative, is the political will to fight crime, and there is corruption in the state. Besides the will, there has to be power. For there to be power, we need professional law enforcement agencies and their material and technical security. The fact that we are voting on this bill today is the result of our turbulence. What we have recently adopted is the D.B.I. Act, and it is now necessary to clarify. But I thank the leadership of the Committee on Law Enforcement, thank you to the heads of other committees of legal activity for having been investigated in time. And today we are allowing all those who work at the D.B.I. from January 1st to have a saved salary, which is already set in the laws that have been passed, and for those prosecutors who move in with Midan's affairs to the D.B.I. to get a decent salary. And then we will have the moral right to demand the result. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u226	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine. You are now, aren't you? Prince Ruslan Petrovich, I'm sorry, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u227	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, I'll remind you of a story. At the time of the adoption of Law No. 2260 in this room, I applied for confirmation of an amendment that took into account the list of those organs that are derived from the operation of this law. And I asked: let's not confirm it because it doesn't have D.B.I., D.I.P., VCC, SAA, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the local courts, the appeals courts and the Ukrainian people's deputies. You can pick that up in a stenographer. I asked you not to do that! What was done? They accepted the amendment, confirmed it, and sent it to the President. Now we're still changing this norm, which is not even signed. And we also have two different laws that regulate and send them to the President. Now imagine, he'll sign it quickly, and then he'll sign it. And we're going to undo this and we're going to go straight back to the point of zero. Guys, I'm asking you not to accept it in general today. Let's go to the first reading and fundamentally then to the second reading, let's write out all the organs that are really legislative, and once and for all, we're going to put an end to this, because this is just a partial solution to this problem. That's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u228	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. The word is given to National Deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Oh, Mamka's People's Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u229	Dear national MPs, present, guests, media outlets, "The Opposition Platform for Life" will not support this bill, first of all, because any law enforcement authority, when the colleagues present say, that we will support and make the DBR more independent and that the normal workload on wages is not the truth. If everyone remembers, in this room we voted on the Law on Changes to the State Bureau of Investigation, changed the leadership, forgot to tell them about the wages, no change, but what made it important that this body directly subordinated to the President of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine, in addition to the appointment of a supervisor, was authorized by this law to approve the legal order of this law enforcement body. If the President approves the schedule, and this law proposes that the Cabinet of Ministers pay the costs, what did we do with the independence of the law enforcement authority? It's that the President of one institution will approve a state schedule that has not been approved and not yet made, and the law is not signed, and the Cabinet of Ministers will pay the costs. The payer is the one who orders music and, in fact, we can't speak to an independent law enforcement agency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u230	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. During the meetings of your colleagues, please tell the committee that it recommended that you accept as a whole. Ready. In general, no. Okay. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Final and Transitional Regulations of the Ukraine Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine concerning the Reloading of Power (Registration No. 2572). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:58:47]] For 299 Decision taken. In general, are we ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Please support and vote. [[12:59:29]] For 277 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on Improving the Electronic Form of the Legislative Process (Registration No. 2492). It is proposed to vote and include this issue in the agenda of the plenary. Please support and vote. [[13:00:08]] For 263 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed to deal with the issue and to make a decision at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[13:00:36]] For 256 It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. [[13:01:00]] For 258. Decision taken. The procedure is Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u232	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, you have repeatedly said that you would like to enter the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism as a speaker who does not violate the Rules. I want to remind you that we just voted 2572 in general, when two factions, including ours and another faction, demanded that we prepare amendments to this bill, it's about budget changes. And I'm actually informing you that we're preparing a ruling on the basis that you've violated the Rules of Procedure to simply reverse this decision. So you're actually just now continuing to consider the issue instead of going to the Rules. And we urge you to do so today, on the last day of this year’s session, not to violate the Rules, to move on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u233	I'm not breaking the rules. I heard there was support, and this support was then on the board. It is your right to write, address and propose a decision to cancel this decision. Under the current Rules, this may be your right. Thank you. The report is given by Florov Paul Valeriyovich, a national deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u234	Good day, Your Honor, colleagues! Your attention is on project 2492. In line with the changes to the Rules that have already been in force, but are already in force on February 4, next year, the Supreme Council and all of us need to move on to a fully electronic legislative process. In preparation for the full digitization of Parliament, there have been three months in the Supreme Council apparatus, and recently there has been an intensification of this work. The software and technology level of a single automated system is almost 90 percent. The task of creating the KSCI into this system was also agreed by the state of affairs. But unlike the technical aspect of the Supreme Council's readiness to become the third parliament of the world with 100 percent dijitalisation, after the parliaments of Denmark and the European Parliament, there are also questions of the moral and physical readiness of the legislators, the national deputies to register bills and amendments exclusively in digital form. I'm talking about the presence, above all, of a qualified digital signature, which unfortunately all national MPs don't have. And more importantly, experience and ability to work in the E-Legislative System. Only members of the Digital Transformation Committee have a more or less appreciable idea of this system. And the Supreme Council's apparatus has developed and can train deputies in this system. So a sharp transition to a fully electronic form of legislative activity can create some discomfort for many of our colleagues. In this context, it is proposed that from February 4th to September 1st 20th, we make a transitional period for both paper and electronic form of the legislative process. Bills and amendments can be made, as they are now, and through the imposition of the ECJ, they will have the same legal force. At that point, no stacks of paper that are being distributed and distributed today to MPs in the form of macululation will definitely be gone from February 4th. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u235	Thank you. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Calchenk, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u236	The Honourable Presidencies, honourable National Deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting reviewed the draft Law of 2492, which is designed to introduce an electronic document procedure in the legislative process by amending certain articles of the Rules. The committee noted, however, that a new regulation was being drafted, including provisions of the Rules, which had already been amended by law since October 18, 2019, which took effect on October 30, and was due to be put into effect on the first day of the third session of the Supreme Council of the Ninth Call, that is, February 4, the following year. This project proposes positions that will be applied from the first day of the fourth session in part, which provides for the creation of the selected documents exclusively in electronic form. So it's worth predicting that this law is going to fail because there might be a conflict when there are two different laws that regulate the same circle of issues and are mutually exclusive. There are also some novels in the bill, such as the reference electronic texts of the originals of the adopted acts. That is to say, formulations have been introduced that are not in the current Rules, and therefore these issues need to be addressed in the same way. Next. Some new functions of the regulatory committee are proposed to establish the inability to function as an electronic system, and the regulatory committee has neither technical tools nor will actually refer to the subject matter. So that's because it's a new edition. The proposed edition does not have a systematic link with certain provisions of the Rules, there is a need to apply the mechanisms of Article 116 of the Rules and perhaps to make some suggestions and amendments to those parts that are not the subject of the first reading. The committee proposes to support this bill in its first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u237	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you need to discuss this? Please register: two in, two in, and two in factions. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u238	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The "Trust" MPs will support all open-minded drafts on transparency in the work of the Supreme Council, especially in the public eye, in front of our activists, and of course in modernizing the 9th call of the Supreme Council. This bill proposes the introduction of an electronic database of normative documents and other acts adopted by the Supreme Council and the establishment of guarantees of free and free, which is very important, for citizens to access this base. This will, in fact, ensure the transparency and openness of our work with you in front of our electorates, in front of all the inhabitants of our country. It should also be recalled that in connection with the adoption of the Law on Electronic Documentation, a complete transition to electronic documentation should take place on February 4, the following year. So the bill that we are considering today is another step towards implementing this strategy for the introduction of electronic documentation. That's why the Trust MPs support the openness and transparency of the Supreme Council's work, and we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u239	Perkins Maxim Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u240	Please pass the word to Paul Frow.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u241	Frolov Paul Valerijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, today the Supreme Council is already operating an electronic documenting system using a qualified electronic signature. By the end of this year, over 1,000 67 colleagues of the Apparatus had been trained, 14 secretariats of the committees had been trained, and 7 would have been trained by the end of the year. So I want to address the heads of factions, all the national MPs. In view of the fact that the E-Project system has been in operation since February and everyone will be able to register bills and amendments electronically, I want to ask everyone to go through the training. It'll be very comfortable for hours to learn how it works. Some of our deputies themselves, without any training, have studied this system and are already working in this system, in which not only the Supreme Council works, but more than a thousand, 700 central executive authorities. And they already, MPs, have the ability to make electronic calls, send calls, and get answers. So I'm proposing this bill to support, and to stress that if we hadn't adopted in October a project on the fact that since February 4 we're moving to electronic paperwork and the legislative process, we wouldn't have done that by the Supreme Council's apparatus, which would have allowed us to go to electronic documents and electronic legislative process as of February. Please support this law in the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u243	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Mother Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u244	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the second such covert case. "The opposition platform is for life." We need to recall the criminal offenses that the law enforcement agencies were waiting for, the new knowledge institution. But we didn't do anything, and the law enforcement agencies didn't do anything about how to draft a bill and postpone the launch of this institution. For seven years, wait another eight months. This is a similar situation where here, in the hall, the initiators of the law that went into action, that we're ready to launch the electronic paperwork, we're using tons of paper, that it's such a great value. But the law has been passed, so far we are not ready to work on it. So why did we adopt the law if we had to calculate our learning opportunities, the introduction of standards, the testing, all the other things in order to get it to work? "The Opposition Platform for Life" is ready to be taught by the initiator of the bill for the time being, ready to launch it, but we are against the abolition of such an important bill. We will not support and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u245	Thank you. Ivanovich Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u246	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, listen carefully to what I have to say. We're looking at a bill called "to improve the electronic form of the legislative process." It was introduced two months ago by the dijitalization we had in this room and we made an electronic form of documentation in Parliament, and now we want to improve it. Do you know how to improve? By entering a written form of a document that will include both a written form and an electronic form. So improving the way we go back to the past is called "The State in the Smartphone," which we're hearing about? Is it something else? So I don't really know who needs to be taught any more, but I think that once Parliament has adopted the Electronic Documentary Process Act, this law should take effect, and it has entered into force, and we should act in accordance with the rules of the Supreme Council. Because let's get to the point where we're going to improve dijitalization so much, we're going to return the surrogacy stamps to verify the paperwork. That's why we're not going to support this bill as the "Fatherland" faction. We think that Parliament really has to work for modern technology. And if we've already announced that there's going to be a "state in the smartphone," let's start with ourselves: Parliament, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And then people will believe us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u247	Thank you. Heratchenko is motivated, and then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u248	You know, honourable colleagues, the teaching needs to be done, not by the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but by the author of this bill. Because all of the previous laws of this author, which the Supreme Council of Ukraine had adopted in the area of turbulence, you were also shy about voting in the district: both on assistants of the national deputies and on wages and on all these green buttons. And now we see another masterpiece of this author, which you will then vote on. You know, we think you should use these three weeks of vacations to learn how to write laws, and then offer them in the session room so that we don't waste our time on voting. And we're definitely against this law because the amendments to the Rules have already been adopted, and let's start working, not copying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u249	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the Committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Rules, the draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the improvement of the electronic form of the legislative process (registration No. 2492). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:16:11]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you. Let's go. Dear colleagues, announcing: "In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the withdrawal of the parliamentary group "For the Future" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Please announce my statement at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Polack." Polack. A Pole, a national MP. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Functioning of the Electronic Cabinet and the Simplification of the Work of Business Persons. We need to vote and include it in the agenda of the plenary. No, he is. We're changing the day, that's why we're including this plenary meeting. Please support and vote. [[13:17:34]] For 257 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that this bill be declared urgent and that it should be reduced by half by the time of the introduction of alternative bills and that it should be concluded by the committee in accordance with article 50 of Part Three. Please support and vote. [[13:18:06]] For 266 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is proposed to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[13:18:28]] For 266 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:18:49]] For 266 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the first deputy chairman of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Jaroslav Ivanovich, is given the floor for the report. He's both from the authors, and he's speaking from the committee. Please give me four minutes. But I'm going to ask you a little bit faster.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, I would like to introduce to you our joint bill, signed by 70 of our colleagues, representatives of all factions: the "Serve of the People" factions, the "European Solidarity" factions, the "Fatherland" factions, the "Optional Platform for Life", "For the Future", "Trust" and, of course, the "Golos" faction. What's this bill about? It simplifies life to small entrepreneurs. First. Finally, the Soviet book, which our small entrepreneurs are forced to keep, is being abolished. It doesn't perform its functions, and so we're going to change that, and we're going to implement electronic capabilities to track and make the lives of entrepreneurs easier. The other one. It greatly improves the work of the electronic office. I would like to say to the Council that the last summons has done much to enable our taxpayers to pay their taxes through the electronic office. But we're taking a step further. We make it possible to get messages, learn about ourselves, and even forget what tax looks like, except for the electronics. And the third. We are making and expanding opportunities for our entrepreneurs to submit their declarations earlier, to enter this office, to pay taxes quickly, and to think about how to make money, not how to administer their expenses and taxes. You know, in closing, I want to say one thing. We had a very bad tradition: Under the tree, we tend to make bad changes for our entrepreneurs. Today we're changing this tradition -- we're taking the first reading of changes that improve the lives of our entrepreneurs. These changes support the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Tax Office, the Ministry of Finance and, of course, these changes, I hope, will support our Parliament. We're going to be working on this bill on the committee for second reading, but this is the first step and the signal that we're all with you, without exception, taking care of small entrepreneurs. So please support the decision of our committee to vote on this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u251	Without discussion, can we? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Functioning of the Electronic Cabinet and the Simplification of the Work of Business Persons (Registration No. 2524). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please. Dear colleagues! Please support and vote. [[13:22:30.]] For 299 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. Yes, of course, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, once again, thank you for supporting this bill, we are working on it for the second reading. I have a request to you, Mr. Chairman, and to the hall. We adopted a bill on financial restructuring before the committee. Unfortunately, a year goes by, and we need a technical bill, it's very short, 2358. If there's no objection, can we put it in the agenda and accept it? If we don't accept it, we just have to stop this law that we've supported before in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, do you mind? Can we? It's a second reading. Reported to the head of the Gethmans Committee, Danilo Aleksandrovich. This is draft law, registration number 2358. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now. Wait. Now, let's turn it on. Yeah. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration number 2358. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:24:12]] For 262 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Danilo Aleksandrovitch, but don't take too long if you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u254	Dear colleagues, very brief. This is really a bill that corresponds to the implementation of the Financial Restructuring Act that we voted with you in October. It is a change to the Tax Code and accordingly establishes VAT benefits for the implementation of this financial restructuring. There were only five rights to this bill. All the changes are accounted for. Please support the green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u255	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's all taken into account if so. Now. Vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation in connection with the improvement of the financial restructuring process and the improvement of the taxation of financial lysis operations (Registration No. 2358). Ready? Please support and vote. [[13:25:49]] For 277 Decision taken. Thank you. The law is passed in general. 2557 Draft Decision on the approval of the Head and the composition of the National Commission on Radiation Protection of the People of Ukraine. Reported to the head of the Committee’s subcommittee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use of Igor Sergiyyovich. But very quickly. Why don't we talk about it? Dear colleagues! No discussion. Vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the entire draft Resolution on the Approval of the Head and the composition of the National Commission on Radiation Protection of the People of Ukraine (Registration No. 2557). Please support and vote. [[13:27:02]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the following question: the draft Decision on Changes in the Composition of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Fires (Explosions) at Ammunition Stocks in the City of Ichnya, Kalinivka, Balaklia, Svatov, Curve Rig from 2014 to 2018. Can we vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and, in general, taking into account the committee’s proposals, the draft Decree (registration number 2391). Please support and vote. [[13:27:53]] For 314 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have three minutes. There is another Order on the establishment of a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate information on the conclusion of the Agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Special Committee of creditors on the restructuring of external debt in 2015. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is that a question to be asked? Do you want to come out? Dear colleagues, the word is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich. It takes two minutes for him to read, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u256	Dear National Deputies! Very short. Since a letter was received from the deputy faction "Slut of the People" about the appeal, the formerly proposed representative, Thorochtius Bogdan Grigorovovich, in connection with his statement, after the regulatory committee had considered the matter. And so this commission now has nine national deputies: Bužanski, Hermann, Zadrožni, Kaptielov, Kopanczuk, Salamaha, Krasov – from the deputy faction "Slug of the People", Abramovic – from the deputy faction "The Opposition Platform for Life", Sobolev – from the faction "The Father of the Father". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u257	I bet the vote on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 2163). Please support and vote. [[13:29:44]] For 291 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, the draft Order to change the composition of the Temporary Investigation Commission. No, it was. A draft Water Transport Act, followed by two laws dealing with disability. Shall we? I mean, the Water Transport Act is there a motion for a committee to reject. Shall we vote? On the contrary, the committee's proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm drafting the Inland Water Transport Act (registration Nos. 1182, 1182-1, 1182-2), will the authors not insist? No, right? Whether it wakes up or not, the distinguished national MPs, if they do, will rise, the author will say that he will insist. None. Are you insisting on the discussion? I mean, we're not going to be able to vote on two laws related to changes in the lives of people with disabilities, are we? Okay. Look, there were suggestions, no, no. Then we go to the questions, we don't vote anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u258	Let's make some suggestions. May I make a suggestion, Dmitri Alexanderovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u259	Offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u260	Dear colleagues, why don't we take 15 more minutes to review the laws and 15 minutes to read the questions if there's no objection? [[Applause]] Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u261	I'm betting on the vote that Helen Constantine's Condratuk just made. In fact, we're going to pass Bill 1182, this is a draft. And two bills 1197, 1198, and then we'll finish and go to questions. Can we not vote? We can. Let's go then. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to refer the draft Law on Inland Water Transport to the Committee for Re-reading (Registration No. 1182-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:32:56]] For 316 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two bills. 1197: Draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection (to ensure the rights of military and naval personnel and the Ukrainian Armed Forces to become a participant in hostilities). Second reading. Reportedly, the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights (registration No. 1197). Do you want to talk about it? Can we vote? It's a second reading. So it's a second reading. Yeah. The right-wing authors won't insist? No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection (to ensure the rights of members of the Navy and the Air Force of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to obtain the status of a participant in hostilities) (registration No. 1197). Please support and vote. [[13:34:24]] For 317 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u262	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u263	And honourable colleagues, the last question that we will consider today is the draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, on strengthening the social protection of individual categories of persons with disabilities as a result of the war (registration No. 1198). Report one. Do we have to report it? No, it's not. And the right-wing authors will insist? No, it's not. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! 30 seconds to Cimbaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, thank you very much. But first of all, I want to thank the authors, Mrs. Ivan Klimpush-Cincadze and Mrs. Irina Frezz, because these are the authors, thanks to which these laws were passed. And thank you to the head of the Committee of Social Policy, the protection of veterans' rights for the consolidated work, ma'am, thank you very much, Mrs. Tretlyak's Galina. Thank you all for your time. For the New Year, we give to the disabled, to the warlords, two beautiful laws, that's what our people are waiting for. Mr. Head, thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u265	Dear colleagues, I am voting for the second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending article 13 of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, on strengthening the social protection of individual categories of persons with disabilities as a result of war (registration No. 1198). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:36:49]] For 323 Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u266	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we have only one Law 2429 left. Are we gonna leave the rest this year? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's get him. Why can't we go first and then work on it? Vote. Honorable colleagues, respected colleagues, are treated. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's on the vote, yes. Right away, no discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] It's 2429. No discussion about it? What if you just take the floor and we vote? Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll be through in 10 minutes, I think. The word is given, then. Head of the Committee on the Health of the Nation, Medical Care and Medical Insurance of Raducci Mikhail Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u267	Wait. Short-term procedure. Short-term procedure. 150 votes required. Please support and vote. [[13:38:40]] For 252 Decision taken. Mikhail Borisovich, but very, very quickly, because we have 12 minutes left.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u268	Dear colleagues, thank you so much for your support, because there is a very interesting thing going on here today. The support of a Ukrainian producer that affects the growth of our economy is very distasteful. But please, this law says about the introduction of BALAR into the legislation. This will give, allowing Ukrainian pharmacies to accelerate and expand the production of generics, resulting in not only quality but also much more affordable medicines cheaper than foreign ones. And this law, the bill provides for ours. Allows us to provide our peacekeeping contingent with the necessary simplified vaccines. The bill is supported in particular by the Association of Ukrainian Entrepreneurs, the Federation of Employers of Ukraine, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Union of Industrialists, the Association of Drug Manufacturers, the Association of Employers of the Medical and Microbiological Industry of Ukraine. Also, this law deregulations blood services in Ukraine and enables blood products from blood plasma products in Ukraine to be produced 2.5 times as much as we are currently buying them. This law has been supported by the Anticorruption Committee, the National Health Committee, and this law is not based today, but is followed by a reduced procedure for second reading, and colleagues from the anticorruption committee have promised to introduce the laws they are interested in in in this bill. Dear colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u269	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this law? Yes. There's only a Voice, so I suggest we give the Voice two minutes to discuss and move on to a decision. Please, which one of you? Record: two in, two in. Please: Two in favour, two in favour, but only those who want to speak are registered. Please. People's Deputies are on the road.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u270	Dear colleagues, please support this law. An important initiative for all of Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u271	Thank you. National MP Ion's Maria Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u272	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u273	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u274	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the creation of a system of national blood services is our obligation under the Association Agreement. Unfortunately, this bill has not yet been considered by our Committee from Ukraine’s integration into the European Union, but what we see here when we are offered plasma for fractionation to also give to subjects of entrepreneurial activity is totally contrary to Directive 2002/98 of the European Union, which obliges donors to base on the principles of charity, volunteerism and free of charge. Clearly, then, he needs substantial work to prevent such things from being assumed at all. Because otherwise you and I, as Ukrainian citizens, will be left without donors who will give free blood to our institutions either state or municipal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u275	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Vasilenko Lesia Volodymyrical, Political Party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u276	Please pass the word to Olga Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u277	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u278	Dear colleagues, I understand that everyone wants to go home very much today. But even in this room there are people who called me and asked me to help find blood for their relatives. You all know what the blood system is today in Ukraine. It's almost a broken, broken system. And this draft law will specifically reach it. First. What Mrs. Ivanna said. Voluntary donations in Ukraine are completely killed. The other one. This bill places the production of blood products on a private company in Ukraine. And the third. He allows her to deliver blood without control in Ukraine. Look at the compare plate, I'll quote you. The paragraph is deleted, which reads: “Components and donor blood products are allowed to be implemented outside Ukraine only if they fully provide for the health needs of the Ukrainian population.” This paragraph is contained in this bill. Please think about what you vote for. This bill kills the blood system in Ukraine. The Ministry of Health and the Committee are now overwhelmed by letters of blood centers from all over Ukraine that this bill does not suit our interests, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u279	Thank you. Papiev Mihailo Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u280	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National MP, Mikola Babenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u281	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, today 8 countries in the world, if I'm not mistaken, have technology to produce immunoglobulins from blood plasma. These are very important drugs for oncology, for people with reduced immunity. Also, hemophiliac preparations are made from blood plasma. And today, Ukraine has this technology. Unfortunately, importers, as well as people who represent foreign companies here, are offering our Ukrainian citizens a few times more expensive to buy. Why? Because American companies are monopolies in this market. And this year, first productions in the city of Bila Church are being built in Ukraine to produce these products. I urge everyone to support domestic production and not give our health, the health of our people abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u283	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the basis of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the elimination of artificial bureaucratic barriers and corruptive health factors (project 2429). Please support and vote. [[13:46:07]] For 259. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u284	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to questioning. Helen Constantine. Let's see the factions. Let's move on to the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u285	Dear colleagues, during the plenary week, 288 parliamentary inquiries were made. If you can, please be more tolerant and quieter if I want to read these. Mr. Dmitry Kostuk to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the Main Territorial Administration of Justice in Kiev, on the unfair work of employees of the Department of Public Registration of Printed Media and Public Forms of the Directorate of Public Registration of the General Territorial Administration of Justice in Kiev. Arsenija Pushkarenka to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on the criminal responsibility of officials of the Kyiv City Council and the Kyiv City Public Administration, guilty of failing to implement the decision of the Kiev City Council on the first-line steps to improve in principle the quality of services by maintaining houses and buildings, instigating territories and providing these services in a timely and comprehensive manner." Maxima Berezin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for an immediate analysis of the state of affairs of the Ukrainian State Fisheries Agency. Groups of National Deputies (Motovlovitsa, Podlasoj, Movcana) to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the need to verify the need for the misappropriation of budgetary resources by Valérie Prozapas. Valery Kolucha to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community of Bila Church of Kyiv district of the Central Children's and Youth Sports Base "Trage Reserves", which relates to the administration of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. Alexander Gerega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the Husatin-Grodok-Yarmolinki-Hmelnicki-Kyiv train. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation with the provision of gas to the people of the Hmelni district. Dmitry Lubintz to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations of Ukrainian legislation in the course of his duties as head and co-workers of the General Office of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the Donetsk region. Larissa Bilozer to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of officials of local self-government to social security and pension insurance. Larissa Bilozer to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Wynnicka District State Administration, for the granting of State subsidies for the implementation of construction and reconstruction projects in the city of Shargorod Vinicka. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of social protection workers in the Shepetov district government of the Hmeljna region. Marijana Bezugola to the city’s Kiev head for rebuilding the construction of the Great District Road in the Obolonian district of Kiev Marijana Bezugola to the city’s Kiev head on the reconstruction of the Kyiv city center of reproductive and perinatal medicine. Maxima Tkachenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the Cabinet of Ministers Order of Ukraine of 10 July 2019 No. 623 "To make changes to the Cabinet of Ministers decision of 18 December 2013 No. 947 "To approve the granting and fixing of the level of financial assistance to the victims of the extraordinary situations left in the previous residence". Sergey Ljovczyna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on increasing the social problems of citizens with disabilities. Sergia Koleboshina and Alexander Tkachenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need for an immediate rerouting of the operating clinic of the funds allocated to the MOH to transplant the bone marrow to a citizen of Ukraine who is suffering from chronic myelofibrosis (oncology). Igora Guza to the Minister of Community and Territory Development of Ukraine on the need for amendments to the Ministerial Order of 17 July 2019 No. 165, in order to allow the implementation of projects on prevention and diagnosis of oncosa diseases in rural areas, at the expense of the budget received from the European Union. Yuri Boyka and Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures to decentralize the authorities in part of the protection, observance and protection of the rights of the child by the local executive authorities of the united territorial communities. Anton Polakov to the Head of the Court of Auditors on the need to conduct an audit of the Political Party's "Serve of the People" faction. Anton Yatzenka to the Ummansk City Head for information on the sale of non-residential buildings and the construction of a former TB office in Uman. Mikoli Veličkovica to the Minister of Economy, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine on the readiness of the Ministry of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine to conduct a comprehensive examination of the work of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre and its territorial bodies. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the issue of the creation of a priority for adoption by foreigners of Ukrainian children. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the exclusion of discriminatory norms from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's decree of April 5, 1994 No.226 on improving the upbringing, education, social protection and material care of orphans and children deprived of parental care. Mikhail Zimbaluka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on the situation at the Lviv Bus Plant. Sergia Minka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on unfair consumption of natural gas by consumers in the absence of gas counters. Vladimir Aresonkov to the head of the Zitomir district government to solve the problem of repairing the road of local importance in the area of the Orutsky district of the Žitomir region. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer of objects to the municipal property of the city of Corstenia. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine concerning the granting of permission to develop a project with regard to the removal of land, which is used by the state-owned company "The City Forest Farm". Irina Konstankevitch to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Service of Ukraine on geodesy, cartography and cadastral issues concerning the misconduct of officials of the General Administration of the State Department of the State of Volinské Region. Vladislav Borodin to the head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Council for the prediction and allocation of additional funds for the capital repair of Building No. 2 and the reconstruction of the roof of Building No. 1 of the Red Calina Children's Institute in the village of the Cherkaske Novomoskov district of Dnipropetrov. Anastasia Lashenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of insulin to people with diabetes mellitus in the Poltava region. Maxim Perbynos to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the Family Medicine Clinic at: It's raining, 1st. Victor Medvedchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the violation of disciplinary conduct with regard to the Head of State Service of Ukraine for the work of Roman Chernega, who, contrary to articles 24, 38, 70, 71 of the Constitution of Ukraine, proposed to deprive Ukrainian citizens of their electoral rights in view of their property status, thereby violating the oath of a civil servant and showing disrespect for the Ukrainian people, which is incompatible with the occupied office. Victor Medvedchuk to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of access to State secrets by the Director-General of the State concert "Ucroboronprom" Ayvaras Abromavichus, who, while in another state's citizenship, manages an enterprise directly related to the security of the state. Alexander Abdullin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of the payment of benefits to participants in the liquidation of the consequences of the accident at the Chernobyl AES and to the citizens who suffered, part of their social protection and the proper level of pension insurance provided for in the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Zinovia Andryovich to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Health Minister for Secondary (specialised) Health Care: Sanitary Treatment of Children with Active Forms of Tuberculosis Zinovija Andrivovich to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the financing of the "inter-accounting arrangements" made by Johno-Frankovsk region utilities in order and under the conditions provided for by Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree No.332 of 18 May 2017. Oxana Dmitry and Vadim Galajczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing situation for the Cosatian Central District Hospital of the Cosatian District Council. Alexander Bakumov to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Kharkiv City Head, on the system of payroll for employees of the City Children’s Hospital No. 1 of the Kharkiv City Council. Victor Myalik to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine for the transfer of the National Institute of "Specialized Medical and Health Part No.3 of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine" to the municipal property of the Varas City Territorial Society. Valery Gnatenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, on a critical situation that has taken place at the state-owned company Torretskwugil due to the lack of funds that could have a very negative impact on the labour force and the residents of the city of Torecki. Mr. Black to Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the inadequacy of classification and the calculation of losses among the special composition of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to the standards of the NATO bloc countries. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration and construction of infrastructure in the Bolgradsky, Saratsk, Tarutin and Arcian regions. Alexander Fedienka to the head of the government of the Kyivoblanergo private shareholders' association for the supply of electricity to consumers in the city of Boryspiel Kyiv region. Alexander Fedienka to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Head of the National Cyber Security Coordination Centre, Director of the National Institute for Strategic Research, Head of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information to Ukraine on the State of the Formation and Refinement of the Cyber Security Strategy of Ukraine. Rostislav Tistik to the Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine for the evaluation of the activities of the Director - General of Arts, National Academy of Ukrainian Dramatic Theatre Maria Zankovetske. Arsenija Pushkarenka to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigations on intentional inactivity, service negligence, the deception of Ukrainian National Deputies and the community of Kiev regarding the investigation of the dispersal of budgetary resources on a particularly large scale, set aside for the construction of clearing facilities of the Lakes of Orihuats of the Glosssiev Park, by the staff of the Volosiow Police Department of the National Police in Kiev. Groups of National Deputies (Bondareva, Rudika, and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures aimed at eliminating artificial monopolies and eliminating violations of legislation protecting economic competition in the tobacco distribution market. Natalia Royal and Yuri Solod.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u286	All of it. Thank you. Thank you, Helen Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u287	One more second. The National MP Mjalik applied to count his vote under Law 0887 because the button did not work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-20-m0.u288	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I welcome you to all the festivals that are coming! And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
