ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u1	Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So I want to remind you, colleagues, that we have a block of industrial policy and ratification after lunch. I hope for effective work. Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So please come into the hall. You're ready, aren't you? Please take part in the registration and register. [[16:02:32]] 357 Ukrainian national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. So, I remind you, we're entering a cluster of industrial policy issues. On industrial policy, we have the first draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on promoting space activities and investing in the space sector of Ukraine (No. 9219). By my first vote, I propose that we consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[16:03:32]] For-66 66 — very little. So we're going into full procedure, draft Law 9219. And I invite you to report to the author of the bill, the national deputy of Ukraine, Teteruk Andriya Anatoliyovich. Prepare for the report by Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! I present to you the draft Law 9219 amending some of Ukraine's laws on promoting space activities and investing in the space sector of Ukraine. Why am I now asking all the national deputies who are now outside this room to stop doing other things and return to the immediate performance of their duties? Because the consideration of this bill will allow us, the people's deputies of Ukraine, to draw attention to the terrible state in which our space field is located. After the Soviet Union collapsed, we carried out a process of decommunization and removal of all the juice. There is one area where "red directors" are still in control, and they take their decisions as old healers. This work has resulted in huge projects such as "Cycloon-4", "Libydium" and all other projects that have caused damage in our country, not only to billions of government dollars that have been allocated to space projects in Parliament, but primarily to reputational losses. And what's really sad is that we're wasting our time. And that monopoly that now exists does not allow you to work qualitatively on the implementation of a space program that, by the way, is also not approved. For a year and a half, she was prepared and unable to serve on time. And the situation for today is awaiting its consideration, and it is worthless for its fulfillment and for its implementation. What does my bill propose? My bill proposes that our space field of monopoly be deprived of the unique state regulation of those who are supposed to be involved in the development of missile carriers. What will this allow? This will allow young, talented engineers, space workers to leave us in Ukraine. They show incredible results by winning NASA's hackathon, for example, by taking first places and steps. They're working on this world right now, implementing other states' programs, but unfortunately not ours. This bill will give green light to those young, talented, intelligent Ukrainians who want and can work in Ukraine for the benefit of our nation. We are depriving ourselves of regulatory functions that at the same time do not limit our nation’s commitments to peaceful space, which is extremely important. And in fact, during the discussions at the Committee on Industrial Policy, for which I am personally grateful to Victor Halasyuk, who has carefully examined every paragraph of our drafts, on the Committee on European Integration, thanks to Mary Ionovy, we have also considered every point, every change we propose, and we see that nothing prevents us today from defining ourselves in order to support this proposed bill in the first reading and, together with all the national MPs, to develop it into a second reading, thereby adding a part of ourselves, our knowledge so that an improved bill can work for the benefit of our state, so that in Ukraine we can finally have our Ilons Masks and other enthusiasts from the sphere of space research that the United States, the European Union, Poland, and all countries that are now actually called Cosmic States. Because not only do they have rockets that almost regularly raise too much cargo on geostationary orbits, not only do they succeed in developing satellites, modern satellites for nanotechnology, and are the leading countries in the development of peaceful space, but they also work qualitatively for the science that moves these countries forward, for the development, and involve young people in order to make generations from older to younger ones, for the future. So I would very much like to find consensus in the process of our discussion right now, as we have done over and over again during our work together in this session room. It is extremely important that, despite the political misunderstandings that the country is about to develop, we should be unanimous in that we cannot close our eyes to the totally shameful state of our space sector. We lose opportunities every day. We lose our pace every day. And we get weaker every day, and we keep moving away from those who are making progress every day. And instead of putting into practice really interesting space projects, joint projects that combine the efforts of all our young talented engineers, scientists, programmers, we are immersed in post-Radians space and, unfortunately, only a number of people who continue to remain in their positions and influence decision-making in both government and parliament. I am very sorry that this situation is not a disturbing call to each of us. Because this is how we deprive Parliament of the responsibility, the responsibility that we took with you in the 14th year, promising to decide, to address all the important issues that our state faces. So this bill, which I ask you to support in the first reading, I very much want Parliament to have the necessary 226 votes. Once again, my fellow national MPs, I ask you to return to the session room so that we don't fail a bill that awaits the space industry, which will be an important signal whether Ukraine will actually remain a space state, or whether it will become an addition to it. As it were, not using profanity, but a very sad situation awaits us if we do not pay attention and resolve the situation as a whole. Of course, when I defended this bill, I heard that we would not change the situation in general. We need to work here, in my opinion, systematically changing each group of issues, and we are now preparing a series of bills. But in order for them to be possible for implementation, we need to start looking at all these important complex issues by introducing this very bill -- 9219. So I urge all the MPs to return to the session room now, and I will ask again and again, so that we can vote with the green button for the bill, get the required 226 votes, and be able to restore the status of the space state to Ukraine. They could have brought back the future and allowed a public private partnership on issues that would allow us to compete with our dreary state structures. We're going to let private enterprises, together with government structures, not only share responsibility, but first and foremost compete in the quality, speed and service of developing all space programs, projects that will be interesting to consumers. Let me remind you that we used to say that every dollar of investment that's going to be invested in the space industry usually gives about $7 or $8 back and return. So I very much ask the people's deputies to return to the session room right now to vote in favour of this bill. And I'll be ready to answer all the questions you've come up with to convince you that this bill should be our joint achievement. And in our common struggle for Ukraine to remain a space state, and we had those successful projects that we would be proud of. Not the failures, absolutely worthless results that we have today. Thank you all for your attention. And I expect a positive vote from you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u3	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum, Mr. Andrey. Dear colleagues, a fairly thorough bill is being considered. And I'm asking you to sign up for a question to the honourable reporter. Please. What is more, he is willing to give a professional, complex, detailed answer to all questions from the Ukrainian national deputies. Please, Mr. Yvchenko will pass on the word to Mr. Eutuska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u4	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Mr. Reporter, I think it's a little premature to have this bill, for which there are a few reasons. But since we're already looking at this bill, I want to ask you whether there should be legal restrictions on firms that have the roots of offshores that have an unclean reputation or, let's say, an abnormal job history, but will be allowed to launch and test them? Should there be such a restriction in the bill? Because if it does, whatever it is, and if it doesn't, then we can end up in a situation where an aggressor state shows up with a firm that's going to be allowed to do these trials. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u5	Thank you, Your Honor. Your question is really interesting because we really don't have access to our technology, and in fact this bill doesn't allow access to the technologies that our state-owned enterprises own, and in particular the design offices that are developing those space projects that they're building rocket launchers. On the contrary, we allow private investment, private companies to develop their unique designs and offer them to use in the field of peaceful space exploration. In no way will they be able to do so because the existing restrictions do not allow those countries with which Ukraine does not have commitments, or Ukraine, as a state, has an obligation not to distribute certain technologies. We certainly already have a list of restrictions that we simply, we will say that this is not allowed, and you will not even be allowed to negotiate on this subject. This bill actually retains full and complete control.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u6	Please finish 30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u7	The total control of our nation over all possible launches and developments. We are simply extending the existing legislative base from state companies to private companies, giving them all the same obligations that the state has today. Thus, this bill will not in any way make matters worse, but it will, on the contrary, greatly improve the quality of the competitive environment in the area of the development of space programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u8	Thank you. And please, the next question. Ivan Sporish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u9	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Mr. Andrey, of course, I'm more than sure that the committee head will be co-reporting right after you, and 150 percent will support the bill, because it is necessary. I know that a lot of investment, though, wanted to bring different companies in Europe, Asia into the space sector. I'm going to say that one of the Indian companies asked her to bring half a billion dollars into this sector and so on, into different projects. Sadly, though, there is something so neglected that they may be chosen, begged, and not know why. So how do you figure, exactly what are the reasons why there's so much dissipation that these companies can't invest in ours, this particular space sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u10	Dear colleague, thank you for the professional question, because it is extremely important to understand processes that are taking place not only around the world, but, in particular, in the space field. It's an extremely competitive environment where Ukraine now breeds not only the rear, but also, let's say, it doesn't even feed the rear, because we're catastrophically far behind those countries that now, through private partnership, are implementing not only state space projects, but also private ones. And there's usually fierce competition, and Russia has done a lot in its time to make corrupt Ukrainian officials responsible for the implementation of the Ukrainian space program, to tear up projects, to stretch them in time and to be uncompetitive, and then to bear both material and reputational losses. That's why, in order to get our national institutions to be competitive, to understand that someone is breathing in their backs, trying to offer better products, we need to expand around those who need to implement, work on the market for such proposals. It's private.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u11	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u12	15 seconds. Private companies, which will be a powerful competitive stimulus, should motivate all of us to have results. Because it's either private or it's being held, but we're going to have a qualitative result either in one, or in another, or in a common interaction and result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u13	Please, the next question is Borislav Bereza. Please, Mr. Borislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u14	Mr. Teteruk, good afternoon. Did you know that all international activity in the world is licensed precisely because there are international arrangements according to which all the negative effects of work that have a bearing on space, as a result of the fall of some cosmic object or something else, are borne by the country itself, Ukraine. That is why all countries are licensed to understand what they will be responsible for. If you destroy the license or control of the state, any structure can use it to do whatever it takes to compensate for all the consequences will be Ukraine. And now I have Mrs. Olena Sotnik sitting next to me, who works on the Euro-Integration Committee. They said the same attitude as I did. Such a law can only be adopted by leaving it with certification and licensing that protects the interests of the country itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u15	Dear colleague, I thank you so much for this question, because it's from the past that you can't somehow get into our present. We've long since cancelled the license, and it's the question of this House's work that we've been depriving this short-term license of everything and everything. In fact, this is what we are now citing to the requirements of current legislation and we are regulating what has not been removed from this bill. If you're talking about responsibility, there's no way that we're using rocket science at the launch -- we don't even have a cosmodrome in Ukraine to launch a state of affairs for today -- but if rocket science is done, then the issue of insurance for all the consequences is the commitment that Ukraine has, and it's going to extend to all companies that will not only take development on themselves, but also the terms of insurance, insurance. And I certainly agree that there are certain issues that need to be addressed that do not fall within the scope of this bill. But. [[B in m in s a l in]] If you're talking about licensing, there.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u16	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u17	First of all, not the licensing should be our main thing, but the motivation for the certification of that product, which is exactly what we're betting on. I'm asking you to talk to the experts and get to the bottom of this, and then you're going to change your position to a more thorough one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u18	Thank you very much. Fellows, the questions are complete, although I can see that you would like to communicate more. Mr. Andrew is ready, but the Rules are not ready for this. Please, Mr. Andrey, go back to work. And I invite you to take the floor to report to the head of the committee on industrial policy, Victor Halasyuk. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u19	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! I present to you the draft Law 9219 on the promotion of space activities, the involvement of investments in Ukraine's space sector, submitted by the People's Deputy Teteruk. As the previous report noted, the drafter of the bill, the substance and the main money of the bill are to remove the state monopoly for the development, testing, production, operation of carrier rockets. Because today this sphere is in the exclusive monopoly of the state. This bill removes this monopoly, and this is a big plus. But at the same time, there are also serious downsides that have led the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration to recommend that the bill be returned to work, and the Cabinet of Ministers has concluded that the bill is not supported. But we've found on the committee how to fix these fundamental flaws, and I want to share with you this road map right now. The point is that on the basis of the bill's positions, 9219 was drafted by the committee, which unfortunately did not have enough votes to be included in the agenda. What is the key difference and that you and I are obliged to include in Bill 9219 the second reading so that it can be accepted as a whole. Two key innovations. First of all, we're going to have to provide permission to launch launches and control spacecraft. This is a very important norm because it will allow Ukraine to fulfil international commitments in the space field, such as the Agreement on Principles for the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, since the 67th year, and the recommendations on national legislation relating to the exploration and use of space for peaceful purposes (the UN General Assembly Resolution of 11 December 2003). We also discussed this on the committee, we consider it appropriate to complement the provisions of the relevant bill and to take into account the proposals of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Directorate for the establishment of a ban on space-based activities by entities that themselves are located or have founders in offshore areas that have such founders or are themselves in the aggressor state, in countries where sanctions are applied by Ukraine, the UN Radbez, etc., businesses that are in the bankruptcy phase. In general, I would like to point out that, first of all, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, despite the conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers and the GNEU, has reached a positive conclusion on Bill 9219. Secondly, we have developed a text that allows for the correction of the shortcomings that I have just pointed out, which is contained in committee bill 10096 or can be taken into account in the form of amendments to Bill 9219 if it is supported by first reading and on the basis. I want to stress the strategic potential of demonopolizing the space industry and its discovery to private strategic investors, and I want to thank the bill's co-author. Because this is really what will allow this space industry to open up to a strategic investor, for international cooperation, will allow a qualitative step in the development of the Ukrainian space industry, Moreover, I would like to point out that, apart from the adoption of this bill, we must consider the State Space Program at the next meeting, Bill 9457. And the committee insisted that this bill on demonization be considered with the State Space Program, because the Southman, because the South Bank has been loaded today by less than 30 percent. And the state space program provides for 4 billion budget funding and more than twenty billion private funding, which will be possible through the adoption of the Law on Demonstration of Ukrainian Space. So once again, honourable colleagues, the committee supports the bill as a basis, has a number of serious proposals for improving it, and insists that the State Space Programme be adopted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u20	Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u21	For this to be an integrated approach to the development of the Ukrainian space industry. Moreover, I would like to point out separately that we need to demonize space not only by opening it up for private investment, but also by allowing the authorities, the central executive authorities, to be contracting space solutions. So it's not just the State Space Agency, like today, but so that we can implement effective space monitoring, like Ukrainian forests, water and other natural resources. This is strategically important. Dear colleagues, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u22	Please stay, Mr. Victor. Mr. Victor, Mr. Victor! Dear Mr. Victor, you'll be there in five minutes. Now, please sign up for Mr. Victor's questions, all national deputies, please. Please, Borislav Bereza. Mr. Borislav, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u23	I'd like to ask you, Mr. Galasyuk. Tell me, who will answer if we cancel the certification and the license, and according to international regulations, in that case no international company will insure such risks if, according to international agreements and agreements, Ukraine itself is responsible for any negative consequences after space activities? So, please, who will be responsible if, once again, no one is afraid, and Ukraine already has that responsibility?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u24	Mr. Borislav, thank you for your question. I want to point out that the licensing of this type of activity has been cancelled just as much as the licensing of development, manufacturing, modernization of military technology and equipment. And more than that, despite repeated attempts to re-establish this license, our committee has essentially been alert not to reinstate it. And today we see that there is a whole industry of private arms manufacturers, military equipment. This works in this field -- it works in the space industry. At the same time, I would like to point out that, in order to ensure compliance with the international commitments of Ukraine and the UN General Assembly Resolution of 11 December 2003, the Agreement on Principles for State Activities in Research, the Use of Space in 67, we will insist on the second reading to provide for the very critical types of space activities, namely launches of launches of launch vehicles and the management of spacecraft. And research and development can take place without such administrative restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u25	Please, the next question. The national deputy of Evtushok. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u26	Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, you have the same question as the author of the bill. Please tell me, do you not think that the bill should be limited to participating in projects to test carrier rockets of those firms that have a questionable reputation that have offshore roots that have roots with the aggressor state? Don't you think we should make it clear in the bill that before such work, firms not from the aggressor state and with a normal light reputation should be allowed to face such trials? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear colleague, as I have pointed out, we have received an appropriate conclusion from the GNEU, which contains appropriate proposals, and we on the committee have agreed that it is appropriate to impose a ban on space activities for entities that are either located themselves or have founders in offshore territories, in the aggressor country, in countries against which the United Nations provides sanctions. And I assure you, after. If we support this bill on a basis, we will make adjustments to the second reading in order to anticipate such limitations. But now we need to define ourselves qualitatively and remove the state monopoly from the commercial activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u28	Thank you. Please, the next question. People's deputy Sverk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u29	Please pass the word to John Dmitrovich Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u30	They're sporing. Please, Mr. Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u31	Ivan Sporish, Winnitzkin, 15th district. Mr. Victor, of course, I think you are, well, and I count one of the great experts in industrial politics, and that's true, and that's true. At the same time, I will tell you this praise. So if all of these investments that would go into the space sector right now, and I think these 4 billion dollars in the Cabinet of Ministers would probably not be needed, and it would really be necessary if all of these investments were actually going into this particular sector. Unfortunately, they're kind of glowing. That's the first one. And the second. What is the main reason why this bill is negative for the Cabinet of Ministers and the GNEU? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u32	Thank you for asking. I would like to emphasize once again that Ukraine joins the unique club of seven countries that have a closed full cycle in the space industry. And we need to do everything we can not only to fix it, but to strengthen our position in this unique club. And to do that, we need to open up the Ukrainian space industry to strategic, private, international investors so that we can make a good leap into development. At the same time, however, the role of the State in the development of the space industry cannot be eliminated. So once again, I stress that we supported the committee on the basis of a draft national space program. And I'm surprised why, along with this demonopolization bill, we don't look at the space program. We need to fix this next sessional week, engage private investment in Ukrainian space, and provide adequate government orders to Ukrainian space companies. Thank you again for your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u33	Thank you. Any more self-help to ask questions? Please, Mrs. Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u34	Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I have a very specific question for you. Please tell me what we're going to do about our commitments under the United Nations Treaty of 67 on the Use of Space. First, according to him (this is a direct article): "Ukraine is internationally responsible for national activities in outer space, regardless of whether it is run by government authorities or by non-governmental, legal persons." I'd like to emphasize that this is a direct norm. And the second. "The activity of non-governmental legal persons in outer space shall be carried out with permission and under constant observation by the State concerned." It's also a straight norm. What you're saying right now, we're going to complement it. You know, according to the Rules, new standards for second reading cannot be introduced into the Bill. How are we going to correct the law, the bill that is now being passed, a direct violation of our international obligations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u35	Dear Mrs. Helena, thank you for a very professional legal question. I would like to stress once again that the relevant standards that provide for annihilation in this risk that you have pointed out have been developed by the Committee of Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, taking into account the proposals of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. Moreover, we registered a corresponding committee bill of 10096, but unfortunately, there were not enough votes in the room to include it in the agenda. Because what we're going to do is, once we've adopted this bill, which we're now considering in the first reading, we're going to make the amendments that we're going to take into account in the first order of our committee, and we're going to see the mandatory introduction of testing and launching of rocket launchers and spacecraft in the management of spacecraft, while the development and production of spacecraft can be done without permission. This will be an analogy to what we have foreseen for the military-industrial complex, for manufacturing, repair, modernization and weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u36	Thank you. That was the last question. Please return to your workplace. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for this bill from MPs and factions. Please. Please, People's Deputies, we invite you to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u37	Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine, fellow citizens of honour! It's being considered quite, in principle, and at the same time, both technical and space-oriented, a bill that's not political and that we shouldn't politicize. There are a lot of issues that are essentially economic, and the issues that relate to the country's scientific and technological development are politicized. Ukraine took place as a space country, which is part of the Soviet Union. In fact, the U.S.S.R. budget allowed the development of very powerful rocket launchers, and the participation of Ukrainian companies in large, ambitious space programs. Well, let's say it's a Soviet past, why do you keep telling him, "Red Directors"? What is more, it is said by those who do not even have anything to do with the space industry. There is no need to politicize these issues. I think that all the space-related MPs will, of course, support this initiative, because it's quite simple to rule out space licensing and allow space technology development activities to be done by private enterprises. Yeah, it's a global trend. Yes, we should not be on the outside in this regard as well. But why do we see the decline in space? And the problem isn't red directors, we don't have to put all the blame on them. The problem is also in the leadership of a country that does not pay enough attention to this area. The problem is also in this coalition that has been considering this bill for the fifth year of its existence. You came in at the age of 14, and here you updated that question. Who prevented you from looking at it when you were 14 years old? The problem is systemic very much. And, indeed, we are witnessing that the space sector is collapsing. And it declines mainly because of the closure of foreign demand markets, Ukraine will not be able to implement space programs alone, only in cooperation with foreign investors. And if this is going to be Russian investors or American investors, it doesn't matter, it's important that the enterprise works in Ukraine, it's important that this sector develop and we don't talk about politics. It's unprofessional and it's shortsighted, and it's not a government position. We will support this legislative initiative. But unfortunately, after the inaugural vote, we see how many deputies are in the hall, and there's a very high risk that it won't be supported, unfortunately. But we urge you to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, I want to make a message for everyone. Attention! So just now, I was approached by the head of Nina Petrovna's committee and reported that a compromise had been found with citizens who are now caring for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The compromise is that they proposed to amend the Transitional Positions to draft Law 8371 on electronic trust services. I've just had a brief consultation with the factions' heads, and they've been among the factions' heads, and they've agreed that after considering this law, we should vote in favour of transferring draft Law 8371 and adopting it as a basis and as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] 8371 is all right, look. 8371. I'm warning you in advance, because this is going to happen in 20 minutes. 8371 is about electronic trust services. So this could happen in an actual 20 to 25 minutes. And that's why I'm asking you to study this law right now. Well, I won't let you. You turn it on. We have an electronic "Race," they're all in the "Work" electronic system. 8371. In 20 minutes, you'll be able to see. In 20 minutes, you'll be able to make a decision. So it's in order of day, 8371. If there is the general agreement of the entire Parliament, if there is the general agreement of all the MPs, I ask you to study this bill. 8371, in 20 to 25 minutes, I'm going to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to postpone its consideration, put it on the table, and we can find a compromise. So, colleagues, so I'm asking all the faction heads to invite the National Deputies to be in the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine at 5 p.m. I think it's our chance today to relieve the tension with the citizens who are now taking care of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I call on everyone to account and urge everyone to be in the Ukrainian session hall at 5 p.m. If the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to be done, we will be able to resolve the matter. Thank you for listening carefully to my message. Now we're going to continue our consideration of the draft law. And I invite you to speak with the Self-Help faction of Olenna Sotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues, I have to tell you, first of all, the situation with regard to this bill in the Committee on European Integration. We literally invited Mr. Teteruk today, and we agreed on a position. The European Integration Committee made it clear that the bill does not meet our European integration obligations, such as articles 7, 9 and 12 of the Association Agreement. Nor does it correspond to Article 6 of the Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, in the United Nations. We agreed, and today was the conclusion of the committee that on the first reading this bill could only be adopted on one condition: if the issue of licensing would be included in the bill. But unfortunately, our colleagues are playing, you know, in the history of "The Unknown on the Moon," and they're pretending it wasn't. And they say there's not supposed to be any licensing activity, that it's a normal story at all. It's a crazy story. There is a clear requirement throughout the world for certain permits and control by the state, which does not interfere with the investment attractiveness of this sphere. Other developed countries: the United States, China, Japan and others -- they build their rockets, they build their rockets, no matter whether the state controls it properly, the issue isn't. The investment attraction is not whether there is a license or not, it is about what are the economic conditions and stability for enterprises and how to conduct investment activities. This should be a matter of concern, not a cancellation of licenses contrary to our international obligations. So, colleagues, and I am now addressing the author of this bill. This was a clear requirement of the committee, this requirement is set out in the committee's decision. Therefore, if there is no requirement to license this type of activity before the first reading, it cannot be voted on under any circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Olena. And please, Maxime Chicken invites me, please, to present his position on the Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I want to thank you all for the fact that this session hall of the Ukrainian Parliament over the past four years has adopted and voted on a series of anti-crisis laws that have allowed us to preserve the country's space sector. You and I have provided benefits for our rocket-space companies to pay the value added tax. We voted, we paid the benefits, and we got rid of import duties regarding the supply of supplies for our domestic missile industry. We gave our space shuttle a chance to survive. And I'm sure the scariest, hardest times are behind us. But we have a lot of trouble ahead of us, and we have a serious system of work. This sector needs state system support. And what Mr. Halasyuk said should have been passed a law long ago in Parliament on a new space program. These are the other questions that apply to the state defense order, which should be placed on the south side, which should be posted at the South Bureau of Design. And I thank you for all these performances. And I hear the support of our fellow national MPs. And that gives our businesses a chance and a hope that they will still have a job, they will still have a wage. Although today she's also in the South Seas, and there are delays. But this bill, it's really progressive, it's modern. Yes, he is not perfect. Dear colleagues, we must move forward. And I am convinced that we have no right to lose this good and good idea. I am convinced that this bill will necessarily be worked out in a professional committee on business and industry, and then it has the right to approve. Today we need to continue the discussion, but from the discussion, we need to move on to concrete ways of reforming the missile-space sector, because we don't have the right and the chance to lose the opportunity to be in the elite club of the cosmic states of the world. We're voting on the warnings, and we're still working on the profile committee. And we're moving forward. This bill is the first law to be in the way of reforming the whole sector. And I ask and ask you a huge request, next week the plenary is obliged to vote on the space program for the next five years. Ours are waiting for her.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u42	Thank you for your position. Please, Mrs. Kugel, present the position of the Fatherland faction. Please, Mrs. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u43	Dear friends, so interesting in the report was when they reported the law that perhaps someone would hear the bell of this stake and pay attention to the space field. I want to say that you've drawn attention to the space sector when you know that we're all together, and thank both President Kuchma and Gorbulin and Prime Minister Groissman, and Mr. Kubi, who were in defense when some of the deputies began to raid the space industry. This is the last sector that brings, at least, today, $4 billion, twice as much as the International Monetary Fund. Why is space difficult to deal with? Yeah, we can't vote for them in four years, we haven't approved the money for space development, we can't make a state-owned decision for the merger of enterprises to make a whole set of companies that run space orders. That's the first one. The other one. Do you have any idea that we're looking at a strategic field, and there are no government officials in the cabinet who wrote that they're against this law? And we're not interested, are we here with you guys, starting with the Europlaghers to space, there's no space agency here? And you know, according to all the regulations, Mrs. Stotnik said that only Ukraine is responsible as a state for any production and operation in the space field. Isn't it just rocket launchers? Ladies and gentlemen, what about the satellites? Now for the third lie of this bill. Today it's all there is, today there's a license, if you have money, and it's a lot of money, and desire -- please, according to the law that we passed with you, on a public private partnership that doesn't change the State's right to an active property, and you want to have a piece of property in intellectual property, today you have the right to sign a public private partnership agreement, nothing needs to change, this law works. The other one. If you have money and want to work in this field, get a license and work. To this day, the final branch to be developed and assisted in the country ends, not space tourism, realizing that it is both the security of the country and not just military but informational. If tomorrow anyone with money is uncontrollable, they will launch their satellites.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u44	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u45	And will control our entire private life, where will you then answer to your electorate? This bill, according to the Institute of the Korean Republic, concludes that the scientific research institute, the Cabinet of Ministers should be sent for work and adopted on the basis of a bill supported by the government and the entire space sector, which was sent by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we haven't been able to sign up for the People's Front. And the faction's position is to represent the national deputy Yuri Berez. Mr. Yuri, we're waiting for you in the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u47	Young pioneers who love the Soviet Union were here telling us that the Soviet Union alone gave us a space field. Perhaps so, perhaps so, perhaps so. Sadly, though, the previous speaker spoke of what the previous presidents, the secretaries of national security, had done all they could to develop a space field there. This is, first of all, a great evil. Ukraine's space sector has always been put under Russia. And Ukraine never had the right to work directly in the space field. And now, especially on the left, they can be excused, it's mancure, it's column five, they have this task -- not to like Ukraine. But I want to talk to the hall about something else. In fact, the Southmash in the 91st year -- it's almost 50,000 employees. The South Bank is a major and progressive development. In the last 28 years, the space industry has become such a toy for the presidents. First, by the toy of President Kuchma, who thought there was his view of the development of the cosmic field and the wrong views of everyone else. At last, a bill was put in place to make it possible to work. To work in this direction, which is one of the most promising for today. Look at Ilona Mask. The company's private, what it's done in the world right now. We, with these possibilities, have this material and technical base, unfortunately, so far in the room we can't find the only position to support the space sector. Perhaps Ms. Olena Sotnik is right that our partners may require of us certain requirements there. But I want us to think, when we vote in favour of this law, about Ukraine, about the Ukrainian space industry, and about the scientific and technological potential, mostly the workers, the engineers that represent these enterprises. Therefore, the law must be adopted. I'm addressing all my colleagues: please return to the hall, please vote. It's too much for perspective. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u48	So, colleagues, it's now nine minutes for speeches by national deputies. After that, I remind you, I'm going to propose that the bill of Law 8371 on electronic trust services, in which the committee proposes compromises with caregivers, postpone and vote. So in nine minutes, there's going to be a vote, and so I'm asking all the faction heads to see who's not in the room, maximize the room, in nine minutes we're going to move on to the decision-making. And now I'm asking you to record a performance by the National Deputies. Guzenko Vitaly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u49	Guzenko Vitaly, 92nd constituency. Indeed, this bill does not need to be politicized. And my position is to urge, my friends, to simply vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u50	Thank you. Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u51	Please pass the word to Teteruku.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u52	Please, Andrew Teteruk, author of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u53	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, I ask you to control your emotions and think about our country's strategic potential, not just to be called the space industry, but to have competitive conditions for both state and private companies. Many of the thoughts expressed by the people's deputies simply don't take into account that we had a direct ban on anyone but state companies from developing such projects. We are simply expanding existing legislation from state to private companies, preserving all obligations, all conditions of peaceful space. We're just allowing these possibilities to be realized in a competitive, equal environment and we're finally starting quality cooperation in the development of peaceful space, because Ukraine is now actually suffering from the fact that moss mold covers certain positions that determine the development of our sector. And if we don't change the terms, we're going to see a total decline, a huge amount of state funds stolen from projects that no one reports to Parliament, no one reports to the Ukrainian people. And we will not see what Ukraine remains. A state space program that can be implemented. So I'm very much asking you to come to this room right now and vote for a bill that will allow us to give green light to our talented young adults -- all those who work in space. It is extremely important that we resolve all disputes in a civilized way, by improving the rules of the bill, by filing rights. It's a perfectly normal condition when we're looking for compromises on those or other issues. But now to overthrow this bill -- it means that we're ruining the future of our space state, and it's just that everyone who hasn't voted has to take responsibility for the state of affairs in the modern space field, the state of affairs where not only do we not have space programs, but even this space program is not being implemented in time and is not being developed, and even the one that is now, it is completely not in line with the modern spirit of reality in which our country is located. Please, please, every national MP to give his vote in favour, to give his ideas as a right to improve and to work on making our country stronger, including in the development of our space sector. I very much ask you to vote for the green button of this bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u54	Thank you. The hen gives the floor to Krivenk Viktor Mikolayovich. The next is Semenha Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u55	Thank you. Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Thank Maxim Chicken for giving me his word. Dear colleagues, I served as deputy director-general of the Southmass from 2005 to 2009, for over a year as deputy head of the Ukrainian Space Agency. And we've developed a program for reforming the South Seas and the South Coast, which was 6.5 billion dollars, it was approved in 2009. And the cumulative effect would be the merger of KB and my family's Southern. It supported both businesses, but then Janukovich came, and we were expelled in March of the 10th year -- and it wasn't real. And since then, there's actually been no change in the field. Look, we're the only country in the world in which an authority that shapes state policy is running businesses that are active in this policy. It's nonsense. Even China transferred space enterprises to another government authority in 93. And when I was in college in 2009, I suggested that we hand over all the industrial enterprises from the space agency, they looked at me like I was out of my mind. They say, "Well, this is where everyone comes to run businesses." I say, "Look, the German space agency DLR, 28 institutions. They don't have any production, only those who define a state strategy, form policy rules, form government orders, and then go to market with that order. Whether it's a private company, or whether it's a state company, it's not important. It's important that jobs are in your country, and that's why all the countries of the world are fighting." This bill does not touch on licensing in any way. He's just ruining the monopoly of state enterprises on this area of activity. That's what everyone's talking about and what everybody's talking about. Why gossip about this subject when it comes to licensing? We have an active regulatory framework that we live on. Look, today, activities related to the testing, production and operation of carrier rockets, including their space launches and for any purpose, can only be carried out by companies and organizations. There's a test, there's production, there's actually launches and there's exploitation. And I agree with my colleagues that from the point of view of launches and exploitation, which I hope will appear in Ukraine, but not with the government that it is now, and with previous governments it will not appear, and it is no longer more than twenty - five years old, this. Issues with production and trials. Today, in fact, our people are leaving the country. Even that beautiful company Nosfera, who got the order from NASA, won one of the nine companies admitted to the moon mission -- beautiful, young, just celebrating Ukraine around the world, they're forced to put production outside Ukraine. Because in Ukraine it is a monopoly exclusively of state enterprises. It's nonsense! There were four billion dollars here, which is a space sector. So, space agency, his.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u56	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u57	Yes, please. I've got it. I'm uniting with mine. I've got my speech later. After Chicken. Well, that's life.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u58	One minute to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u59	No, I have four minutes of my speech, Mr. Chairman. I say I have three minutes of my speech, Mr. Chairman. 4 billion 800 million dollars is the total volume of space production last year. In 2009, 1 employee in the space sector, whom we are all proud of, who dies, produced 45 times less production than 1 Boeing employee in 50 times less production than 1 Aerobus employee in 20 times less earnings.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u60	Please give me a chance to finish, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u62	For the full time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u64	I'd like to remind you that there was a record of Chicken and Krivenk. The smoker spent three minutes, and Krivenko had three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u65	Thank you, thank you. That's why it's a question of communism, of socialism -- to keep it as it is. As it is, it will die. So today, if we don't open this sector for private investment, if we don't let there be companies in Ukraine that are doing space activities, not winning a bidding for the production of a motor for, I don't want to speak for which country, for a satellite and illegally producing it in Ukraine, because it's not possible to do it legally. And the question is, of course, exploitation and launch, of course, it needs government regulation and there is no discussion. I support the committee bill, which is 10096, but we can see it's not on the program. So I encourage the Society to support this bill in the first reading. All those remarks that were made by the profile committee, settle them between the first and the second readings and save the space sector. I'm going to remind you that because of our joint decisions, 400 million dollars was allocated at my initiative, and we've closed down the debt to the energy industry, and more than 50 million were allocated to. Together, both Maxime Chicken, and John Kulichenko, and Andrew Pavelko worked hard on this, the debt on the salary was repaid. Colleagues, I've seen the sniveling, and thanks to Oleg Valeriovich Lachka and the profile committee. Thank you very much for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u67	That's why. And you've seen all the ferrets that were at the vote today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u69	I call everyone to the hall and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u70	So, colleagues, now. I'd like to remind you, colleagues, that the closing statement of Simeoniah will be now. After that, I will put the bill to the vote, and after the vote of the law, I will propose that you put the draft Law 8371 in order of the day, in which Nina Petrovn Jujanin, as chairman of the committee, will offer a compromise position that will meet the requirements of the citizens who care for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm asking everyone to be in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in two minutes. It's easy to stand on the stands and on the air, probably, but it's harder to be on the job. I ask everyone to be in the workplace in two minutes so that we can vote on this law and then pass on the law that the committee proposes. It's Olena Sotnik. Semenach gives his speech to Oleni Sotnik. Two minutes. And then we go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Colleagues, are we in favour of allowing private companies to engage in the space industry and produce certain products in this area? Yes, of course we are. All over the world, it's allowed, it's normal practice. But now Mr. Victor is deceiving you from the rostrum when he says that we're not cancelling anything, and this law applies exclusively to allowing private companies to do this. That's not true. This law clearly amends the Space Activity Act, which abolishes licensing, which removes any State oversight of quality standards, standards of production, by trial process, which is totally unacceptable from the point of view of international requirements. The question is not that I want to please our international partners, the question is, as a lawyer, as a lawyer, I understand: when a state has made certain commitments, when all nations around the world are fulfilling these commitments, if we are violating them, no investor who respects himself will come here, will come with investments, because it will understand that there are no international standards in this country, that its production will not be acquired anywhere, that it will not be able to actually realize this production, but that its investments will simply become unfounded, and it will lose its costs. Clearly, logic is simple. Yeah, you have to open up new forms, you have to put it in the private sector, because it's more competitive. But the state has to maintain the supervisory function of standards, the control function of security. This is a perfectly normal, civilized practice. And that's exactly what we're asking. So, Mr. Teteruk, with all due respect, as you suggest, such a bill cannot be accepted. Moreover, I insist that the government is now drafting a bill that will clearly weigh all the norms introduced in accordance with international legislation. That's what we're gonna take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u72	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. Take up jobs. The name Krivenko was mentioned. Replica, please. But try very briefly, Mr. Krivenko. Take up jobs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u73	I'm glad that people who haven't worked in this field for days can comment on it, the space sector. So, Mrs. Sotnik, I respect you, but, you know, we have 99 percent of Ukrainians know how to win football, how to rebuild the economy, how to win the war. Now there are all the experts in the space field. We're talking about what we're going to accept in the first reading and we're going to work on it by consensus for the second reading. That's my offer. And I'm asking you to support everyone. It's overwhelming.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u74	Thank you. So, colleagues, do not leave the hall until two deputies have left the hall. Take up jobs. Please return from the beds, both the guest and the government, to the hall. I would like to remind you that immediately after the vote, I would like to ask you not to disperse, because immediately after the vote in favour of draft Law 9219, I will put an orderly motion to move the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services, which has found a compromise position on the support of citizens who are now under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And that's why it's going to be important to have full concentration. So, colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. There will be one vote, then there will be another vote immediately. So, are your colleagues ready? Please take up your jobs. So let's move on to making a decision. Fellows, don't be in bed. I'm addressing you. So, are your colleagues ready to vote? Let's vote, everyone, please mobilize. First vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on promoting space activities and investing in the space sector of Ukraine (No.9219). It is only proposed by the committee as a basis. So I'm asking you to support everyone on a base, to support the space sector of Ukraine. On the basis of this, please vote and please support. We're voting on the basis. Vote, support, colleagues. Based on the base. Let's vote, let's support. [[17:13:09]] For-179 Colleagues, let's go to the first-reading committee. Let us unite; this will be wise. So I'm betting. So, colleagues, here's the next offer. I propose a compromise position -- to the committee for the re-reading. Please mobilize and vote. So it's a proposition. Draft Law 9219 is for re-reading. Please vote, please support. Vote. To read again. We vote that we don't lose the bill. [[17:13:59]] For 180. And final. To return the subject to the legislative initiative for further development 9219. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please vote. This is a completely compromising position, please support everyone. [[17:14:24]] For-187 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. Now, colleagues, pay attention! Now. Attention! May I have everyone's attention, please? Now I'm going to put to the vote the proposal that the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services (8371), we've moved on to its consideration, it's still on the agenda for the day to be taken up right now. In that draft law, the head of the committee of South Carolina, Nina Petrovna, found a compromise formulation that she had arranged with the ruling Supreme Council of Ukraine. People are standing under the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I think it'll be good and right if we support them. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. Don't leave, Mr. Sergei. Mr. Sergey! Please, colleagues, prepare and vote in favour of transposition of draft Law 8371 to consider it now. Please vote, please support. Every voice, every colleague, every voice, every voice. Vote. We support the transposition of the draft law. Voting and supporting. Let's vote, colleagues. Let us support the citizens who are now near the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us support our citizens. [[17:15:44]] For 227 We've moved on. So we are going to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Trust Services (8371). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. It's a short-term procedure. Please be supportive. For short. Vote. For short. [[17:16:19]] For-161 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of South Carolina's Nina Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, thank you all for your support. Bill 8371, Government Bill and designed to bring Ukraine's Tax Code into compliance with the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Trust Services, which took effect on 7 November 2018. The committee supported this bill because it is only proposed to bring an understandable apparatus of the Ukrainian Tax Code into compliance with the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Trust Services. The Tax Code includes concepts such as "qualified electronic trust service" and "qualified provider of electronic services" and so on. At the same time, after numerous references to this bill in the committee, we discussed the appeal and our native producer that last year we made changes with more than 10,000 kilowatts in power transformers compared to imported, same transformers. For this purpose, it is proposed in paragraph 64 of subsection 2 of Chapter XX of the Tax Code, the figure 8504230000 should be deleted. Besides that. This is what we're supporting our manufacturer here. And I would also like to remind you that since July 1st, we've just started to have an electronic fuel administration system. In this context, in section II of the Ukrainian Act 2628 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other legislation on improving administration and reviewing individual taxes and assemblies, paragraph 15 of paragraph 6 should be deleted. It's about the notion of whiskey that we've made completely groundless. And in paragraphs 61 and 186, the words "targeting which corresponds to the stated activity" should be replaced by the words "any purpose". In paragraph 17, replace the words "and fuel" with the words "and fuel."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u76	Please add a minute to the committee head. And please, very carefully, very carefully. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u77	In sub-paragraph 17, replace "and fuel" with "and fuel storage." In view of the fact that today we held an extraordinary meeting of the committee and took into account the requests for the suspension of the application of Law 2612 for 90 more days in paragraphs 9.2 and 9.3 of Chapter XXI of the Customs Code of Ukraine, and in section II, paragraph 1, of the Final Positions Act 2612 of 23.11.2018, the figure 180 should be replaced by 270. In the light of the sound rights, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the prescribed bill as a basis and as a whole, we also request the commission of the Committee and the General Legal Authority to carry out the technical and legal drafting of the adopted law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u78	My colleagues, I think there's a lot of warnings in the hall. I ask you to speak in detail. I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. And to talk in detail. Please sign up: two in, two in. Dekhtyarchuk Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u79	Alexander Dehtyarchuk, 154 constituency, Dubenstein. Dearly beloved, I will allow myself to read several lines of the letter that I received. Julia Bakunec, the village of Dubljani, Demidivščina, works as a tutor in the Weselka kindergarten. "Dear MPs, I'd like to ask you. We are an ordinary family. I work as a wage teacher of 3,000, 158 dollars, a man with disabilities from childhood, 14,87 dollars. We have two children. Last year, a man made some money, bought a $500 car in Poland, an old fiat. Please support tomorrow's bill regarding the suspension of fines. I hope you'll be on the side of the common people." Honorable association, I propose to support these changes and to support the common people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u80	Thank you. From the People's Front, Burbak Maxim, head of the faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will support this bill because it is essential. And what's important is that this bill will allow owners of so-called "eurobows" to continue the possibility of blurring and completing Ukraine's state budget. Because thanks to our joint decision with you, in addition to the Pension Fund, more than 10 billion dollars were set up to pay our pensioners. Let's also let the owners of the so-called "europ" continue to be able to pay and clear the data of the car. I can honestly tell you, in our faction, I have a personal history of unforgivable relations with AutoEuroSilly. But in this case, I'm just calling on all the deputies of all the factions, the deputies of the groups, to vote in favour of this bill, and to allow the car owners to blur cars and fill out the state budget. Thank you. And once again, I invite everyone to vote. People's Front will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u82	Thank you. Colleagues, only I have a great request that the committee head consult the factions. If we give more than just the demands of the caregiver, it will not vote, and it will be a very bad service. I ask you to limit the amendments to the law only to the issues involved. So from Self-Help. Who's from Self-Help? Now from the opposition block of Dudenkov, please. Then self-help. First Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u83	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Now, unfortunately, after a bill that didn't go through that deals with space activities. In fact, in this power, space activity has been destroyed, the aviation sector in this power is destroyed, the car industry does not exist, and the helicopter industry is destroyed. We buy French helicopters with credits. Here's the policy, the industrial policy of this power. This is, of course, a simple, average citizen, a domestic issue: allowing him to blur the means of transport imported into the customs territory of Ukraine, according to a temporary order without paying the fines. This problem is once again born by this authority, but, of course, the Opposition Block, in order to protect the interests of these citizens, will support the stated legislative initiative and will allow it to delay the implementation of these dragon fines. But once again we emphasize that this is the direct fault of this authority and the imperfect legislative regulation that this authority accepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u84	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm asking you again very much, while the discussion is under way, to hold consultations, because if this is an unagreed position, it's only going to be worse that we're in the process. So, colleagues, now from Self-Help, Danchenko Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u85	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It is certainly necessary to support people on the street who have failed to meet the conditions and to continue with those with these Euronomists. But I have a question, why are there other changes in this law: barrels, transformers, something else in there, some kind of fuel? Can't you do it in a normal way? Are these the results of adopting a budget at night when someone else is doing something? Something like this seems that after the inauguration, the inauguration of Monday, someone in this room wants to do such a dembel chord, because maybe the Council will be disbanded, so they decided to stick everything they needed without reading, doing anything. Sorry, people on the street need to be supported, one readjustment, and everything else needs to be taken care of, and don't do it again as it does at night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u86	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u87	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Before the presidential election, Poroshenko went out and boasted that 11 billion dollars had gone into the budget. But what were they boasting about? They went into the pockets of every Ukrainian, once again robbed because they only know how to raise taxes, enter fines, and borrow loans. Instead of boasting about new jobs, restoring the economy, increasing wages, they boast about raising taxes. Therefore, we support the cancellation of fines for car owners on a foreign registration basis. Because when they're called "eurobillahers," it's kind of a demeaning name. They've brought people to the pen, people are spinning around like a squirrel in a wheel, like a bee, working every day, earning money, trying to feed their family, they're being forced to pay space taxes, which is more than that car stands, and they're also called Blyachers. They are Ukrainians with no jobs, no wages, and they rely on themselves and their strength. After the introduction of new taxes on these cars when fines were imposed, 200,000 cars were dumped in Poland, Slovakia, and the Czech Republic because they bought three copies and had to pay three thousand dollars a tax. That is why we support the abolition of fines at all, and we need to reduce taxes. On the contrary, in order to restore the economy, you have to lower taxes and raise wages to get people to work. If you give them nothing, at least give them a chance to earn and work. What are your initiatives? Taxes are imposed on the wages of taxpayers, taxes are imposed on car owners, and taxes are imposed on the air. And to what has the country been shown: that in Moldova wages are already higher than in Ukraine, and in Ukraine they are the last wages in Europe. We need to change this end policy!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u88	I'll give it to you from Fatherland. But, colleagues, once again, I want to point out that if we have a set of many rights in the middle of the right, none will pass. We're dealing with a specific issue, a specific situation. So I ask very responsibly if there is a desire to introduce a number of other rights, please, through other laws. You'll have a good idea. It's from Fatherland, Alexander Cugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u89	Very short. Sadly, we are always used as ambulances, unfortunately. If you remember when we considered this bill, I asked people to sit down and, in carrying out the Law on the Basic Principles of National Regulatory Policy, to find parity. Mr. Lazko, they don't do fines with this bill, they cancel them over and over again and leave 170,000 fines. And do you know why people agreed to the street in full support of your performance? Because they are counting on this term to be passed by this Supreme Council, and there will be people who will hear and obey the law in force. Please make a decision not just to delay, but give them $500 to pay now and get, to fully register Ukrainian cars, and we'll forget this problem. If a person bought a car, look, there's just one lexus or a Cadillac? Cheap cars cost money. People who use it for the family, people who use it for the business. Allow the problem to be solved, not prolonged. Now, about the amendments made by Mrs. Yuzanin. I looked at them, looked around, and I want to support them. There are no problems, there is a levelling of problems that this committee has created by making decisions. And that's why I think that we don't have to put down at least a delay and a expectation that the future power will be better, and from my practice, I know that the future power is getting worse every time, and I can tell you that we need to support this bill and go to an important industrial parks bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u90	So, colleagues, I've given the non-fractional one minute to Lechchenk. Please. And there's a representative from the government. Then he's a representative of the government, Deputy Justice Minister Glustenko Svetlana Volodymyrovn. Please, Lechchenka. I'm asking you to finish the consultation. And once again, I've publicly stated that I'm this bill, and I'm backing it up, because that's where the issues of caregivers are resolved. I took this as my responsibility, as my authority. I'm asking the committee head to find a compromise. Please, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u91	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Look, you're making a very big mistake right now, those who report and propose this bill. Instead of solving the issue of unsettled cars on the European Union numbers, you're putting a lot of changes into the Tax Code into this bill, you're inserting it out of the voice, you're inserting it. It's only the first time people have heard that right now, someone has seen it for the first time. I just saw him, I only had five minutes to study the subject. Yes, one question, what about transformers, that's a normal question, it can also be supported so that our transformers are domestic in the same conditions as foreign producers. But then you have a question about whiskey, something else about fuel and so on. So this is a question that can't be dealt with in five to ten minutes at all. So I'm proposing a compromise option: or just a question that concerns the unscrupulous numbers that citizens are concerned about, thousands of citizens are concerned about, or the question of Euronomists along with transformers. This might still be a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u92	Thank you. 30 seconds, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u93	And that's what's in the middle that can't really be worked out in these five minutes. Well, if you'll excuse me, please. This is no way to change the Tax Code. I understand everyone's used to working like this on a budget night, but what, you're duplicating this budget night bad luck, you're doing it once a quarter, or what? Well, I'm sorry, it's a shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u94	Thank you. I now give the floor to Deputy Justice Minister Glushchenko Svetlani Volodymyrni. And I ask the committee head to conclude the consultations. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u95	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Your view is on the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Trust Services. Ukraine's draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code in relation to the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Trusting Services has been developed by the Ministry of Justice with a view to bringing Ukraine's legislation into line with the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Trust Services, in particular by ensuring the use of a new understandable device introduced in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Trust Services. The implementation of the draft law will not require additional financial costs from the State budget of Ukraine. The adoption of the draft law will ensure the use of the "On Electronic Trust Services" Act of Ukraine's new understandable device, taking into account the conditions and requirements for the use of electronic trust services. Yes, in order to bring the provisions of the Ukrainian Tax Code into line with the second part of Part Four, part two of article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Trusting Services, the draft law provides for the application of qualified electronic signatures or seals, which have built-in hardware and software to protect the data recorded on them from unauthorized access, from being directly familiar with the meaning of the parameters of personal keys and their copying. In line with the findings of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, it was decided that this draft law could be adopted on the basis and as a whole. And on February 7, 19th, at an appropriate meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy, it was decided to recommend a draft law to be adopted by the Supreme Council as a basis and as a whole. Therefore, I ask the honourable deputies to support the prescribed draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u96	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I now invite the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of Southern Nina Petrovna to the rostrum. I ask you to read a compromise that will be supported in the hall. And I'm asking everyone, colleagues, to invite deputies into the hall, in three or four minutes we'll move on to making a decision. Nina Petrovna, you're responsible, you've offered me a choice that applies to, in fact, the breadwinners. Please read the changes you want to make. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank those who have come to this conclusion in such a short time, because all these decisions have been made through the committee, and it is unfortunate that the members of the committee have not reported in their factions. I mean, we're simultaneously correcting three things with this technical bill. The first is really cleaning up the premium for imported transformers, the ones that are made by our "Refractory Transformer Factory," I called it. Now, the government bill that we passed before New Year's Eve really gave a new definition of wax -- up to 45 degrees strong, and the waxes were all more than 50 degrees strong. And we've all been given, literally asked to rule out this definition, because it's wrong and it shouldn't have been given, really, by this bill. The second question. You know that since 01.07 a sophisticated system of electronic fuel administration is in operation, according to which the loving barrel that supplies tractors in the field should stand on the ground for a special purpose. In agrarians, no one is formed to call this place under the barrel "energy land." It is an agricultural assignment. Therefore, we say that on earth there is a desirable purpose. Because agrarians and everyone else from 01.07 are simply going to face the fact: fines are huge for violating the non-registration stock. And two, that's me. And the third thing I've said is that the statute of 2612 will be suspended in 180 days, not 180 days, but 270. Thus, on August 24, 2019, the penal bill will enter into force, which will impose a fine for the breach of the customs regime in which the European registration car will be located. That's all. And everyone who's meeting here is important, because this region is hurting and begging, and everyone's asking. Agrarians all sit and pray that we accept because they have large amounts of fines, and they can't do anything about it. And Europlums and citizens who use cars on a foreign registration stand under the Supreme Council. Let's do it all and take into account everything I've read, on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u98	Colleagues, tell me, do we need another discussion or can we vote? Colleagues, I'm betting on a rating vote right now. So, colleagues, I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to take up jobs. We're done here, friends. There are voices, there are no voices. Please take up jobs. I am voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Trust Services (No.8371) with those rights which the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Ms. Nina Petrovna, has read under the transcript from the rostrum as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. On the basis and in general. Vote. [[17:39:47]] For the 220. I'll bet on my return, colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. Colleagues, I'm going to put it back on now, but I'm not going to bet forever. I'm asking everyone to mobilize, everyone to be in the workplace. We're all set, aren't we? So I'm proposing to go back to draft Law 8371. Please vote, please support. For your return, colleagues. Careful. Every voice. Please vote for the return. Vote. We're backing it up. Vote. Careful. Every voice matters. [[17:40:44]] For 230 We're back. And now I'm putting in draft Law 8371 with those rights that I read under the transcript of the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of Southern Nina Petrovna, number 8371, in the second reading on the basis and in general on technical law. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Every voice matters. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Vote. Careful, please. All take part in the vote. [[17:41:26]] For 236 The law is passed. Welcome to the committee! Hello, fellows! Now it's me. Attention! Keep your distance! I'm asking the following questions about the rating vote. I'm asking you to take part in the rating vote now, colleagues, don't break up. The next issue in the agenda is the draft Industrial Parks Act (2554a). "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Development of Domestic Production by facilitating investment in the real economy, industrial parks. It's a rating vote. Please vote, this is a rating vote. If there are voices, we can get into the law if there's support. Vote. Industrial parks. [[17:42:27]] For 165 Next offer. Who's for us to go to ratifications, please support. Who wants us to go over ratifications? Who's in charge, please vote. [[17:42:56]] For-151 Almost, colleagues. And the next thing after the ratifications, we have a bill amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Act on Enforcement of Local Self-Government Authorities (6447). That's what happens after the ratifications. So that we don't put them at risk, my colleagues, who wants us to consider it in a reduced procedure, please vote. Who's the cutter? [[17:43:40]] For-141 Let's go all the way then, all right. So we're going in full procedure. And then, obviously, like the last time, we'll start this week and finish the next one, right? But, colleagues, let me run the ratings on this. Attention! Colleagues, stand by. I'm going to run a rating vote under this law. Stay where you are. I am conducting a rating vote before the start of the review of Law 6447 on Executive Implementation. Please take part in the vote. Ratings. Vote. It's a rating vote. Vote. [[17:44:24]] For a hundred and Thank you. So we're going to look at it. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I understand we're all tired, but this is a very necessary bill. It is small, quite technical, but it solves a very urgent need and problem. All of you and I have supported the reform of the decentralization of power in Ukraine and the creation of united territorial communities. For the first time in 2014, on April 1, 2014, the government of Arsenija Yatsenuk made a decision on the start of the decentralization reform. The initiator was then Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Groissman, who personally cared for and is now in charge of decentralization reform. At that time, you and I also made decisions regarding the release of state executive authorities from payment. advance contribution for execution. And so the bill suggests that we also exempt local self-government authorities from paying an advance fee to carry out executive actions. Since practice has shown that about 10 percent of the government’s public administration authorities’ decisions on the enforcement of the decisions of judges and other authorized bodies have been made. Ukraine's Law on Executive Implementation does not provide for the real responsibility of the executive services for ineffective work and the effective importance of the influence of local self-government authorities on improving it. Thus, in almost 90 percent of cases, payment of advances is converted into additional ineffective losses to the local budget. What are we supposed to do? Helping communities to fill local budgets And so, dear colleagues, I have a proposal for everyone to support this bill, because it solves a very big problem. I have repeatedly been approached by a deputy from the 204th constituency not only by the heads of the united territorial communities, but by rural heads who know that if a decision is to be made in the courts, there is a need to pay for the executive direction. Not all budgets can, and it's 2 percent of the amount of the lawsuit, not all budgets can afford it. Therefore, in some cases local authorities do not even appeal because they do not have money. That's why we're going to help the local governments, our communities, our villages, our villages, our cities, so that they can, in their judicial practice, be sure, without too much expense for the local budgets to bring them to justice on all matters. So, dear colleagues, this project I find technical. But it is essential for local governments. Thank you. Ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u100	Thank you, Mr. Maxime. Colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for Mr. Burbak for a question. You and I, by the way, have saved us some time to present the bill. So we can give more time to ask questions if we need them. All national deputies will be able to ask questions, those who sign up. So 10 minutes please leave now for questions of answers. Please, National Deputy Ivchenko. Eutushka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u101	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear reporter, can you please tell us, for example, how do local self-government authorities today differ from the pensioners who have won the courts and have waited years for the executive service, since 2007 and 2006, to make decisions about, for example, the non-retirement of pensions due to the fact that they live in a certain territory, for example, contaminated by the Chernobyl disaster? Why are companies, hundreds of thousands of companies that have not budgeted government budgets or local budgets for decades, not tens of years, and tens of years waiting for the executive service to carry out its direct duties? And finally. I'd like to. We support this bill. But I would like us to systematically approach that the executive service today does not fully ensure that decisions are implemented, especially those relating to the State or authorities of local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u102	Please, yours. No, please finish 30 seconds. You'll have three more questions later, of course. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u103	Thank you. And in connection with this, Mr. Reporter, Mr. Maxime, and in connection with this, people have been waiting decades for companies to make decisions and to withdraw either from the state or from local self - government authorities the corresponding costs. And I say, first of all, these are pensioners, low-income or small-scale entrepreneurs who won the courts today. So I would suggest that if we accepted in the first reading in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u104	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u105	Mr. Wadim, thank you for the right question. But I don't represent the executive agency here. And if you have that question, tomorrow you'll have an hour of questions to the government and you can ask the minister of justice, he'll give you an expert answer. In particular, I would like to point out that I would like to propose to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. Why? Because the problems that you have just outlined are already foreseen in an active article of the Ukrainian Law on Executive Conduct. I will read to you in article 26: "The payment of the advance also exempts state bodies, war invalids, invalids I and II groups, legal representatives of children with disabilities and invalids I and II groups, citizens referred to categories I and II who suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, when they are asked to serve in the State Executive Service." I completed this end of article 26 with three words: "the organs of local self-government." And I remember that when you were the head of the Association of Rural Communities, we defended our interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u106	Please finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u107	We did what with you? We were implementing a 14th-year decentralization reform that was initiated by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk on April 1, 2014. And remember, together with you, how did we convince all those who were our opponents, who needed to regain power, who needed to return money, taxes, and authority, and the responsibility that someone forgot in their places, our communities? So why not support them now so they don't spend their budget money thoughtlessly, not building gardens, asphalting streets, building street lights? Why can't we help them now so they can actually use this money for their community? Please support our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u108	Thank you. Please, next question, Mrs. Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u109	I want to say that the faction supports this proposal. And I think we are. Mr. Ivanchuk, don't distract me. Thank you. I also want to support you in part to vote this bill as a basis and in general to give it more implementation, that's for sure. And as for the questions raised by my colleague Yvchenko, I want to say that as a member of the Legal Committee, there is a very serious problem with the question of the execution of judgments. We've got this canvas covered. We gave the executive service the opportunity to make money, but decisions are not being made. We also need to pay bribes for the funds we officially pay. No person who has addressed me and who has won all the courts, including European courts, has any chance of obtaining a court decision in our country. And that's a separate question. And I would ask you as a progressive person as a member of this committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u110	Thank you. Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u111	Mrs. Alexander, thank you for supporting this bill. I understand that there is a question for the executive service, and there is a question for our judicial system. And together we all voted to reform the judicial branch of power. Yeah, it's not easy. But we see that the Supreme Courts are up, they are up, and now the local courts are up. I think we should. And Paul Petrenko, along with you and his minister of justice, also initiated reform and executive service. There are private and private executive services that may be better able to perform these functions. We have to do this. Let's give ourselves an answer that what we did in this Supreme Council was not done 24 years earlier. There's a lot of problems. We started with you in the 14th year after the Victory of the Dignity Revolution to do what was not done in the state. So take it one step at a time. And I understand that the expectation of society, that we should do it quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u112	Finish 1 minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u113	And we have to live up to these expectations for the people. And so once again, I can confirm that the People's Front faction is that this composition of the Supreme Council should continue to work for the next term elections to the Supreme Council. There is no guarantee that the next composition of the Supreme Council will be better. When will we have such a pro-European constitutional majority of the pro-Ukrainian population in this room? We have done fundamental things for our state: decommunization, then we have established in the Constitution the invariability of the external course of membership of NATO and the EU, we have signed an Association Agreement with the European Union, together with you, we have implemented a plan of action that was developed by the government of Arsenija Yatsenyuk on the introduction of visalessness, and our citizens have been traveling together for two years in a row in Europe without visas. We did what we did.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Burbak. And the next question, National Deputy Rybchin, is yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u115	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. Please pass the word to my colleague, Vadim Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u116	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Mr. Maxim, once again, I would like to say that "The Fatherland" has definitely supported and will support local self-government bodies, especially in a bill that liberates local self-government authorities from the advance payment for executive actions. But, Mr. Maxime, I have addressed you as a member of the coalition, I have addressed you as the leader of the faction, and as a person who is actually the same as the Ministry of Justice in connection with the fact that your representative is there. And I've been paying attention, and I'm asking you to pay attention to the execution of decisions by the executive service on the grounds that they have to charge funds from government authorities and from local self-government authorities for the benefit of pensioners. And let's settle this question. That's exactly what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u117	Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u118	Thank you for asking. Mr. Wadim, I'll remind you again that tomorrow will be an hour of questions to the government. And if the Fatherland faction doesn't have the opportunity that you're the only one who's signed up, and you won't get the word tomorrow, then I'm ready for the People's Front faction to give you that word so you can ask Mr. Petrenko a question directly. And secondly, as a former member of the European Ukraine coalition, I would like to remind you that we all voted together for this composition of government, and you also voted for Paul Petrenko's Justice Minister, I'm sorry. Next. Dear colleagues, as the faction that has remained in the coalition for five years, has already been a pillar of democracy and parliamentaryism in this session hall, which has taken responsibility for what has been happening in our country, which has done everything, regardless of its ratings, in order for the country to continue its reforms and become a European Ukraine, which has done everything to ensure that 5 percent of the gross domestic product is sent to national security and defence measures that have done everything to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u119	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u120	If Ukraine is to move confidently towards its membership in the EU and NATO, we will do everything. And most importantly, I think it's a trait of responsible government men. Sometimes, and I think, we should always acknowledge mistakes and find the courage to correct them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u121	And a final question. Sergey Eutuszek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u122	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland. Please give the floor to the head of the Association of Rural Councils of Ukraine, Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u123	Mr. Maxime, I would suggest that we return to the vote if we have votes. And we would vote in favour of the bill. But here's the question. You know, when we were in the coalition for the first year, we didn't vote for the budget. And the main criterion of our non-voting, even in the coalition, was the introduction of a pension tax on pensioners. And the second is the main thing -- they call decentralization in rural and rural councils today, when budgets were increased there, not in the united communities, just 39 times the only tax per farmer and agriculture, they're not united communities. So what I'm asking you to do is remind you exactly why we didn't vote for the budget at the time, they're pensioners and increases in agrarians and cancellations.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u124	Please, Maxim Burbak. And I'm going to continue the session until the answer is complete. I've already given the word Burbaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u125	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear Mr. Vadim, before your colleague gave you his word, he called the village councils. That's why we did the decommunization process so that we could forget the word "consult," we're not in the Soviet Union. On the second question, I'm sorry, but this is your position not to vote for the budget. I was sorry that our coalition colleagues did not immediately vote in favour of the budget that was supposed to be the main thing -- the financing of our army, the financing, the rebirth of our army, the deterrence of Russia as an aggressor country. I'm sorry that these issues are important that you've raised are the reason why you don't vote for the country's budget, which is at war with the largest aggressor country in Europe. But the People's Front faction, as always, took responsibility, took responsibility, and would take it in the future, no matter what, our political power is responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u126	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u127	Our faction of the People's Front, our political power has carried, carried and will bear responsibility in our Ukraine. We will continue to build a European independent Ukraine and, I am sure, you will also help us to do so. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u128	Thank you. So, colleagues, I want to inform you that the continuation of Bill 6447 will continue for the next plenary day when we work. It will begin with a report by the head of the committee on legal policy and justice, Alexeiev Igor Sergiyyovich. So, colleagues, it's 6:00. We could have adopted many more laws, but unfortunately, the time is spent for such a unique possibility. And I now give the floor to the announcements to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u129	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Andrey. Allow me, colleagues, to announce. Several statements from our colleagues came to the fore, particularly from the Parasuk People's Deputy, which did not work during the vote in favour of Law 8371, which deals with the issue of rallying near the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And he's asking me to count his voice as "yes." And there was also a statement from the interfractional merger of the Parliamentary Cube-2019 that this Sunday will be held to support the children of displaced persons from the east the fourth charity football match "Parliamentary Cube-2019" between the teams: the National People's Deputies' Team and the Ukrainian Journalists' team. And in fact, our colleagues, who are not only Ukrainian national deputies, but also football players, are inviting everyone to this cup.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m1.u130	Colleagues, we had an important and, above all, effective day. We finally took off the inaugural plot. We were able to pass the D.B.I. Act. We were finally able to remove the political tension with the people who are standing next to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with which I welcome everyone, colleagues. Unfortunately, though, we have to suspend our work until tomorrow. Therefore, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And tomorrow morning, I invite everyone to continue our work, not as easy as it is necessary for the country. Thank you. See you tomorrow.
