ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u1	Good morning. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. So, colleagues, take up jobs. Please register and log in. Let's register, colleagues. [[10:02:51]] 323 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. I'd like to inform you that today is the birthday of the national MP, Alexander SemenovichPresman. We welcome him on his birthday. And I also want to inform you, colleagues. Welcome. I would like to report that before I move on to the speeches by the national MPs, I'm announcing a statement that came to the presidency from two factions, the Radical Party and the Fatherland faction. They're ready to take a break from the rostrum. And I'd like to invite you three minutes before Mr. Gallasuk's performance. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u2	While the Ukrainians measure their analysis, the Radical Party team proposes a strategy for the country's development, it proposes a concrete plan to address the most painful problems that concern every Ukrainian citizen today. The first is the solution to the problem of artificially elevated municipal tariffs because of fair pricing, taking into account the real cost of Ukrainian gas. Ukrainian gas is considerably cheaper to import, so it is totally unreasonable to compare it to the so - called import parity required by the International Monetary Fund. The relevant draft decree has already been tabled by Oleg Lášk to Parliament, and we insist on his immediate consideration. Large-scale energy modernisation is what needs to be done right now in order to lower, not raise tariffs. That's why Oleg Lyashk, Alexander Dombrowski and our colleagues introduced a draft legislative act so that at least 10 percent of the grant amounts would be directed towards energy-efficientness, to "heat credits." This is a real solution to the problem. Import energy carriers. Billions of imported gas and coal are bought each year, while Ukrainian coal miners are not paid for, and at this time Ukrainian gas is not growing. This needs to be corrected immediately. Finally, the return to the state budget is unfair, illegally paid to Koboljevo and his deputy prizes of almost one and a half billion dollars. Oleg Lazko registered an appropriate ruling in Parliament. It must be received immediately and returned to every Ukrainian who has been stolen by Kobolje and his supporters. The second strategic problem is low wages and pensions in the country. It can be corrected by raising social standards and by developing the Ukrainian industry. To that end, we introduced an industrial reform package, industrial park legislation, free networking, "Buy Ukrainians, pay Ukrainians." These are the mechanisms that will allow the creation of several million jobs in Ukraine and raise wages, which means that the pension of Ukrainians is not by percentage, but at the same time, and not before the elections, as the current tax authority does, but on a permanent basis. The third is the financial stability of the economy. Today, the authorities are artificially strengthening the bracelet, making financial speculations, making money for foreign investors, not for Ukrainians to develop their own economy. The Radical Party team proposes the opposite: a change in monetary policy based on a United States example. The draft amendment to the Constitution is already in Parliament and is even agreed upon by the profiling committee. Let's develop our own Ukrainian economy, not act under the dictatorship of the IMF, as today's government does.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u3	Thank you. And the next statement from two factions is "The Opposition Block" and "Resurrection." Doubenkov is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u4	Dear Ukrainians, dearest to us! Today is a very remarkable day in the history of Ukraine. Just 75 years ago, on April 10, 1944, this glorious city on the Black Sea was liberated from German - Fascist invaders. This feat of hundreds of thousands of Red Armys, Red Cells, guerrillas and simple Odessyths who didn't want to be indifferent to this fate, and they became side-by-side to protect their own land. We bow low to you, the coming generation, so the immortal feat that you have committed, and it will certainly live in the ages. He will survive us with you, for we are left with only what we have done, not what we say. It was on this day that the Soviet military forces and the alliances of the 3rd Ukrainian Front under the command of the same Odessit – Rodion Malinowski, the general of the army, broke the resistance of the German army and created the necessary conditions for the further liberation of our native land from the German-Fashistic invasion. During the 907 - day occupation, Odessa suffered incredible losses. The 82,000 dead, the 78,000 forced into Germany, the Nazi Germany -- those are the losses that our land has suffered, those are the losses that we have suffered to this day. It has to be noted that this day should be a lesson for us that we don't have to tolerate any Nazi and nationalistic ideologies, because the consequences of this ideology can be felt at any moment, because history, as you all well know, can be repeated. We are the descendants of the liberators of all the Ukrainian land, we are the descendants of our grandfathers and great-grandparents, who have liberated our home land with this immortal feat. Remember this immortal feat. And we won't let any man change history, rewrite ideology, heroize those who actually protected the fascists and Germans who were the invaders. We remember your immortal feat.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u5	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u6	We want to say that your memory, your actions, live in our hearts. Eternal glory to those who stood before death in the name of life! Eternal glory to those who gave their lives on the altar of victory and did not spare them for a great victory, so that we may be descendants of the victors! Glory to You and Eternal Memory!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u7	Thank you. So, colleagues, I remind you, we now have 30 minutes of performances by national deputies, not by factions, but by national MPs. Therefore, I ask all national deputies who intend to take part in the discussion to sign up. So there's a recording of the performance, please. The Bible invites us to speak. He's handing over the coop. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u8	Good morning! VitaliCopry, non-factional party MP. Dear colleagues, I have dedicated four years of my life to fighting the Dusty regime. You know I'm the first member of the Supreme Council to come out of this disgraceful faction in March 2015. Thank God, our joint efforts, the efforts of public activists, journalists, MPs who opposed this regime have become aware of the violent facts of corruption, the state betrayal of Dustyenko, his involvement in many corruption schemes and crimes. For the time being, he has completely lost the President. President Zelenski's candidate, who I believe will win the second round. At the moment, those forgeries that have been involved -- and we know they've been, and they've been, they've already been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, they've been, Recently, at the closed meeting of "Peter Prashenko's Block," the president acknowledged his mistakes and said that he had adjusted that he had changed something, set someone free, and now everything would be fine, and he's setting everyone up for his victory. It's a bluff, it's pure water provocation. Nothing's gonna happen. The powder has to pack the bags and go out. I've prepared a plan for a way out of the crisis, an anti-corruption plan that I'm going to present to the next President of Volodymyr Zelenski. It will be clearly described what needs to be done, when and how, and ready to take responsibility to cut off the head of the hydra of corruption, to do the result, to show how our lives can be improved very quickly. So I call on the deputies, and now the interfractional association for the future president of Greens is registered, to unite our efforts. We started our work yesterday and found that the billboards with the pictures of Putin and Dustenka are illegal. You couldn't do that, and they have to be dismantled. Because if Putin even gave his written consent under the Advertising Act, it is not possible to involve foreign citizens in his election campaigns. We'll be in this situation. We're going to set such a clear barrier to counterfeiting, we're going to fight anyway, so that Dusty can't go any further, and we're definitely going to send him to the bottom of political history. VitaliCopry, non-factional, unparty, For Zelenski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u9	Thank you. And we are all convinced that his country's development plan will be presented in honest debates that will take place under the law in Ukraine. Because refusing to participate in the legal debates is a disregard for the law of Ukraine, it is a contempt for all of us. If we disregard the law today, how can a person be able to lead a country tomorrow if there is direct disregard for the law today? We believe that in the debates provided for by the law, all views and concepts will be expressed. Please, Sporish conveys the word to Saul for the talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u10	Good afternoon, a respected Ukrainian society! Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. Dear colleagues, I am convinced that the presidential elections will be over, we will conclude our consideration of the Ukrainian Language Act and move on to the very important issues that Ukrainian society has long been looking forward to. And I would like to remind all of us that when we vote in favour of pension reform in 2017, one of the key elements of the reform of the pension system that the Ukrainian Parliament approved was the need for a mandatory accumulation of pension systems from 1 January 2019 in Ukraine. Because already today, the pension system is one of the most subsidized articles in the Ukrainian budget. Today, the deficits of the Pension Fund are higher than those of the Ukrainian Army, which are higher than those of the Ukrainian law enforcement system. If we look at the growth of Ukrainian demographics, sooner or later we need to understand that Ukrainian pensions in the long run will be more like social assistance. And so if we don't reform the pension system, and the only way it's reformed, the civilized, the international way is through the introduction of a mandatory cumulative pension system, we can start funding pensions and pension systems for our future generations to collapse. I want to point out that the cumulative pension system is not just next to the pension insurance system, it's not just an opportunity to receive and have a self-consuming pension account, it's also an opportunity to additionally store funds as a result of the investment income in this stockpiling account. But at the same time, it's a colossal, important source of domestic investment in the Ukrainian economy, long awaited by Ukrainian citizens. Today, Ukraine remains the only country in Europe that does not have a mandatory accumulation system. This tells us that in the near future we are depriving Ukrainian citizens of the right level of their pension. And that's why I'm addressing the leadership of the Supreme Council: after the finalization of the speech law, after Parliament enters its usual pace of work, to put one of the first, in the passing part of the debate, Bill 6677, which is signed by more than 60 national deputies, which regulates the order of implementation in Ukraine of the mandatory accumulation of the pension system, the system that we've been talking about for decades, and the system that Ukrainian citizens are looking forward to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u11	Thank you. It's a word for Kulinic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u12	OlegKulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! It's clear that most of the population of Ukraine now live on the second round of presidential elections, in the agenda of the day, the television debates of the two presidential candidates, but it's clear that even after the election, the problems that people now have in places are utilities, tariffs -- they're not going anywhere, they're going to have to be solved right now, and after the election. Last week, I took part in a regional platform of the Association of Ukrainian Cities held at the center of the constituency in Mirrod, where almost all the heads of the OTG, the city heads of the Poltava region, were present. And they're all unanimous in thinking that reform started decentralization is the right reform, it shows positive results, and that's obvious, but it has to be brought to a logical conclusion. Well, first of all, it's about road repair. The heads are concerned that the government budget subsidy goes not directly to the OTG, but through district government administrations. As a result, there is a strange situation where the same road is repaired by different contractors in different price categories, because there are different balanced promoters. The second problem is the duplication of individual R & D and R & D functions. For example, when the community covers virtually the whole area, but there continue to be branches of the reservist departments that duplicate the same functions of the OTG departments. And then we also have strange things to do when it's not clear who should support, for example, the district hospital, who should grant the subsidy, and whose problem it is in general. And another huge problem that's very concerned about local self-government, and this issue has stood out strongly -- it's a proportional electoral system with open lists, followed by the last local elections in 2015. It has shown its full inefficiencies because district centers and cities have been left without deputies at all, and we have villages that are represented by two or three deputies. It's an abnormal situation. So is the land issue. It's good that the government is actively moving the transfer of land outside of the population to the OTG, but there are also issues of control and other things that need to be regulated only at the legislative level. And, most importantly, it must be some clear criterion in the formation of a territorial community, in the formation of a united territorial community. It's about a certain minimum population, so let's say 12 or 15 thousand, because communities with a small population quite often show their inefficiencies. In summary, I would like to point out that local self-government is the foundation of democracy and a strong European state, so both the government and parliament should work in sync to bring decentralization reform to a close. logically complete. This requires a package of bills, and I am convinced that Parliament and the government should be the only ones. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u13	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the national deputy Igorya Shurma, he was given the word of the national deputies Martovicki and Ostapchuk. It's six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u14	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. First of all, I would very much like to have this speech focused on, first of all, the people who are sitting here, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the candidates for presidents, and the President-in-Office, and the President-in-Office, and the President-in-Office. If we are all busy with language, the disease does not choose what color the skin flower is, or what language the patient speaks, and what is the rash. Ukraine is the first in Europe to experience a crust. Moreover, in Serbia’s second city, the number of cases, I emphasize, is tens of times smaller. Even in official statistics since early 2019, nearly 40,000 people have suffered from measles in Ukraine, including more than half of them children. 40,000 in three months! In general, from the beginning of the outbreak of bark, think of the 21st century! - 35 people died, 14 of them Ukrainian citizens since the beginning of this year. It's official statistics. According to the Public Health Center of the Ministry of Health, 2,000,250 people have suffered from measles during the last week, compared with children and adults. After a few weeks of falling, the incidence of measles in Ukraine is rising again. What does this talk about? Only that the Ministry of Health’s headquarters for the fight against bark, by the way, which has been working since July 2017, has completely failed to cope with its tasks. The so - called special operation of the Ministry of Health of Vaccines, which has lasted for months and which has been hacked into and ploughed into the responsibility of Minister Suprun, who is protected by the incumbent president and the entire Cabinet of Ministers, is a failure and completely incompetent. From March 28 to April 3, the largest cases were reported in the Ternopil region, Kiev, Kiev, Kharkiv region, Hmelnitsk district. Since the beginning of the year, this year, more specifically, 37,000 328 people have become ill. Consider: This year, 14 people died of complications. The increase in disease is understandable. Pre-election emigration, population and elections resulted in mass contacts. And the main route of chrome infection is known to be air droplets. And all of this is because in most areas there was warm and sunny weather that affected resistance. Because the crust virus in the environment isn't stable, it's activated at room temperature for 3-4 hours. What do we have instead? Permanent notes from the Ministry and no explanation. We are the first not only in Europe but in the world. According to a reference to the World Health Organization, UNICEF reports that the biggest increase in measles in 2018 is observed in Ukraine, the Philippines, and Brazil. So what I'm saying is if you add all of the crust cases in Brazil and the Philippines, it's less than one third than Ukraine itself. What the MOH’s leadership is refusing. Why does the MOH’s leadership refuse to acknowledge mistakes and not declare an epidemic? I would like to point out that the position of the head of state, who is covering up the activities of the MOH, who for the third year has no mastermind and is a crime. There is no appropriate response to the responsibility of health officials responsible for death today. People die, and they die in 2018 already, and in 2019. A year ago, we predicted such an event, and we called on the Ministry to do what. Here's the ministry's response: "Ukrainian disease has been predicted to rise again in measles." They predicted in February 2018, and people die. Who is responsible for this? We're the only state in the world that doesn't recognize the mortality of vaccination. We don't have services today. You're the one who hid their destruction. The original chain didn't work. It's your fault half the change is taking place. Quarantine or an epidemic should be announced by the head of state health care. No one is in this position. This epidemic would probably be, but it wouldn't be that big, and it would have operational response mechanisms. You don't know that there was no representative to the Ministry in spite of the Prime Minister's mandate at the committee meeting? Here's Groysman's signature: please participate and ensure representation. Rosenko. Why does no one come or listen to true information? Mr.Groysman, Mr. President, Mr. President's candidate for President Zelenski, is now in this power and you may be able to say "stop" to this mess in this area in the future. You are obliged to appoint a minister of health, get your bonus, and let the election take place. And do it for the people. The pyar is for you, above all. Either, Mr. President, vote for the election and release this person, either force the Kabmin, or bring her into the hall. Because it's a game on your feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u15	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Spivakowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u16	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Unfortunately, in the political struggle, we forget about the main value of our Ukraine -- our young people. I would like to remind everyone that today there will be parliamentary hearings on development, balanced development of human capital in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the issues that will be discussed there are not just important, these are security issues. Because what is happening today in Ukraine unfortunately shows that many people do not understand what is happening and are leaving Ukraine accordingly. According to IMF and UN officials, according to the Human Capital Index, Ukraine took 50 seats as early as 2016. Today, October 18, 2018, according to the UN and IMF, we now hold 50 seats. 26th and 50th. We've double-crossed the human capital development index. What questions will we consider? First of all, we need to understand what human capital is. This is really an abstraction designed by man to measure the professional, life, spiritual competences of a man who can create value in a country. Dear colleagues, we're losing human capital. Even after the reaction that I see today, we can see that there is no question in our national MPs that our Parliament does not exist. Human capital is a dynamic concept. And the loss of the human capital that we feel in the country today must be tied up, for I do not see any other motivation for the national MPs to be attached to the number of national MPs. And if Ukraine has lost 25 percent of its human capital over the years, we should have not 450 people's deputies, but 360, and every million people's loss of human capital should be determined by the number of people's deputies. Next. Look at the time that we're here in this room, we're discussing our young people's development of human capital. This could be 2-3 percent of those issues: fighting for power, fighting for gas, for oil, for CBC, for distribution of powers, and so on. We never have time for youth. And young people react appropriately to elections. I want to take advantage of the pragmatic moment of the election of the President of Ukraine, so that today -- and today, 977 people from all over Ukraine will come in to discuss these issues -- will use it to enable the future President of Ukraine to understand that without the development of human capital, there is no future Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I invite you to discuss this with us so that we can understand what is the main value of ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u17	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's MP Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! For me, it is a great honor, as a national of Ukraine, and as an Odessy, first of all, today from the high parliamentary rostrum to greet the Odessyts and all those who love and value the glorious city of Odessa, with the 75th anniversary of our city's liberation from the fascist invaders. On April 10th, 1944, the troops of the 3rd Ukrainian Front led by Marshal Malinowski (by the way, also by Odessa) liberated Odessa. For 907 days our city was under occupation. Eighty-five thousand people were killed during this occupation, and 78,000 were forced into forced labor in Germany. For me, as for most Ukrainian citizens, the heroes are the people who for 73 days defended Odessa, who fought Fascism during the occupation, guerrilla groups, and who liberated Odessa. To me, these are people like Marshall Malinowski, Deputy Admiral Zhukov, NinaOnilova, Audiev-Chornomorsky, Jacob Gordijenko, Mladcz-Badajev and many others. We grew up like these people. We've been studying a real story -- a story that really laid the foundation for our independence. Because it was according to the Great Homeland War that Ukraine became one of the founders of the United Nations. And that's when these heroes were really the foundation of our independence, our nation. Today, I would like to say, unfortunately, one more thing. Equally, almost exactly five years ago, Odessa had a terrible tragedy, the scariest since the Great Homeland War, and the number of victims, and the cynicism, and the vandalism of what had happened. I mean the tragedy of May 2, 2014. I believe that another active parliament can return to the question of a temporary commission of inquiry into this event, which will give impetus to a real investigation of this event. And we have to make sure that those responsible for this tragedy are punished and that the law still works in our country. It's not just the city of Odessa that demands it, it's the whole world of co-operation and Ukrainian society. Dear colleagues, I wish them peace, I welcome them to the feast, I wish them long years of life to those veterans who are alive today and who have liberated our city. It is an eternal memory for those who have not lived to this day. And Odessy is prosperity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u19	Thank you. Michael Bondar gives the floor to Igor Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u20	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, I will try to provide you with information that has been investigated by Journalists of the New York Times regarding the dissatisfaction lists of the Central Intelligence Agency of the Russian Federation in Ukraine and other countries. In the context of the Scripalov investigation -- and you know that Russia is directly involved, and the orders were given not by anyone in these matters -- in the context of this investigation, a journalist traveled to many countries, including in Ukraine, and interviewed one of the contractors of the assassination, such as Mr. John Mamchure in Ukraine. This is the man Putin personally accused and considered involved in the supply of weapons that helped defeat Russian aircraft in Georgia. Thus, in the context of this investigation, it has been established that there are such shooting lists, and we remember a recent attack on one of the journalists in Ukraine, where our special forces claimed that such dissatisfaction lists existed. The United States has begun to investigate the foreign activity of the General Intelligence Agency of the Russian Federation. We don't have enough in Ukraine to deal effectively with this huge piece of legislation. We remember the "book of vengeance" in Israel, which fought for the destruction of terrorists, international terrorists, I stress, all over the world. Today we see that people can only be killed because of one insult to Putin, no matter where this person lives. Today, Putin may have been offended, and the people of Ukraine have taken offense to the 'Jhtamnets' in Crimea, and the people of Ukraine have taken offense to their 'Jhtamnets' who have come to us on the 'Towns' and on the tanks. So for the death of our relatives and for the occupied land, we also have to be able to dissipate in any territory of any country. Let's remember all these stories about the murder of Amina Okowaywa, Mr. Shapowala, a recent attempt on one of the colleagues of the Ukrainian Intelligence Directorate, let's remember the murder of Sheremet and the same Mamchure. Or has anyone forgotten the assassination of our colleague Moseschuk, or has anyone forgotten the assassination of our colleague Anton Gerashchenk? And that's what the Russian Federation's special forces are all behind. To date, the External Intelligence Service and the Central Intelligence Agency of Ukraine have sufficient facilities to gather and analyse information regarding international terrorists in form and without the form of the Russian Federation’s Armed Forces. We have to give the opportunity and support our special forces in the legal plane to have this opportunity. In addition, I call on the PNB to apply enough extended sanctions to individuals of the Russian Federation. So I urge my fellow MPs to join in drafting a bill that will allow us to implement it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u22	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u23	which will allow us to carry out specific tasks in other territories after the destruction of international terrorists in form and without the form of the Russian Federation Armed Forces. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u24	Heroic glory! The Peacekeeper gives the word for Nestor Sufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! I want to remind you today that on March 31st there was a presidential election, the first round! I want to thank all the Ukrainians who have come to the polls and have fulfilled their constitutional duty. Thank you to all who voted, especially to all those who supported Yuri Anatoliovich Boyk. Thank you, dear! Today I want to thank Yuri Anatolyevich because the election campaign was too complicated. We had a chance to win and get into the second round, but the technology of pulling votes, unfortunately, with the use of our comrades, did work. Well, this is yesterday, we're looking at the future. And the future is this: for the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, the price of gas for industry is almost 1.5 times lower than the price of gas for our citizens. What's going on? What's the 1.5th price for the Roshenka sugar plant than the price for our citizens? Is this a new life? It's a disgrace! Today, we understand why Dusty has 100 times as much income as he did last year, and that's what he officially declares -- 100 times! There's also this shameful price for gas. I'm looking at the demand for debate. Of course, I'm in favour of the debate. Although I don't believe that Dusty will come to the debate. What will he talk about? What does he want to do? So the people of Ukraine ask him: What prevented him from doing so for five years? If he says war, he promised peace. As a man who promised to bring peace to Ukraine, he was elected president five years ago. And that he didn't know anything. He knew everything Zurabov had warned him, others warned him about the consequences of his crazy decision to fight. And the results were felt throughout the country. June 30th, 14th, is a black day in our country's history. And what moral right, by the way, does Prashenko have to call someone to a debate when he himself twice -- in this election campaign and five years ago -- didn't come to the debate himself? But the ruling of Prašenko and the government as a whole has been handed down by the Ukrainian people: 84 percent is a national rating of personal dust and authority. And if you subtract everything that's bought and done, it's going to be more than 90 percent. The wisdom of the Ukrainian people proved to be. She said, "Go away! Bandy. "
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u26	I thought you were a member of the faction to thank Wykulu and his voters for voting. So, colleagues, the closing statement. Papieuve gives the floor to a national deputy named Pavlovek. At least thank the faction's head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u27	Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Yuri Pavlenko, "The Opposition Platform for Life." In my speech, I would like to draw attention to the problems that have arisen in the child protection and rights system. In recent years, there have been profound, systemic deformities of State policy on children, and we also see the complete failure of central and local authorities to ensure the protection of children's rights. All the major so-called reforms, and rather the changes to legislation that have taken place in education, in medicine, decentralization, deinstitutionalization, when they meet a particular child, conflict and cause more harm to the child than before. Moreover, none of these reforms are in the best interests of the child, and there is a consistent gross violation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and in fact there is increasing damage to the child. Of the so - called 800 united territorial communities, only 10 percent of them (about 80) took over the child’s protection and rights. I'm going to remind you that today there are 1 million children in the OTG. Thus, only up to 10 percent of this million are now provided with legislation for the protection and protection of children’s rights. That's why, I think, each of us, from the national MPs, are getting a lot of complaints about child abuse from specific officials who just or don't know what to do or who aren't at all. I would like to pay particular attention to the implementation of our Law on Children Who Have Suffered From Military Action and Armed Conflict. It's been a year. 13,000 children did get this status. At the same time, within three years of the existence of a law of appropriate decision by the Cabinet of Ministers, no action is being taken to help the child, no rehabilitation service is being provided today. I would like to take particular note of the so-called recent innovations of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers regarding "baby boxing", multi-child payouts, "municipal nanny", which are not provided for by any law, and is the exclusive self-reliance of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine solely in the political interests. The so-called baby boxing show came to the Luhansk region not last September, but only yesterday did these so-called baby boxing come into existence. In addition, the same "municipal nanny" is predicted for only 25,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u28	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u29	Unfortunately, less than 361 children are born. That is why we demand that we stop and bring this chaotic activity of the government with the support of the family and the child to the interests of the family in which the child is raised. If you don't, we're going to do it very soon and we're going to protect every child in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u30	Thank you. Thus, the time spent on public speaking is exhausted. And I want to announce that we are continuing our consideration of the draft Law on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language (5670-d). And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princess Nikola Leonidovich to the rostrum. I want to remind you, colleagues, that we will continue the 1524 review. But the chairman of the committee asks for one minute before going to the law enforcement committee. I don't think anyone will mind. And I'm asking you to turn on the microphone for the Mikoliknezhicki speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear friends, yesterday one of the presidential candidates published a list of his advisors. A person who is offered counsellor and appointed counsel for humanitarian policy is directly opposed to Ukrainian as a national language, directly advocates a return to the best examples of what was in the Soviet Union. In view of this, I reiterate how important it is that we adopt this law. I would, however, urge all presidential candidates to testify to their position on humanitarian policy personally. Because if that doesn't happen, Ukrainians will never make peace and build a democratic Ukraine, but this could threaten another aggression and loss, I say quite frankly, from a Russian aggressor to another territory. This is a very dangerous situation. So from our wisdom, perseverance and principle, regardless of who candidates for the Presidents, both of these leaders have to say and testify that their humanitarian policy will support the development of Ukrainians, the Ukrainian state, as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u32	Please, 30 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u33	Thank you. So I ask you to focus once again, calmly, in principle, to work out this law, to understand that the non-admission of this law does not really just leave us in the situation that was, but rather throws us into the chaos of uncertainty and other oppositions that Ukraine does not exactly need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u34	Thank you. Mr. Mikolo, I am convinced that the Ukrainian Parliament will adopt the Language Act, and the Ukrainian people will never choose to take power over those people who want to put language, culture, religion, territory -- they want to put Ukraine as parentheses. I am sure that the Ukrainian people will never choose those who dream of returning to the Soviet Union. And I'm sure our choice will be right, and we'll adopt the law, and we'll continue our policy in the humanitarian field, as we have done in the last five years. So let's go to 1524. And I invite you to Shufrich's word. Please, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, well, the people of Ukraine said everything on March 31st. So, gentlemen of benevolence, make your conclusions. And we've discussed the amendments on many occasions. It's our amendments and they protect this law, and they're doing everything they can to meet both the norms of international law and the relevant traditions and, of course, the Constitution of Ukraine. I insist that paragraph 4 of the corresponding article: "Decision on the results of monitoring compliance with the national language standards, the application of the national language is in the form of an act." We're against any kind of act at all, and so we suggest we rule out this article. This is our principle position. Please put this question to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u36	Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u37	Dear colleague, the people of Ukraine said everything at first on "Student Maidan," then on another Maidan, and finally during the Dignity Revolution. And he'll say it over and over again to protect his culture, his language and his country. As for the item you are talking about, this simply allows the authorized person to file violations. Obviously, without such acts of wrongdoing, people who did not commit such violations may be persecuted on an entirely unreasonable basis. Therefore, the committee against this amendment does not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u38	I'll bet the vote on 1524. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[10:50:15]] For-19 The decision is not made. 1525. Shufrich or Nimichenko? Mr. Nestor, would you please point out that you will now be performing on these orders? Nestor Schuffrich. Okay. Don't make me point twice. Shufrich, 25 pages.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u39	Well, as far as the courts are concerned, we still have a choice, thank God, not always in Maidan, but sometimes in elections. And you got your grade on March 31st. By the way, not by anyone, but by the people of Ukraine. I want to correct yesterday's mistake, by the way. I apologize for my indiscretion, and I want to apologize to Victoria Alexander's Bird. I didn't know it was a V.A. Bird. - This is our female colleague. To be honest, I didn't know there was such a national MP. So I apologize for my indiscretion. And I promise that by the end of this call, I will always remember that we have a Ukrainian national MP, Viktoria Alexandrovna, a woman. And as for the amendment, please. This is about yesterday's discussion with Mrs. Siroid. And as for the amendment, we're against it at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u40	I ask the editors to speak on the subject and content of the amendment, not to clarify their relationship with other national MPs. I'm voting on amendment 1525, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[10:52:08]] For-19 The decision is not taken. 1526. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u41	I'm continuing the logic of our amendments. In general, we are opposed to making acts involving even administrative responsibility based on a language principle. This is the discredit of our citizens. This is a gross violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. Today was an attempt, I hope that tomorrow we will not witness the circus when it is necessary to adopt the law necessarily before the elections, and that President Poshenko's candidate, he, as yet acting President of Ukraine, would say that he had protected the language. This is about the same thing as protecting the wolf from lambs. I hope that common sense, responsibility, commitment to the Constitution will bring this law into a form that will be acceptable to all of Ukraine. Which is why we're fighting in the hall today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u42	Please identify yourself on this amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:53:41]] For the 18th. The correction is being rejected. Dear colleagues, I would like to address the authors of the amendments with a request to avoid agitation, contradiction. We have an election, but we're discussing another law right now -- it's the Language Act. Please, on the body of the amendments. The next is 1527, national deputy Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u43	Mrs. Irina, I take your observation, I promise not to talk about President Peter Prashenko again, but I can't help but talk about President Prashenko. And whatever I'm doing, I've got eyes on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Nestor, the more you talk about President Prashenko, the more you advertise to another candidate. Let's vote on amendment 1527. Please. This is compliance with the rules of the Rules, respected colleagues. And "nothing is this" and "what is this" is compliance with the rules of the Rules. Thank you. [[10:54:43]] For-16 Dear Mr. Schuffrick, if you speak in essence of the amendments, you will have more votes for your amendments because no one understands what you're talking about. 1528. Nestor Schuffrich, your repair. On the body, please, or I'll sound them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u45	Of course, of course. This amendment is now in conflict with the authors who represent the faction of Peter Dustenk. We do not agree with the text of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u46	Please put to the vote amendment 1528, which reads as follows: "Name or appointment of the person for whom control of the use of the national language has been exercised." It is suggested that this be included, dear colleagues Germany and Shufrich. Please identify yourself on the body of the amendment. I even support her, this amendment, Mr. Nestor, in order for everyone to feel that it is necessary to explain. [[10:55:46]] For-25 I ask you to speak again on the body of the amendments. Please, next amendment. This one's deflecting. And the next is 1529, and so is the author of Honorary Fellow Schuffritch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u47	Yeah, I get it. Of course, I take all your comments into account, but this is a typical situation for Ukrainian politics when they have already renounced their patron and do not even want to hear his name. Well, who was chosen, that's who we got. It's about the repairs. We are firmly opposed to having an appropriate act of existence and being able to be reflected in this law. This is certainly the persecution of our citizens according to the principle of language. Every Ukrainian citizen has the right to use his own language in all directions of activity, as reflected in article 10 of the Constitution, which guarantees this right. And there's nothing more sacred to us with you, for all of us who can't be talked about today than our Constitution. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u48	Thank you for explaining. Thank you so much for explaining the text of the amendments. You can speak only of the Danube Mijatovic, Mr Nestor. Comment, please, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u49	Dear colleague Schufrich, you propose to exclude the amendment that the act should state the reasons for the control of the use of the national language. That is, you insist that the person exercising control be able to come and exercise such control for no reason. The authors of the law against this, for only in specific cases where there are grounds for violations of the law on State language could control be exercised. So we did not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u50	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, we have heard very thorough, this time, an explanation of Mr. Shufrich’s correction and an explanation of the committee’s head. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:58:07]] Z-11. The amendment is not accepted. The next one is 1530. Please, Nestor Schuffritch's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u51	Well, you know, the cynicism of the authors of this law, which represents different factions, including the same faction (well, you know), it annoys me today, because when people find out what awaits them after the adoption of this law, I'm absolutely sure they will. When do you think? Right, Mrs. Irina, it's April 21st, and they're going to express their position to whoever you know about and, of course, to this law. But I want to tell you, not only are we with you, but the entire people of Ukraine know who is bullying him today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u52	Thank you, thank you. Colleagues, the amendment is as follows: "a description of the facts found during the control of the use of the national language;" And it's suggested that colleagues rule it out. I'm asking you to identify yourself for this amendment. [[10:59:36]] For the 17th. The amendment is rejected, 17 votes in favour. The next one is 1531. Please, Nestor Schufrich, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u53	I read the amendment: “Conservation or non-compliance with the requirements laid down in the Act for compulsory use of the State language;” Please tell me, honestly, a little bit and I've come to remind you of the Basic Law of Ukraine, the Constitution of Ukraine, its 10, 11, 22 articles, and first of all the 10 articles. Please tell us how to hate Ukrainians so that they want to be punished for wanting to speak and use their native language? People are good, but are we Ukrainians or not?Oh, my God! How can we do that? How can you, I'm sorry, not like them now that you're proposing different, inquisitorial methods of applying responsibility?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u54	You meant execution methods, execution methods. Right? Please be determined, Your Honor, by this amendment. [[11:01:12]] For the 18th. The correction is being rejected. What's that? 32rd is a German colleague, isn't it? Amendment 1532, it was counted, it's Nestor Schuffrich and Germany's amendment, but Pisarenko requires confirmation. Please, Valery Pisarenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u55	Thank you. Thank you. I want to say that my colleagues, both Nestor Schufrich and Mr. Germany, have worked very well with their amendments. But I also want to point out that there is a concept about the general existence of the institution of the Authorized State Language. I want to emphasize once again that this institution is not necessary, because it remains a penal institution. And including this amendment, it does solve the question of individual powers, but I don't think there should be any authority at all in the authorized, nor should there be an authorized one who will go to restaurants and check who speaks the language. So my proposal is not to have this chapter at all. Regrettably, I have to ask and ask for confirmation of the amendment of my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u56	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u57	Dude, what are you putting on confirmation? Shufrich and Nimchenko's colleagues asked to be expelled from the act of attraction, and we agreed that there should not be any in the act of withdrawal. You demand that an authorized punishment be given and that it indicate the type of attraction that it will place on the offender. Well, that's what you're asking, you're demanding that an authorized person directly punish people, even though we have a court case, there's an act. That is, you advocate that this law be as hard as possible, and sometimes unwarrantedly harsh, for we softened it after the first reading. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u58	Don't you insist on voting? Don't insist. You insist on voting. Please, I'm betting on confirmation of the amendment of 1532 People's Deputies Shufrich, Germany. I emphasize to the session room that if it fails now, fines will remain. Please. They'll be out of procedure, these fines. Please, I'm asking you to vote in favour of the amendment of Nestor Schuffreech and Germany. Support this amendment. [[11:03:43]] For-29 The law is balanced, I want to tell you. 1533. Please. It's an amendment to Germany, to Shufric, it was counted, and Papiev now insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to explain in general what Mr. Pisarenko meant when he made the amendment. Actually he said the very chapter that. which refers to the introduction of such a penal institution as an authorized institution, it has no right to exist. Therefore, his words should not be distorted. And I'd like to say the following. Yesterday in Strasbourg, under the chairmanship of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, all European parliamentarians made a clear and clear statement on the anti-constitutionality and anti-Europeanity of this law, and said all as one that this law does not have the right to exist, namely to impose punitive functions against their own people for wanting to speak their own language. In Bukovina they want to speak Romanian, in Zakarpata, in Hungarian, in other areas, in Russian. So it's a law that's simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, I want us to keep each other, and especially Ukrainian society, from being misled. With all due respect to Mr Papiev, I'd like to ask you, Mr Papiev, not to go juggling like that, because there is no question in Strasbourg during today's session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in the agenda. There's no question in the agenda as to the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't yell at me! There could be Brenzovich, and now the Ukrainian delegation is there. In the order of today's Strasbourg session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, there are no questions about the law that we are discussing. At the same time, dozens of Yves are held daily in the fields of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, dozens of which Brenzovich and other deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine can participate and present their position. You were talking about this yesterday, so on this key, please tell us what happened to the Yves, where Ukrainian and other politicians participated, but don't mislead the session hall, please, and especially Ukrainian voters, as if in Strasbourg the law of Ukraine was being considered. That's not true. I would like to stress once again that there is no question in the order of today's session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe regarding the bill on the functioning of the Ukrainian language. There is no debate on this, there is no resolution on this, no resolution on this subject was adopted yesterday or today, and tomorrow is not scheduled. Dear colleagues, please identify yourself. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I'd like to explain once again what's going on. The law we adopted in the first reading was actually quite hard, specific, and many supported such a rule of law. But in order to compromise this room with the representatives of all the factions involved in the vote, we softened it considerably. We've made it one that will help people who don't know Ukrainian enough, but they claim to be state officials if they're Russian, Hungarian, or Romanian, and they're taken from there. And that's why we took into account the amendments of Germany and Shufrich. and Germany. Comrade Pisarenko and colleague Papieuve are trying again and returning the amendments that will in fact oblige authorized punishment for the violations of those people to whom we are giving the transition phase, the opportunity to learn the language, and the punishment in general. That's what you're doing. I'm asking you very much, colleague Papiev, let's not put these amendments on record for this reason. We'll confirm them, they'll act, and you'll be the author of these tough amendments, just you. You won't explain that to your constituents. I'm telling you, even if it's out of your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u62	Thank you. Let's move on. Next amendment 13. Oh, I'm sorry, 1534 German and Shufrich national deputies. Please, Mr. Shufrich, give me your word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u63	We're basically against the fact that there's an act and there's every reason to be brought to justice. I believe that this law must be in line with the European Parliament resolution, which has acknowledged that knowledge of the State language is certainly a positive one for the State, but its knowledge must be stimulated. And today, we see a completely different picture: Today, we are forced to know the language of the State, and this is not a requirement of the Constitution. The Constitution guarantees the free use of any language in Ukraine. And, of course, it's confusing for us today. We are concerned that this law is primarily accepted by citizens of Ukraine of different nationalities so that it unites Ukraine rather than split it. And today we have a reaction from our colleagues from other countries, members of other parliaments, including, as Mrs. Irina reminded us, the Commissioner for Human Rights of the European Council, Dunimiatovic, who is outraged by this process that is now taking place in the session room. And, Mrs. Irina, taking this opportunity, I can't help but thank you for supporting the previous vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u64	Please identify yourself for this amendment. The only clarification, the principle: not the European Council, because the President of the European Council is Donald Tusk, and the Council of Europe is DunjaMijatovic. And by the end of the 2000s, I'm sure the whole room will be studying it. I'd like to make a statement, colleagues. [[11:10:31]] For the 18th. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 1535. It is counted, but the People’s MEP is, and Pisarenko is asked for a word. Please, Pisarenko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u65	I'm asking you, if we're going to use our names, then let's give the lines by their names. I want to tell the reporter to understand our logic, why we're putting these amendments on confirmation. We don't want to make the law more hard, we think it's already hard. You did what? You made a text of a law that was intimidated by society and said that you would plant it for what language a person spoke. Then they said: O! We will soften it. There is no need to talk about criminal responsibility. We went to meet you. It'll just be a fine. And there will be an authorized authority that will control and fine everyone." So where is he softened? We don't think this law is right either. We believe that any amendment that is in this law is unnecessary, just as this law does not need to be amended. We need to go to the second rereading and in the second rereading, look for a balance between the interests of the citizens of the country. And you've made it hard. This is our logic, why we say we have to vote for everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u66	Thank you. I accept your observation, Mr. Valerius. And that is with all due respect to you. Simple. So let's say we're talking about a conversation, let's say Please be sure. Mr. Valérie, do you request a vote? Please speak to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u67	Mr. Valérie, no one offered to plant the indignation of the Ukrainian language. You're proposing now, you're spreading these rumors, you're scaring people, you're eating people who speak Ukrainian, Russian, Hungarian, Romanian. You're doing it! This amendment merely states that an act cannot be accused because there is no decision in the act. If we fail this amendment again, in fact, we are making an act a final document on which an authorized person may impose a binding act. We took the clamps. As a result, you became involved in this act. So you want to humiliate people who have not yet learned Ukrainian and make them speak it even where they are not required and punish them if they do not. You, Comrade Pisarenko, do it yourself. Thank you. Please don't put this to a vote. And then we won't. You always have the right to speak up, to say your position on the whole law, not vote for it. This is certainly your absolute logical right. But why beat up democratics.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u68	Are you insisting? I'm going to ask if you're insisting on an amendment. Are you insisting? Well, there's no replica. This is a discussion of the amendment, Mr. Valeria, with all due respect. I'm asking my colleagues to identify themselves for amendment 1353, and it was counted by the committee. Please be supportive. [[11:13:54]] For-54 The next amendment is 1536. Please, Red Olga. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, Mikolo Leonidovich, me. This is an amendment from my committee colleague, the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of VictoriaSumar. She suggests in part seven of article 56 of chapter XIII that the word “twenty” be deleted. And by the way, there's a similar amendment from my colleague Condratuk. This is the next amendment. The point is this: Our logic was to avoid the double responsibility of TV channels for violating the requirements of language legislation on television. Because we were guided by the fact that there was already a Nacrad that was given these powers, and similar powers should not be given to another state authority. Instead, I see in the final edition that is left with article 20, which is "set by articles in 12-23." Please explain, at the same time, that the bill is taken into account, is this a technical mistake for the secretariat, or how is this understood? Is it possible that the numbering has shifted?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u70	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u71	How do you propose to consider this amendment? What's your offer? How do you propose to change the text to take this into account?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u72	Please, Mrs. Chervakovi's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u73	Mikola Leonidovich, I understand that on the first reading of this article, it was probably the 20th and then it became the 24th. Because you just figured out the number "24" and you deleted the number "20" and you didn't. I mean, I think it's probably just the numeration. I have a very simple question for you. Would it not be the double responsibility of TV channels for violating the requirements of language legislation? Will the proposal of my colleagues Sumar and Condratjuk be taken into account as to the fact that only one authorized state authority exercises control over the implementation of language legislation – this is the National Council for Television and Broadcasting, not two? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u74	Please put to the vote as proposed by Ms. Chervakov. What are you yelling at, Mrs. Chervakova? Please vote. [[11:16:36]] For-35 Thank you. 35 for. It remains in the same line that was taken into account by the committee. The next one is 1537. The word "panic."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u75	Dear Irina Volodymyrna, first of all, I didn't ask for a previous confirmation amendment. And that's why, as you put it, I shouted. Because there was no requirement in my words.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u76	Dear Ms. Chervakova, you don't require confirmation, dot. Please, Mr. Papiev, who will put this on the stand. I'd like someone else's brains included in this room, except for the chairman. Please, please, we're moving on. The next amendment is 1538, Mr. Shufrich. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u77	Thank you. Mrs. Irina, the offer is very clear. I'm asking you to put her to a vote on including brains. Mrs. Irina! I'm asking you to put up your, correct, very timely proposal to include brains in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u78	Let's put to the vote an amendment to the inclusion of the brains in this sessional room. Please, this is an amendment, I understand, from the version of Mr. Shufrich, number 1538. Vote. [[11:18:10]] For-21 I vote for including brains. Yet, only 21 people support the inclusion of brains in the session room. He's begging for factions, but I won't insist, I don't have to. Let's move on. 1539. Please, sir. Who's there? No one insists. Thank God. 1541, Mrs. Overlord. Here's your word. Thank you, Mrs. Gorgeous, for including your brains all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u79	1541. This is an amendment that refers to the order in which business subjects are motivated to use national language when serving consumers. This amendment is quite soft and quite gradual. At first, the point is that the subject of entrepreneurial activity is warned of such a violation when there is a breach of language legislation. If such a violation is repeated throughout the year, a fine is imposed. Please place this amendment on full validation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u80	Thank you. Please allow me to put this amendment to the vote in full. Please, by the way, maintain full scope, colleagues, this amendment. [[11:19:37]] For-31 The amendment remains with the committee. 1542. Please, the Prince's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u81	Thank you. So amendment 1542 refers to "The Final Provisions." This amendment proposes that the text replace the "National Commission of Public Language Standards" with the words "in accordance with the Ukrainian Act "On Ensuring the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language". It's part of the committee. Please take full account of it, as I suggested.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u82	Thank you for your clarification. Vote please, colleagues. [[11:20:24]] For-34 The amendment remains with the committee. The next one is 1543. Please, Princess, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u83	Thank you. The amendment proposes "The End of Positions", "Transient Positions" to merge into one "The End and Transitional Positions." I suggest we delete the word "transitional" and take into account the proposed wording.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u84	I'd like to make a statement. [[11:20:59]] For-32 He's staying in the committee's office. Please, 1544. Mrs. Overlord, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u85	Please support the amendment of the 1544 Lucenko deputies in full scope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u86	I'd like to make a statement. And then I'll give you my word, Mr. Nestor. I don't hear what you're saying. 1544. Mrs. Pobelik insists on voting in full. [[11:21:37]] For-32 The next amendment is 1545. Mr. Shufrich, your word. That's your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u87	Thank you. I don't understand, we're putting amendments on confirmation, they're not coming through, and you're saying they're part of the committee. How's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u88	Thank you for your clarification. So there were a few amendments that the committee took into account in an editorial way and demanded that they be put in full scope. We voted in full volume -- and it failed, it was a decision, so it stayed with the committee. And the previous amendment, which was taken into account by the committee, the Prince's voiced it in a different edition, we failed that vote, and that's why we left it in the paper where the committee accepted it. Is that understood? Did Mrs. Chervakov understand that, too? I am happy that I have united the hall in terms of what is going on in the discussion of the amendments. Please, Mr. Nestor Shufrich, you have one minute to correct 1545, which was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u89	I'm sorry, of course, that the coalition does not support the amendment of the authors, the Princess, including. Maybe with our brains involved, we don't have everything going on in this room. All right. This amendment is ours, and it suggests that the brain should be included: it should be delayed for six months if it is adopted. I want to believe that when all the electoral debates are held, we will go back to reviewing this law, and we will adopt a law that will establish all Ukrainian citizens who respect Ukrainian as a national language, but for historical reasons do not have it perfectly, but they are needed by society and have the constitutional right to give themselves all to the service of Ukraine. And we have to respect that and give people the opportunity to work for our nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u90	Thank you. Please vote on amendment 1545. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[11:23:57]] For the 17th. The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1551. Please, National Deputy Princess, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u91	Thank you. This amendment is taken into account in the committee’s drafting. Please consider it fully.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u92	Please identify yourself and consider it fully. So clearly, Nestor Ivanovich, right, is this not how the Rules are broken? No, you can't, we can't, it's not "What? Where? When?" One version, two and three. No, we're only voting in full right now. Please, in the author's office. One vote on the amendment. [[11:24:42]] For-32 The amendment remains with the committee. 1552. Please, Mrs. Golly, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u93	The honourable colleagues, in fact, who are now under consideration, confirm this thesis that this bill is designed for its progressive implementation, for its soft implementation, for the creation of opportunities for representatives of different groups and public workers to have enough time to speak and use national language. And please, please, I'm putting this amendment on full validation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u94	Thank you. I bet on the vote of amendment 1552 Mrs. Podowak, she demands that she be fully placed as an author. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:25:49]] For-31 The amendment remains with the committee. The next amendment is the People’s Deputy Pisarenko, 1553. Valery Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u95	Thank you. I want to say that my amendments are designed to remove bureaucracy from this law, to give us time to implement even the money that the drafters propose only in the spheres of public life, without touching private life and the life of private law. And I know my amendments didn't appeal to the drafters, but I'm telling you honestly, we don't agree with you, and we don't have to worry about that. You have a tougher point of view, and you feel that you need to impose and control the way a person talks. And I think if you don't understand how to do it, read the Constitution, it says how to do it, and it says that Ukrainian is a national language, but the state ensures the development and functioning of Russian and other languages of national minorities. Please also read the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u96	Please give the committee a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u97	My dear colleague, my point of view and the view of the committee members is that we should not impose anything on anyone or anything. So when you use such rhetoric, you frighten people with this imposition. As for this amendment, I want to say that you have a more severe point of view, because you are proposing that this amendment cancel the transition period that we have set for those people who for some reason do not yet speak the language. That is why we have rejected this amendment by honoring those who really want to learn the language that Shufric said should serve the Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u98	Thank you for your clarification. Please proceed with Valery Pisarenko's correction. [[11:27:56]] For-19 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is Nestor Schufrich. Please, Mr. Nestor, 1554.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u99	You know, dear colleagues, I can't help but mention the position of Commissioner of the Council of Europe with human rights in DuniMitovich, who just asked us to stop considering this law. I'm not going to say that right now we might be looking at more important issues, including improving the lives of our citizens, at least by lowering the price of gas, on which there is absolutely no reason to increase pensions, on which there is also money, including those that we intend to use to implement this law, by serving the authorized apparatus. Unfortunately, we don't hear each other. I hope that the people of Ukraine will not hear you, and they will express their position in 11 straight days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u100	Thank you. This was the amendment of the German and Shufrich National Deputies, 1554. I'm asking you to identify yourself. Please. [[11:29:31]] For the 15th. Next up, 1555. Please, the People's Deputy Papiev. Papieuve requires a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look, this law is totally-absolutely interfering with the spheres of other laws of Ukraine, and it actually introduces double interpretations, which makes this law absolutely one that confuses both in the schedule of legal proceedings there and in the plan of legal protection work, let alone education, science and other other queens of Ukrainian life. Dear colleagues, listen again. If you want to check and make sure that this law is anti-national, anti-constitutional, please contact the Venice Commission. Turn around, draw a conclusion, but you will see that the stone on the stone will not be left of this law, and you will be told clearly and clearly that you are completely non-European people and approach you. I don't want to remind you of yesterday's words, yes, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u102	Please put on. Aah! The head of the committee requires words. Please, Miss Princess, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleague Papiev, see, this amendment delays the introduction of the entry into force of the entry into force of the landmark act according to the standard of the national language. If we cancel it, it will enter directly on the day that the law takes effect. And that's how she introduces the deferral, as I explained earlier. So I'll have another offer. In this amendment, the committee proposed that the standards of legal terminology. I propose to replace the word "legal" and put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u104	Mr. Papiev, do you insist that you be satisfied? You insist. Please. We're moving according to the Rules. The National MP insists, and I have to put it on as chairman. [[B in m in s a l in]] "Leavin'" change to "legal." Please vote. [[11:32:11]] For-31 The next amendment is 1556. Please, Mrs. Golly, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u105	Please place this amendment on full validation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u106	Please, colleagues, support this amendment fully. Please. [[11:32:39]] For-35 The amendment remains with the committee. 1557. Please, National MP Papiev, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that, during the preparation of this law and the introduction to the Supreme Council for first reading, for second reading, Ukraine's obligations regarding the Association Agreement with the European Union have been gravely violated. This law has a direct bearing on human rights, and you have had enough time to address the Commission for Democracy because of the right to draw the conclusion of this commission on a law that today, in a clear and clear statement that this law violates not only the Constitution of Ukraine, but in general violates the European approach to the functioning of regional languages, like national minorities, that this law is not the law for the development of Ukrainian language, it is the law that you want to prohibit Ukrainians from speaking their native Russian language, their native Romanian language, their native Hungarian language, their native Crimean Tatar language. They won't forgive you, and you'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u108	Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u109	Thank you. And you'll see an evaluation of this law in 11 days. I want to remind you once again of the results of the voting in the Chernobyl area in Bukovin. And I'm grateful to the beekeepers who showed "get" in the first round. Hopefully, in the second round, it'll be a little bit brighter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u110	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u111	Thank you. Where did this amendment come from? You know, we passed Article 7 of the Education Act, in another law, in the Education Act, and in accordance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, we moved this law into this law for 2023. This was also the implementation of the recommendations of the Venice Commission. So I ask you to leave it the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u112	Please identify yourself on this amendment. [[11:35:00]] For-23 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 1558. Next amendment. Seven just got a call. We voted her. 15th Now. 59. And who will be the people’s deputies? There are no wanters. Next amendment. Taras Kremen, are you insisting? No, it's not. Okay. Thank you. Vasjunik. National Deputy Vasjunik, 1560. Don't insist. He doesn't insist. 1564. Please, National Deputies of Germany, Shufrich. The word of Shufrich, a national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are against this law in principle: we turn around here, we remember here, we move it here. The law must be one that satisfies all the needs of society and immediately all its articles enter into force. For that reason, however, it should exclude standards that discredit our citizens. And then it will not be necessary to pass on the dates for the introduction of individual articles. We suggest that we approach this law more responsibly. And once again, I emphasize, making it one that unites rather than creates conflict in society. We see how the Chernobyl area, the Zakarpatsk region, reacted. This is another hint and a sentence of authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u114	May I have the floor to the committee head?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleague Nestoré, this item just sets a transitional period for the introduction of new rules for external independent evaluation. We propose to postpone external independent evaluations in Ukrainian by 2030. You insist that you immediately enter it in English at this point. That's right. Well, let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u116	Please identify yourself for this amendment by a colleague of German and Shufrich, 1564. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:37:45]] For two. This must be Germany and Shufrich for this amendment. But there weren't many. Let's move on. 1566. Please, National Deputy Princess, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u117	Thank you. It's taken into account, but I suggest it be taken into account without saying "what becomes effective one year from the day that this law becomes effective." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u118	Please give us a tone to the lady's position. He's offering to set it up. I'm putting it in the editor's office as proposed by Mr. Knieżick. No, you'll be presiding at the meeting - putting it as you think it is for the Rules. I heard a specific offer from the Virgin. [[11:38:28]] For-25 The amendment stays with the committee. The next one is 1567. Please, this is the amendment of the National Deputies of Mr. German and Mr. Shufrich. The word is given to Mr. Shufrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u119	To be honest, "the use of state language in science that takes effect six months from the day that this law becomes effective," well, absurdity is complete. The science works are written for us -- don't be afraid of that Russian language -- in many other languages. Is it true that an outstanding Ukrainian scientist who does not speak English but who has made the discovery needed by our society or has done scientific work that has a positive impact on our country’s development that should be blocked only because it is not in Ukrainian? That's absurd and irresponsible. Please delete the corresponding article.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u120	I'd like you to identify yourself as respectable.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u121	Excuse me, may I?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u122	Oh, I'm sorry. The chairman of the committee requires a word. Please. It's a lady's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u123	Dear colleague, we have proposed that the transitional period for the introduction of updated rules for the application of Ukrainian language in science should enter into force on this part within a year, 12 months. Your suggestion was that he would enter into force immediately. That's why the committee rejected it, defending the right that we introduced here after many consultations and with the Ministry of Education, and with colleagues in the hall, to establish large transitional periods for many articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u124	Thank you. Please be determined by amendment 1567. [[11:40:39]] For the four of us. The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1568. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u125	Thank you. This amendment is taken into account in the committee’s drafting. Please take it into account as proposed by the author, or me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u126	I would like to ask you in full detail for the author's writing, and this is exactly what the author insists on. [[11:41:12]] For-29 The amendment remains with the committee. The next one is 1569. This is the amendment of colleagues Vasile Nietzschenk and Nestor Schufrich. Please, the word of Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to emphasize the logic of our amendments. We don't mind that in this case the use of national language in the field of culture is passed on to some term. We don't even want these rules to be. Therefore, we now propose that this law be regulated in accordance with article 10 of the Constitution, where there are no such requirements. Moreover, the rights to use other languages, including science and culture, are guaranteed. That's exactly why we're fighting. And we want a law that went into effect without any delay, but that he respects the rights of all citizens who respect Ukrainian as a national language, but who have the guaranteed right to use their own language. And we fight for their right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u128	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u129	You know what the case is. Kazuistics is what we're talking about in museums, for example, tablets should be in Ukrainian. No one forbids having plates in Russian, English, French, Romanian, and any other, including. And we set up a transition period for that. And you're also opposed to the standard that Ukrainian language is anywhere in the world and against the transition period. So this is an illogical question for us. Thus, the amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u130	Please be determined by amendment 1569. [[11:43:18]] For-13. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 1572, the People's Deputy. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u131	Thank you. It's part of the committee. Please take full account.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u132	Please vote. [[11:43:48]] For-21 The amendment remains in the committee’s agenda, only 21 votes in favour of it in full. The next amendment is 1577, National Deputies Vasily Niemchenka, Nestor Schufrich. Nestor Schuffrich's word, please. Mr. Nestor!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u133	I want to testify to our logic in this room again. During the consideration of these articles, the co-author of this amendment was Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko, and I was absolutely against these standards being applied. If we were against these articles during our consideration, we would certainly be against any delay. We do not want these novices to be in this law at all, for these novices are separating people, creating conflicts in the future, and, rather, resisting God. We want this law to be one that unites society. Unfortunately, today’s edition poses another threat to disunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u134	15 seconds to complete. Are you done? Thank you so much for your time. Please give me a minute to comment on the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u135	Dear colleague, look, this is an article that regulates the introduction of law on television and radio. We have a separation period of two years. You're direct. If you were against other articles on the introduction of Ukrainian on television and radio, I understand that's in your logic. But this amendment, it actually suggests canceling this deferral period. We are discussing this article of the law with representatives of various factions and groups, and with a professional committee on freedom of speech and media. There are different points of view, but I don't see any reason to cancel the period of separation that is in this law. Because, as I said before, you're trying to make it harder to do the same. I understand your position, but she's a little inconsistent here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u136	Please identify yourself after the amendment of 1577 German and Shufric national deputies. [[11:46:31]] For the 15th. The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1579. Please, the People's Deputy calls for a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u137	Thank you. We just had a debate. This is what I was talking about: the time when this article was introduced, what was involved in printed media. And we promised to take the committee's amendment into account: Sumar, Sverk, Berezenko. So I suggest we put it in full measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u138	I'd like to make a statement. It was included in the committee’s editorial work, and a colleague demands that it be made fully available. We're being determined now. [[11:47:14]] For the 10th. The amendment remains in the edit. We can't have two votes. Show me this rule of the Rules, we've just voted. And I'm telling you that we have one amendment, one vote, I've read the Rules, my friends, every morning I read the Rules, the Tablebook. Thank you. The next one is 1580. The prince's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u139	Thank you, thank you. Please place it in full volume. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u140	Please place the author’s full scope as requested in the author’s paper. The author requires a full formulation. [[11:48:16]] For-26 The next amendment is 1581, honorary colleagues Vasile Niemchenk and Nestor Schufrich. A word, please, Nestor Schuffrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u141	Chief Chairman, we have to say that there is a violation of the Rules. Because we have the right to put an amendment to the vote in any form, and regardless of whether the author puts it in a different edition, the committee's editor has the right to be put to the vote for confirmation. You don't do that. And so we're going to distort the text of the law. With regard to our proposal to exclude the article, we discussed in fact the text of this law the corresponding novel. We were against her in principle, so against any delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u142	Thank you for explaining your correction. I'm asking you to identify yourself for amendment 1581. [[11:49:43]] For -6 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 1582. Please, the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u143	Please put it to the full extent that this amendment also applies to the suspension of the entry into force of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u144	I'd like to make a statement. [[11:50:14]] For-28 The next amendment is 1583, a colleague of Vasily Germany and Nestor Schufrich. Nestor Schuffrich's word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u145	You see, as soon as we turned your attention to breaking the Rules, we stopped being respectful, which is what happens in life.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u146	You're great. Please, your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. I'll keep making sense. Explain the logic of our amendments. In principle, we are against these articles. In principle, it is definitely against. And if we're against the essence of these articles, we're definitely against any delay in these articles. We think it's a rude intervention in this case, it's already a business activity, it's limiting the ability of our entrepreneurs to get profits and pay taxes. Few things after this law has been passed, God forbid, if it is accepted, there will be a new burden on our taxpayers, and there will be limited opportunities to work, to provide jobs. And unfortunately, this law is still making it easier for our citizens to leave abroad, and it will be on the conscience of the authors and those who will vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u148	Please identify yourself on this amendment. [[11:51:46]] For -6 Amendment 1583 rejects. The next one is 1584. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u149	Look, it says here that this amendment is counted. Actually, that's not true. Because I offered to make a three-year extension in this amendment to apply the national language in the user interfaces of computer programs and websites. Instead, the committee offered to do so. instead of 12 months put 18. So I'm asking you to take full account of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u150	Please be sure. [[11:52:34]] For-23 The next amendment is 1585, German and Shufric national deputies. Many amendments were taken into account by the committee, but there are some that are not included. This is just one of the unaccounted for amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u151	Sadly, many of our amendments have not been taken into account. If this had happened, this law would have been absolutely in line with the Constitution of Ukraine, the desire of our citizens who use other than the Ukrainian language of their own, but unfortunately, the political situation has prevailed so far. I hope that the responsibility may return to this room after April 21st or after the election of a new parliament in which I will not see many of my colleagues with great sadness. Let's see, let's see, but let's think about these meetings as what they are. as a lost opportunity to unite our society. And speaking essentially against this novice during the consideration of it in the preceding part. In the preceding parts of the law, we're also in the End Positions against any postponance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u152	Thank you for your clarification. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:54:17]] For-7. The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1586. This is the amendment of the German National Deputies, Schufrich. Please, Mr. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u153	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor. It's the same logic. At the time of consideration of the bill, a discussion had actually taken place. Sadly, we were not supported. Quite right, Madam Chairman, not all of our amendments are supported in the hall, and we have actually lost the possibility to regulate this law in accordance with the 10th article of the Constitution. It's very, very sad. It was a chance. And German Vasil Ivanovich and I gave this opportunity to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to correct our mistake, the authors' error. And Mikhailo Papiev is certainly very concerned and is joining the process of responsibility of this law of the Constitution of Ukraine, as are the rest of the colleagues who are responsible for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u154	Thank you for clearing up your concerns, including those of others. It's very important. And please, now the chairman of the committee also wants to express his concern about this amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u155	Dear colleague, the law states that the transitional period for the use of national language in the field of consumer services is 18 months from the date of entry into force. Instead, colleagues Niemchenko and Shufrich demanded that this law be introduced immediately in the field of consumer services. Because of this committee, she was not supported. And Mr. Shufrich, I want to assure you that no one has changed their attitude to you in the last many years, as our voters have to do with you. I would like to point out that even more of your amendments would be taken into account, which would your colleagues in the Opposition Block would not be particularly aware of these amendments and would not be able to take them into account. You've seen it well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u156	Thank you. Please identify yourself on this amendment. And you know, it's just that the heart is happy with the high political culture that's just going on and on in today's room. Please, I'm asking you to vote, and this is a good example when colleagues take different ideological positions, but they call each other "honorable." "Honorable" is such a beautiful Ukrainian word. [[11:56:55]] Z-11. We're moving on. This amendment is rejected. The following amendment, as well as the German and Shufrich, was considered by the committee. You see, this indicates that the committee is not involved, which is very pleasant and very welcome. And the 1590 amendment was not counted. That too. [[B in m in s a l in]] But the esteemed colleague Papiev, who is similarly concerned about this amendment, 1587, asks for the floor, although it has been counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u157	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, respected citizens of Ukraine, who are watching the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear colleagues, this is a very important law, so our efforts to amend and discuss every amendment are made in order to bring the anti-nationality of this law to the people, to our constituents, to the citizens of Ukraine. To inform people that it is a penal law, penal orders are introduced, where sick people will run and demand fines, criminal liability, and many other nonconcerning things that are incompatible with Ukraine’s European choice. This law does not have the right to exist, and once again I stress that, none of the articles in this law can be adopted as well as this law. Before this law is signed, because everything is equally voted in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because the people in agony now have to be sent to the Venice Commission to reach their conclusion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u158	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u159	Dear colleague, you know, we have people running and screaming about an aggressor country who make decisions that help this aggressor country. So there are people who are yelling that there are criminal responsibilities and persecutions in this law that are not here, and they are demanding the introduction of criminal responsibility, persecution, shortcomings of various transitional periods, because the law is extremely liberal, adopted by compromise between conversations with representatives of different regions, representatives of national minorities, and various factions of the Supreme Council. And so this amendment, too, introduces a transitional period for adaptation to this law in the area of design documentation, so please leave it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u160	Please. Mr. Papiev, do you insist on voting? I'm asking you to identify yourself for this amendment. I'll remind you that the committee counted it, and this is the case where I ask you to support the amendment of Shufrich and Germany, colleagues, and I vote in favour. [[11:59:42]] For-26 The amendment is not counted. My colleagues, according to the Staff Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I announce a recess for exactly 30 minutes. And after the break, we'll be back with you to consider the amendments to the law, the bill to ensure the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language. I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, that you and I have stopped at Amendment 1537. 38. Yeah, and we're starting our work with amendment 1538. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now. I'm sorry, guys. Yes, I've already closed ours with you. You and I have stopped at Amendment 1587. And you and I are starting work on the 1590 amendment, because it's also an amendment by a colleague of German and Shufrich, which is where we start our work after the break. I'll call it a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to return to the session room, we'll continue our work. And we're going back to looking at the amendments to the bill on the functioning of Ukrainian as a national language. Please return to the session room. Thank you for the fact that the head of the Pan-Princess Committee on Cultural and Spiritual Affairs has already taken his place in the rostrum, where he will report the amendments these last days. And I want to remind all my colleagues that before the break, you and I stopped at amendment 1590. That's where we start our work. This is the amendment of the German and Shufrich National Deputies. And now Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich is ready to tell us the essence of this amendment. Please, Mr. Nestor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u162	I remember ours. Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, tears, tears in my eyes when I see how many colleagues are in the hall, how they care about Ukrainian language and its protection. Madam Chairman, please point me in your selfie, please. Why don't you tell me I wasn't in the hall? And no, I'm sorry, this will be reflected in the transcript. Because that's exactly where I have to be reflected, at least. Well, I remember arguing with you about this application. The standards of this bill in the advertising field, we were definitely against these novels. And certainly we're against any delay. By the way, 32 national deputies are now present in the hall. 32! Thus everyone is interested in the English language. Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah! What they're talking about, what they're talking about. So given that we have our position in applying the novelty of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u163	Thank you. You know, dear colleague, Nestor Schuffritch, I join your tears regarding the number of people present in the hall, but I don't share your tears regarding the substance of your amendment. Because there's not one word about selfie, there's no word about y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y and all the other things that were said in your explanation, there's another meaning. You propose to exclude the preceding article 32 of the law, which takes effect six months from the date of entry into force of this law. I'm asking you to identify yourself for amendment 1590. Fellows, go back to the session room, because Shufrich is crying that we are so few. Tears in front of your eyes. Nestor Ivanovich. [[12:36:32]] For -6 Six for. Stop crying, come back quietly to the session room. Please make the following amendment: Germany, the People’s Deputy, and Shufrich. And you have the word, Nestor Ivanovich, 1591.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u164	I report to the people of Ukraine, we are now 33, 34 (one left) – again 33 national deputies present in the hall. That's how we work. I'm asking myself questions right now. Tell us why you should adopt a law that has been cut off for a year, even by 2030 there was an attempt to eliminate one standard. Why not adopt a law that satisfies society? We can immediately accept that he will enter into force and unite society. And I certainly insist today that on matters where we have not been able to arrange during the consideration of these novels, in fact, that there should be no wear-offs, but that the articles relating to the postponement have been cancelled. We are against the articles themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u165	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u166	Dear colleague Shufrich, you are well aware that a large part of the population of Ukraine has suffered over the centuries from the Russianization and banning of Ukrainian language. They give their children to Ukrainian schools in Odeschen, Lugansk, Donetsk, and they want their children to read Ukrainian books and watch Ukrainian television. Yes, they don't yet know the language, so the law gives them time to master it, because they want to do so, it creates these possibilities. And that's why there's these delays. Because no one demands tomorrow in the situation that we see that there is someone else who wants to continue this ruse to call for some confrontation, the law has a transitional period that you are trying to cancel in this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u167	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for amendment 1591. [[12:38:51]] For -8 Next amendment. This one's deflecting. Princess, first raised Mr. Dudenkov's hand, and I have to take that into account. 1592. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Dolženko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u168	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'd like to make a point to support this proposal of the White People's Deputies for the introduction of section seven, paragraph 1, of the Final Position, in order to increase the time to which the requirements of this Ukrainian law, namely, relate to the area of transport, will be valid. The table reads "involved in committee". But this is not actually part of the paper, but this is actually a short one, because at the first reading of the validity of article 32 in terms of language in the field of transport in six months, the committee proposes in one year. The MP asked for two years as a minimum. So you're talking about the area of education, but unfortunately, this law affects a lot of areas, especially the area of service. In general, I am opposed to having someone speak the national language in the field of service, since the national language is the language of public institutions. If it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u169	I see. 15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u170	If this is not the area of public services, then there should already be liberalisation and free use of any language that is understood by both the service provider and the recipient. So please support the proposal 1592.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u171	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u172	Dear colleague, I agree with you on the first point of your proposal to increase the transition period. I also think it should be increased. As for the second point, I disagree, because we have people in Ukraine who speak, for example, Ukrainian and, there, English and other languages do not speak. The law just says that if there's a mutual agreement, you can speak any language. But if someone in Ukraine speaks Ukrainian, he simply asks for answers in English. But if he speaks Russian, Romanian, English, and shopkeeper, or someone in the field of service, or transport, please, they can communicate in that language, and no one limits them. So I'm going to hold back from this point, supporting essentially the first part of the protein repair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u173	Thank you. I ask you to vote in full on this amendment. [[12:41:39]] For the 10th. Let's move on. The next amendment is 1593, Deputys Vasily Niemchenka and Nestor Schufrich. Please give me your word, Mr. Nestor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u174	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, imagine the situation. A citizen of Ukraine, but a Romanian or a Hungarian national, now I'm not even talking about a Russian, there's a simpler situation, meets a conductor or a driver who speaks exclusively Ukrainian. Tell me, please, these people are 70 years old or older, and on one day they're from the Kingdom of Romania or the Kingdom of Hungary, they're in the Soviet Union. Well, it happened that at the time they didn't pay much attention to learning other languages -- everyone was happy. They don't know Ukrainian or Russian anymore, they only know their own. So they can't go anywhere? I object to the fact that these articles are essentially part of the law. And the transfer, the deferral, it's already, you know, it's said to be smeared. Let's be responsible for these standards, it's completely absurd to demand this in transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u175	Please identify yourself for this amendment. [[12:43:15.]] For-9 The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1594. Please, National Deputy Sevrukov, you raised your hand first, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u176	Thank you very much. I want to go back a little bit to the rights of 1588, 1589, and it was my colleagues who were on the committee. Mikolo Leonidovich, look, these adjustments relate to the fact that we've been postponing the language for six months, even though you and I know that we've had a year of advertising since the "Kivalova Koleschenka Act" in February of last year is undefined. So my proposal, of course, is that the language of advertising right after the adoption of the law is Ukrainian, we just go back to the constant standards to which the market is used and, you know, everyone uses the Ukrainian language calmly in advertising. And maybe if there were any other committee meetings before the final version, I would ask you to consider my position and the committee that the language of advertising should be Ukrainian at the time of the introduction of the law, you don't have to wait for anything, we already lived in this paradigm. And as for the amendment that I'm speaking on, I'd like to ask you to put it on full confirmation to keep it in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u177	Thank you. At the request of the People’s Deputy Sevrukov, I am in turn putting amendments to 1594 and 1595 to the vote in full. Please, 1594. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:44:47]] For-26 And the next one is 1595. Please be absolutely clear. Sounded it? So that's not how I heard it, then we'll give you our word. [[12:45:04]] For-16 Thank you. The next amendment is 1596, German and Shufric national deputies. I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, there was Mr. Sevrukov's appeal to the head of the committee on language in advertising. I'm sorry, I give my word now to my colleague Knieżicki to answer your questions, and then you and I will begin with Amendment 1596 of Germany and Shufric.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u178	Thank you. My dear colleague, I fully support your position, it was a decision to postpone this, but we are really going to hold a meeting where we can agree on all the rights, the proposals of the deputies, including your previous rights, and we will discuss this issue, and I will personally support your position on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u179	Thank you. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Aah! I'm sorry, colleagues. Amendment 1596. National deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u180	Thank you. The singer of my amendment is also the national deputy of Germany. Please respect German Vasil Ivanovich, the colonel general, head of the past, head of the Supreme Court Military College, judge of the Constitutional Court, deputy head of the Constitutional Court. Such a respectable man works with you and us, with which I greet all of us. With regard to the repair. We argued during the consideration of this amendment in fact, but I had, I would have softened my position a little if it were party - related. By the way, as far as party rotation is concerned, it must certainly be in the Ukrainian language, but public associations that can be narrowly specialised exclusively on some issue of national smaller ones and require them to do so! –and keep the relevant documentation in Ukrainian whenever possible to get a translation at any time, I think it's unnecessary essentially. I'm against essentially and against any other insinuation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u181	Please vote. [[12:47:39]] For the 10th. The decision is not made. We're continuing our work. I just want to contact my fellow MPs, and so do those who are watching the plenary. We have amendments where there are many deputies, there may be 10, there may be 25 authors of the same amendment, so the chairman at the meeting only announces the name of the deputy who is given the word for the amendment. In the meantime, amendment number 1597. People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, it's actually written that this amendment is counted, but it's taken into account editorially. So I'm asking her to bet on confirmation in exactly the way that she was formulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u183	Please vote. [[12:48:46]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number. We have already voted on amendment 1597, and two votes on one amendment are not taking place. Amendment 1598. The word is used to make an amendment to the national deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, the logic of our amendments is unalterable, we insisted when we considered the relevant law, when we considered it essentially, our position was clear, principle, we insisted that the rules of this law should be consistent not only with article 10 of the Constitution, but not only with its first part, that the Ukrainian language is a national language and that it should not be questioned, but rather with the second part of article 10, which guarantees the right to use Russian and minority languages in all spheres of activity. Regrettably, the second part of article 10, to my firm conviction, was ignored, so we made these amendments. And I'm asking for this amendment to be submitted for confirmation. And I want to tell the citizens of Ukraine that we now have a little less than 40 national deputies present in this room, so we're fighting for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u185	Please vote. [[12:50:33]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Amendment 1599. Don't insist. 1600 amendment, People's Chamberlain Pisarenko. Don't insist. Amendment 1601. Please, People's Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u186	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! We're looking at this bill for a very long time. Unfortunately, this bill, or perhaps fortunately, is actually a hostage to the political process of the current President. The essence of the amendment is to remove some of the provisions of the law, such as article 7, paragraph 1, concerning their effectiveness as of January 1, 2020. I think the term is insignificant, and we need a longer term to, inter alia, foresee the possibility of acquiring the validity of certain provisions of the law that apply mainly to education, to school, to secondary school on the need to apply the provisions of this law. I therefore propose that this proposal be put to the vote. 1601.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u187	Please vote for the people's deputies. [[12:52:18]] For -8 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1602. People's deputies don't insist. 1603. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u188	It's very difficult to catch up with you, Madam Chairman. It seems like you're deliberately trying not to discuss every piece of this bill. I'm saying, if you're on the case, please go to the end. Again, this provision refers to the suspension of certain provisions of this law regarding their taking effect. Although I would like to point out that the above terms are minor because Ukraine had a fairly long term in the sphere and in the atmosphere of such linguistic liberalisation. But because this authority has nothing to show for it, they want to. At least they'll adopt this language law. So once again, I stress that this proposal suggests not too long a term, not too necessary, which is really necessary for our country because of the rigidity of this law, because of the extension of the requirements of this law not only to the sphere of public life, as required by the Constitution, but also to all spheres of social life, including the scope of service, transport.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u189	Please vote. [[12:53:54]] For-9 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1604. The next amendment is the number one thousand six hundred. What? Please, National Deputy Dolzhenkok, what's the amendment number?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u190	1604, you called it. With regard to regulation 1604, the author of the law again fits in to the requirements of this law, which apply to the Ukrainian Law on the subject. in part of the Ukrainian Presidential Elections Act, so they can take effect on January 1st, 20th. Why not the 21st? Why not from the moment this law became effective at all? I don't understand how differentiated the right-wing authors, the drafters, who have registered this bill? At what point should the law become effective in the field of health care, in the field of, there, transport, in the field of business, in the field of public organizations, political parties? Why is this differentiation related to what it is? The law is very strict, I say again. This law should not be distributed into the sphere of personal life; it should not be distributed into the scope of service; it should be solely in the sphere of government and the functioning of local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u191	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u192	Thank you. Well, first of all, when we discussed and worked on this law, obviously we've been faced with different situations of using Ukrainian in different areas. There are areas where Ukrainian language is applied without any problems, where it can actually work from the time of its adoption. There are areas where a transitional period was needed. And this transition period is in different areas. For example, when we're talking about changes in hardware software, it's one term to produce this equipment and change software. When we're talking about television and radio talk, that's another period that it takes to show the programs that have already been produced. And so in every sphere. We had consultations about this. For example, in the media, it is 30 months. For television, it's two years, but some people are offering to do more. Instead, the language of external independent evaluation, which has been made up of the English language since 2025, because they've served the deadline for the entry into force of article 7 of the Education Act, the children will finish school later on, and that will be later. So in every situation, the situation is different, and the terms are different.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u193	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:56:42]] For-9 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1606. Please, National Deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, a series of articles of this law, the deadline for their introduction is two years. In many of these articles, we had a very serious discussion and controversy. Unfortunately, they stayed in the absolute majority in the editorial board or in the committee. What we strongly disagree with. Why? Because the vast majority of these articles, in our view, do not correspond to the 10th article of the Constitution, 22 articles of the Constitution, narrows down the rights of our citizens with regard to the rights they have today. And certainly we are opposed to having these articles in principle present in this law. And so we are against any other manipulation of these articles. We believe that this law needs to be drafted, prepared for re-second or third reading, and that it fully meets the Constitution and the requirements.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u195	Please vote. [[12:58:13]] For -6 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 107. Please, the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u196	Thank you. This was taken into account by the committee. I urge her to accept it without the last paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u197	Please vote. [[12:58:46]] For the 15th. The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1608. Please, People's Deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] A representative of the committee. This is an amendment to the committee. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, I would like to comment on the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u199	Please. Dear colleagues, I asked you to turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Podowak. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, you have the right to discuss this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u200	First Deputy Director of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, by the author, the initiator of this bill. Dear colleagues, this amendment to the committee has been taken into account, but I'm putting it on the stand, please, without the last paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u201	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the content of this proposal. And the content of this proposal to the committee, which is actually an accomplice to the crime that is currently taking place, that they want to go through. in these walls by adopting this law, selective treatment of languages of national minorities. Here's the last paragraph: "Those who belong to the national minorities of Ukraine whose languages are the official languages of the European Union have begun to obtain general and secondary education by September 1st. have the right to continue such education until September 1, 2023." And I have a question: and people who communicate in national languages with others who are not the official languages of the European Union. Do you not see that we have a predominantly Russian - speaking society? We have a Ukrainian society that speaks Ukrainian. But the vast majority of you, the honourable national deputies, speak Russian in the watchtowers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u203	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u204	My dear colleague, in fact, the content of this amendment is that people who are currently in office for which a certificate is required should not pass these examinations at the time of adoption of this law. That's what he's talking about. Huh? Well, the third part of the MP, as she suggested without this part, she couldn't find support in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u205	Yes, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u206	We've already voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u207	We didn't vote. With Mrs. Podowak's suggestions. [[13:02:01]] For 20 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1609. Please, the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u208	This amendment has been taken into account, but I ask that you accept the amendment not fully, but editorially, by deleting the words "for the public service." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u209	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:02:31]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, you know, I'm an interesting observer of the phenomenon here. It turns out that even under these circumstances, such presence in the hall, there is a non-personal vote. If you don't know, you can see it on the chairman's screen. I urge you, I call on you to stop the non-personal voting at least under these circumstances, do not embarrass yourself and your colleagues for whom you are pressing the buttons. Thank you. Next. The next amendment is number 1610. Don't insist. 1613. There's no insistence on a national MP. 1615. National deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u210	We propose an appropriate editorial, namely, "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for three months to develop and submit proposals for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to bring Ukraine's legislative acts into line with this law." This is certainly our formal requirement, this is our respect for the process of law-making, because any law that is passed, other laws have to comply with the last decision. But I would very much like this law to be considered after the presidential election, so that we can go back to it and adopt a law that unites and unites society, not bickering with people within the country, and with our neighbors there will be tremendous tension after the adoption of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u211	Not yet. Yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u212	The committee takes you into account on an editorial basis. We have not even done three months, but six months, according to which we are to organize the conduct of acts by all central executive authorities in accordance with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u213	Please vote. We're voting your comment and amendment 1615, which you just sounded. [[13:05:22]] For the five of us. Amendment 1616. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, this is one of the reasons why we are now adopting this law in this form, which is proposed by the committee, not on time. This amendment applies to the obligation, within one month, to provide for the financing of additional structures, such as the National Commission of Ukrainian Language Standards and the National Language Commissioner, for the provision of funds in the national budget that was adopted for this year. And I have a question for the chairman, I don't know, for committee representatives. And at what cost will you finance these additionally created structures? By reducing the monetization of subsidies allocated for housing services? On account of children who need to be treated, disabled, and veterans of work? Do you have a lot of money? Do you already have a pro-profit state budget? In what way will these expenses be realized? Are you all right in the country's economy? You're so beautiful, you've ruined everything that's possible in this country, and you still want to create extra funding? That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u215	Thank you. I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u216	But no, I think that's what we have to do at the expense of the salaries of those people's deputies who are taking a firm stand against Ukrainian independence, Ukrainian statehood, who are hailing Russian aggression. We have so much, I think, that's enough money just to do that. If you know the names, please call them. If. I think that these funds are quite enough to provide funding for this article, on which, by the way, my colleague Germanko was very insistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u217	Thank you. Please vote. Please stop voting, please. Did you insist on voting? He insists on voting. Please vote. [[13:07:34]] Z-11. The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1617. Please, National Deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u218	Thank you. The following revisions will apply to the formation of the National Commission of English standards. Respectable citizens of Ukraine are national deputies! Please tell me, there's nothing to spend. Is everyone okay? We cut subsidies this year, compared to the past, by 19 billion dollars. This raises the price of gas if, God forbid, this power stays 24 percent, according to 15 percent. True, it is said that 17 copies were taken along the way. It's such a smile over people. We think that now Ukraine as a state is not in a position to finance and create another central authority and spend tens or hundreds of millions of dollars on it. We are definitely against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u219	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:09:10]] For the five of us. The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1618. Don't insist. 1619. Don't insist. 1620. Don't insist. 1621. Don't insist. 1622. National deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u220	It's a continuation of the subject. And please ask the taxpayers who are Ukrainians, who are Hungarians, Romanians, hahauses, Russians, do they pay their blood taxes to be abused, demanded acts, exams? I think it's already the limit of cynicism -- to abuse people for the same costs that they actually have, maybe the last or the last, because probably the last ones pay for utilities, and the last ones pay taxes for respect for their state. And what's happening in this room right now is disrespect for our citizens, no matter what language is theirs, and they respect Ukrainian language, and we deprive them of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u221	Head of the committee, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u222	My dear colleague, the abuse is also a situation where the Ukrainian language, Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian economy, Ukrainian enterprises working for the Ukrainians of all nationalities do not allow the Ukrainians of all nationalities to become full members of European society, join the European Union, join NATO, protect their security. That's the trouble! And that goes for the money of those people who pay taxes, who are being bullied by people who don't allow it. And this law is completely European, democratic, which protects citizens of all nationalities, and Ukrainian language in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u223	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:11:31]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 1623. Don't insist. 1624. Please, Mrs. Olena Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, regulation 1624 proposes that paragraph 1 of part three of chapter II, "Final Positions", be deleted. What is proposed to be excluded? It is proposed that the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine be excluded from forming a composition of the National Commission of the Ukrainian language standards. I would like to remind you that according to part of article 5 of the Act on Central Executive Authorities, the creation, reorganization, liquidation of the central authorities is being carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and in no way by law. Therefore, it is appropriate to correct and remove it. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u225	Please, head of the committee, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u226	Dear colleague, the law must determine the terms during which the government must form the composition of a Nazi commission and appoint an authorized one. It's not about forming organs, it's about forming them. And they are shaped in accordance with this law. That's why the committee didn't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u227	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:13:03]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 1625. A national MP does not insist. 1626, National Deputy Germano. National MP Shufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u228	Thank you for mentioning my colleague, the coauthor of these amendments, although due to a mistake, but thank you. Of course, I can't help but support my colleague, Alexander Dolzhenkova, to go back to what I was saying, that there is nothing else at this critical time to spend the cost of the state budget? This is about tens or maybe hundreds of millions of dollars. I've got it. I heard a reporter say about what it takes to make people richer, the economy grew, everything was fine. I'm sorry, what have you been doing for five years? Well, if opposition representatives would say that, I'd still understand that. Where have you been for 5 years? And you don't have to hide in conflict, you promised to finish it in two weeks. So, your honor, let's save people's money, let them reduce the cost of their lives and raise their income, not spend it today on conjunctural things for the sake of elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u229	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u230	Dear colleague, first of all, regarding funding, the Ministry of Finance has raised no objections to this bill. As far as your question of conflict is concerned, no one is hiding it. He exists, people die. And those who promise to finish it now in a short period of time may end it only by the people who started it. I can't see in this room or in this country the people who started this conflict. I see people who may support him, but they started him from a neighboring country. Therefore, please refer to them for an end to the conflict. It's a good thing you're flying and communicating.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u231	Please vote. [[13:15:17]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 1627. National deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u232	I am remembering, and the one who promised to end this conflict is Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. I've always said that in two weeks, it's impossible to end this conflict. Even in terms of the constitutional process, if you could even find denominators that would satisfy everyone, it's a long process. Especially with regard to reconciliation on both sides of the conflict. And the fact that Poshenko promised to end the fight and the war last time, and now he wants to return the Crimea urgently, I'm sorry, it's gone once -- it's not going to happen again. But everything will be decided by the people of Ukraine on April 21, which I hope very much. You know, lying can go one way, coming back -- oh, how difficult, oh, how difficult. That's against the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u233	National Deputy Shufrich, I'd like to draw your attention and your colleagues' attention. We have no conflict in eastern Ukraine, we have Russia's war against Ukraine. And only victory over Russia can stop this war. So don’t sell out of this place. I am. Yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't talk to anyone. The chairman refers to the name, it is not. There's no telling that. It is the duty of the presiding officer to address the names of the deputies. You will have the opportunity to express yourself when you have the opportunity and the desire. And I want to say that I'm going to do it knowingly because you are. It's a matter of national security and defence, it's not a matter of political opinion. If political views threaten national security and defence, it is my duty to stop. Thank you. The next amendment is number 1628. People's Deputies. Bird, please. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Chamber of Birds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u234	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a very fine amendment to Mrs. Podowak, and I am grateful that the committee has supported her. But I would like to draw attention to what you saw earlier today that Mr. Shufrich has stated that. publicly that I didn't know about my existence, then twice mislabeled my father. I'm not offended, but, you know, I'm very worried about Mr. Shufrich's voters, because I've amended this bill and, by the way, most of my amendments are considered by the committee. My last name and my initials are repeatedly given in this comparative table. And I'm worried, maybe you've been carelessly familiar with the table and the amendments that were taken into account by the committee. So please, Mr. Shufrich's honourable voters, pay attention to this, because he may be misleading you, and I would still urge you to examine the information that this national MP declares, because of his inconsiderateness and because of the mistakes that are made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u235	The replica. Please, National Deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u236	Mrs. Bird, I really apologized today. Well, it happened that I saw your name as one of the authors of the amendments, and I apologized for my ignorance of the fact that, first of all, we have the People's Chamber of Birds, I, well, I didn't see it for the previous terms, I apologized for my inconsiderateness. And secondly, I didn't know you were the woman I apologized for again. Well, there are different circumstances in life, but it happened that I didn't see you just, well, I didn't see you, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So let's take this conflict off as inappropriate and as my fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u237	Let's get back to work. The next amendment is number 1629. People's deputy Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, 1629 is proposed by law, paragraph 3 of part three of the third article of section VII, “The Final Position”, in the following wording: “to ensure, within the competence of the creation of the proper conditions for the functioning of the Authorized Authority for the Protection of the State Language, that it is provided with appropriate service facilities;” In line with the committee’s proposal, such security functions are also proposed for the National Commission of Ukrainian Language Standards. I'm going to point out that such a commission is not created today, and talking about the fact that it is a perfect fact of creation is invalid. So I'm going to ask you to put whatever's on the committee's agenda, it's a complete readout. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u239	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:21:37]] For-16 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1630, national deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u240	I have to go back to our previous discussion. You know, I used to call things my names. I'll probably believe, Madam Chairman, that you're really fighting. There are still some colleagues in this room, unfortunately, my own. But they're really fighting. But explain to me the position of the President of Ukraine that his yacht should be returned from Balaklava, who receives dividends -- tens of millions of dollars from the country he calls an aggressor; when we have Russia, the trading partner number one in import-export. So I ask you, are we trading or are we fighting? That's why it offends me, this speculation around this issue, and it infuriates the robbery on the issue of war. Porks, Crocobanproms and all that. So let's not speculate. I am for the truth: either to fight or to trade. And please put the amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u241	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u242	Madam Chairman, in support of Nestor Schuffric's position, who resents the fact that we have exports and imports with Russia, I hope that he will continue to take this position against the aggressor country in a consistent manner. Nevertheless, I do not agree with this law because it is not about looting, it is a law on national language. And so I don't think we need to discuss any other things that don't apply to the subject of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u243	I agree, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. Please go back to discussing the subject of this bill. Meanwhile, we vote in favour of Amendment 1630. [[13:23:41]] For the five of us. The decision is not made. Amendment No. 1631, People's Chamberlain. Please speak to the content of this amendment so that I do not turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u244	Think about it: "strengthen the procedure for conducting the exam at the level of the English language;" And it's about people, they're not schoolchildren anymore. One might be in 50, 60 years. Perhaps historical circumstances have resulted in the fact that the previous state, yes and independent Ukraine, does not provide them with the possibility of learning the Ukrainian language. And what, now we're going to deprive them of constitutional rights? The right to work for which they are worthy, and what may the expertise of these people today be necessary for our country’s development? We've drawn tens of thousands of people -- and what did we get? The poverty of the people, the country first in terms of corruption and the first in terms of poverty. That's what they've been up to! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u245	Head of the committee, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u246	Again, it is not a law on corruption or a law on poverty. There's a neighbouring country -- probably less corruption and all the very rich ones who are fighting with us. But this law on the order of the exam. If a person, for example, is not a Ukrainian citizen, has accepted citizenship, and wants to pass an exam, should there be order, or should there be bribes, or should there be corruption against which they have spoken? This rule merely states that order should be established so that there is no culpability and that citizens who want their rights to be protected, if their rights are violated, know to whom and how to turn. So this is a perfectly protective and logical norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u247	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:25:46]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 1632. National deputy Boyko Helena.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u248	Dear colleagues, 1632 is proposed by law to exclude paragraph 1 of part three of section VII, “The End of Positions”. The point is that this standard is proposed for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to accept, within its competence, the order of examination and the order of control. Instead, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with part one of article 64 of the Education Act, such powers are vested in the central executive body responsible for education and science. So please put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u249	Please vote. [[13:26:45.]] For -8 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 1634. After that amendment that counts, will you be speaking, National Deputy Shufrich? Please, 1634.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u250	I will not insist on her vote, considering that she is counted. But, Mr. Report, I fully agree with you that those citizens, those who have become Ukrainian citizens, must know the Ukrainian language. Because when they ask for our citizenship, they have to know the language, I absolutely agree. But historical circumstances. When Ukrainian citizens became Ukrainian citizens in 91st year, they had no opportunity to learn Ukrainian. Examples of these are in the Chernovetsk region of Romania, in the Zakarpatsk region of Hungary. Neither the Soviet Union nor the Ukrainian independent state cared for their knowledge of Ukrainian language. So why are we now depriving people over 50 of their constitutional rights for over 60 years? I don't think it's more national, and it's a violation of the Constitution and disrespect for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u251	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u252	Listen, pensioners who are over 60 years old, no one forces or demands, and they don't ask for any exams, no one violates them, they can speak any language they want. Let's not make this up, because we, or not even us, and some of us here in this room, colleagues fighting for any protection for the Ukrainian language, are starting to invent myths that apply to this law, and there's nothing in this law. This law about government officials -- yes, they have to speak the national language -- is perfectly normal. If she's been studied at school, that's fine. If they have not studied, let them pass the tests, testify to their knowledge. If they're working now, we don't need to reassemble. There's nothing to worry about, it's a perfectly normal European law. Thank you. Thank you for not putting this amendment of yours to confirm. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u253	The next amendment is number 1635. Please, National Deputy Helena Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u254	Dear colleagues, 1635 is proposed by law to introduce part two of the third paragraph of section VII, “Final positions”, in the following wording: “to approve the provisions on public observation of the conduct of the examination at the level of the Ukrainian language, the provisions on the examination of complaints, the provisions on the exercise of language expertise;” Once again, this is related to the prior clarification of the authority. If we're giving the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine the authority that is in the central executive authority that is responsible for education and science, nevertheless, we have to give the Cabinet of Ministers the functions and the powers that are not defined by law. Thus, such positions could and would be appropriate for them to be developed. So I suggest that, in the Committee's editorial form, you don't put on confirmation. Nevertheless, consider the position on the correct distribution of competences and powers in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u255	Please vote. [[13:30:19]] For -8 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1636. People's MP Schufrich, you will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u256	As you continue to discuss with the reporter, you have certainly drawn attention to pensioners, although we have unique experiences, experiences, and pensioners who are involved in the work of public authorities up to 65 years of age and sometimes later in the exclusive decisions that the President or Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is entitled to. But we have citizens who, under 60 years of age and unfortunately, the state, both Ukraine and the Soviet Union, did not teach them Ukrainian. And now to demand their knowledge of Ukrainian language if it's necessary to involve them in the authorities of the state, I think it's irresponsible. And you see, we're doing everything with a colleague of German to at least somehow conform this law to the Constitution. We are certainly grateful to our colleagues for taking this amendment into account, but we want to make other demands.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u257	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u258	I thank you again for not insisting on voting. But what I want to tell you is that, among other things, government officials and now, in accordance with the State Service Act, which you and I have accepted, should be tested for the knowledge of Ukrainian. From this point of view, the law does not introduce any novelties, simply simplifies this process and imposes certain regulations on this process, so that there is no corruption and that this is all logical. Now it's all happening, there's nothing new about this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u259	Thank you. Please vote. Excuse me. Stop the vote. The amendment is counted. The author does not insist on voting. The next amendment is number 1637. I'd like to see the head of the Princess Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u260	Thank you. Please count it in full.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u261	Please take full account of this. [[13:32:48]] For -8
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u262	Eight for. We continue our work. And the next amendment is the same word to the national deputy. Deputy Knieżicki, sorry, it's already wrong to cancel the word "deputy," which I'm very sorry for. 1638. Please, Princess, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u263	It's counted. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u264	Let's move on. Excuse me. Let's go, let's go, let's go. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u265	1641.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u266	1641 People's Deputies. She's listed as German and Shufrich's national deputy, but they demand a word. Please, Mr. Nestor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u267	The logic is completely clear, the question is settled in other rules of "The End of Positions," which is actually tautology. This is another example of how we respect the legal process by upholding our principles and positions. And not only did we notice a certain error, but rather the inadequacy that simplifies the adoption of this law in general, we referred as the obedient and responsible national deputies of Ukraine, and the legislators, to this aspect, and our amendment was taken into account. I reiterate, we are very responsible for this law, not in agreement with it in fact, but we have given it editorial attention that, nevertheless, to the responsibility of the majority and those who vote on it, this law will be voted to meet the standards of lawfulness.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u268	We don't vote, you just expressed your position. I get it. And the next amendment is counted, and you want it, too, 1642. Please, it's Nestor Shufrich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u269	This is another example of how politicians who are represented in this room and supported by Ukrainian citizens, and, by the way, for the first time today, I want to testify to this, well, to some extent, except for the individual straps that due to respect for our opponent, we pay tribute to those of our citizens who have supported a certain national deputy of Ukraine, or one or other political power that is represented today in the Supreme Hall of Ukraine. I would very much like this practice to become permanent before the presidential elections, because in the dialogue, we have a chance to find the truth and the truth, to find solutions that unite the country. And if we follow the principles of conjuncture and ratings, the consequences can be very complex. And the amendment is taken into account, and I don't insist on her confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u270	Thank you for your clarification. I fully agree that the more tolerance there is in the session room, the more tolerance there will be mutual respect in society. Mr. Vasjunik, are you insisting? Please, 1644. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u271	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. With my permission, I proposed that the second paragraph of section VIII, paragraph 3, should be supplemented by the following: “to approve the provisions on the procedure for the verification of consumer rights in the field of the enforcement of language legislation (with the approval of the relevant act of verification)”. The fact is that without such an act, the State service cannot carry out a verification of the information received in the Ukrainian language.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u272	Thank you for your clarification. Do you insist on voting? Please put to the vote the amendment of 1644 of our esteemed colleague Vasjunik. [[13:37:10]] For-24 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 1645, our esteemed colleague, Mr. Lessuk Jaroslav. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u273	Mr. Mikolo, I'm not surprised any more, especially considering that the authors of the law and the committee don't want to listen to what they're saying, take away these stupid notions of "the Ukrainians have a right" and so on and so forth. This is a substitute for the Constitution and the conversion of practically the Law on State Language into a law on what? About the rights of Ukrainians as a national minority. This is the first one. The other one will. Otherwise, you know what? Let's do it. 20 seconds, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u274	You have 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u275	Thank you. Do you understand? It's the same thing that Mr. Parubius, Mrs. Irina will say to people who speak Russian in Parliament: "You have the right to speak Ukrainian." I'm very, very sorry. But say one thing, at least explain why this amendment that I've just made, why is it rejected?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u276	Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u277	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav. Since the committee has adopted a different approach to testifying to the level of language spoken by persons who, at the time of their entry into force of this law, hold appropriate positions from what you propose, such persons should confirm the level of authority in case they change jobs or positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u278	Thank you. Mr. Jaroslav insists on voting. I ask you to put to the vote Amendment 1645. [[13:38:56]] For two. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 1646, as is the national MP Jaroslava Lesuka. Mr. Jaroslav, do you insist? No, it's not. Let's move on. The next amendment is 1651, the National Deputies of Vasily Nimchenka and Nestor Schufrich. Please, Mr. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u279	Thank you, Mrs. Irina, for mentioning my colleague, our colleague, the co-author of the amendments of Vasily Nimchenka, because Mrs. Siroid has expressly refused to mention it, she once mistakenly mentioned it. As far as our position on this amendment is concerned, we believe that this issue is already settled at another time. adopting another norm that we've already considered in "Finally." When we're looking at the Final Positions, and that's a certain tautology. To simplify this bill and it was more accessible, we ask that this article be removed. Once again, in our mind, we have settled this issue. But surely the final decision for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We insist that our rejected amendment be voted on. But given that there are fewer deputies than 226.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u280	15 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u281	But given that we don't have what most of us don't have, we don't have a third, we don't have even 25 percent of Parliament, we certainly don't have any hope of voting on any amendment today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u282	Thank you. Please identify yourself on the amendment that we are currently discussing. This is amendment 1651. Please. Colleagues, shall we show the voting potential for this amendment? There's no box. [[13:41:13]] For-7. Seven in favour, but nine against and 31 against. It's a potential. Let's move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] There were no 235, including Jacenko. Do you see what's going on? The next amendment is the People's Deputy. No, she's listed as the People's Deputy of the Prince. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? Please give me the word of a national MP. [[B in m in s a l in]] I give the word to the Prince right after this amendment. He's asking for 1652.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u283	Yes, I ask her to put it in full scope, because we talked about this with my colleague Musi, she's included in the committee's editorial work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u284	I'd like to make a statement, fellow officers of honor. [[13:42:10]] For-32 He's staying in the committee's office. The next one is 1662. This amendment is rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? 54? Please turn on Mr. Prince's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u285	1654. Comrade Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u286	I'm sorry, Mrs. Boyko, you have a microphone. 1654. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u287	Dear colleagues! Thank you for the word. 1654. It's suggested, "Part Four of Chapter VIII, End Positions, exclude." What is proposed to be excluded? The mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to harmonize its legal acts with this Act. In connection with what? In view of the fact that, first of all, it is an evaluation term to harmonize, and second of all, part of the fifth says that "to ensure that the regulations of ministries and other central executive authorities are brought into line with this law". Thus, part five was given a valid mandate by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u288	Thank you very much. Colleagues, I'd like to make my decision on the amendment of 1654 of our esteemed colleague, Mrs. Boyko, please. [[13:43:27]] For-19 The correction is being rejected. 1660. Please, microphone to the People's Deputy. Ah, Jaroslav Lesyuk. Please, Mr. Lesjuk, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u289	Mr. Mikolo, explain why the amendment was rejected. Please explain, just so I understand. And the second. In this case, I'm going to ask you to do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u290	Thank you. The amendment was taken into account by the committee, and Mr. Leszuk insists on taking full account. Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u291	Thank you. The point is that in the final edition of article 24, paragraph 21, "Transitional positions" are taken into account, the need to change the volume of speech. This is an amendment, which is part of the Transitional Regulations, which relate to television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u292	Thank you. Please. Now. I'm asking you to define yourself for amendment 1661 in full measure. I'm putting her to the vote. Please. I can hear you. [[13:44:53]] For-9 The amendment remains with the committee. Please, Mr. Shufrich, 1659. He's demanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u293	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Well, I have the utmost respect for Valery Pisarenko. He also showed principle today – the amendments that were taken into account, ours, he put on confirmation. It's his regular constitutional right, we respect him. Of course, the amendment he made is a principle, an extraordinary principle. And the hall must show principle in the position of our colleague of the People's Deputies, Pisarenko. He'll be very, very grateful for that, by the way. I am absolutely convinced that as soon as he returns, he will express his gratitude for our actions. And now I insist that his amendment be confirmed. And, I am absolutely convinced, he is with us in his heart and will be grateful for our principled position. Please place his amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u294	Thank you. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 1659, please be sure. [[13:46:25]] For -14 For 14, against 0, they held on to 28 and 239 hearts with us, they didn't vote. Let's keep moving. And the next amendment is 1662. Please, Princess, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u295	Thank you. This amendment has been rejected, please support it, put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u296	Please be sure. 1662. So it was rejected, this amendment. So back up, vote now. You can't. Only the author can speak. [[13:47:05]] For-19 And even Mr. Nestor wanted to say something, but he didn't press the pros button, it's not fair. 1663. Please, People's Chamberlain, give me your word. 1663.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u297	I'm sorry, Mr. Mikolo, I'm basically talking about the last one. I don't understand, you know, my amendments applied. And you understand that very well. You're anchoring this by law the situation that is now in Ukraine. My approach was that channel language should be through frequency, because of frequency, not by making Steppespel and Tarapunka. I really don't like your answers, because they're kind of, you know, very clever. We have to speak directly: I'm for Ukrainianization and, on the other hand, I'm against the insults of any nationalities. But we're acting like a colony in this room, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u298	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u299	Dear colleague, this amendment you made about television was about 80 percent of the channels in Ukraine being Ukrainian - speaking and 20 percent Russian - speaking. These 20 Russian-speaking people would just be, I don't know, the largest Ukrainian television channels in Ukraine, I don't want to call anyone to be offended, but we all know what they're talking about. And so the whole Ukrainian air would be ruse. That is why we opposed this approach. No, I say it like it was written. You had 80 percent of the frequency, you say, should be Ukrainian and 20 percent Russian. As for this amendment, it is included in the amendments to the Administrative Code as adopted by the Committee. In addition, in view of the fact that, according to the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the State language is likened to State symbols, and according to article 65 of the State Service Act, disrespect for State symbols is now the basis for bringing an official to disciplinary responsibility, the Committee considered that the amendment proposed by the author and the proposal is absorbed by the current article 65 of the State Service Act. And this right of yours applied to the State Service Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u300	Thank you. Please place this amendment to the full extent required by the People's Deputy Jaroslava Lesuka. Please. [[13:49:33]] For-9 The amendment remains with the committee. And Amendment 1664, the German and Shufrich national deputies, was rejected by the committee. Please, Mr. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u301	Thank you. It's about "transitional positions." We believe that this law must be completed. "Transitional positions," they always complicate any legislative process of its adoption. There are certainly different motivations, but we believe that in this case the law can be done without the "transitional clauses". So we insisted that this chapter be expelled. Such a law, which is very sensitive to our citizens, is to be completed, must be one that does not allow any possibility of its being discussed as incomplete. That's why we're here for this process to be completed, without any delay, including the various possibilities in the "Transitional positions" reflected. It's always "transitional positions" that make it difficult.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u302	Thank you for your clarification. Please explain the head of the committee on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u303	Thank you. Dear colleague Schufrich, your amendment is indeed intended to exclude you from the law of the entire "Transitional Regulations" bloc. The committee rejected it because the need to amend other laws in order to harmonize with the Language Act is obvious, and I feel that this does not require any specific explanation. Parliament's task is to eliminate the differences between the different laws, and this chapter is aimed at this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u304	Thank you. Your Honor, I'd like to make a statement on this amendment. I remind you, this is the 1664 amendment. [[13:51:40]] For the The correction is being rejected. The next amendment, if I'm not mistaken, is the amendment of the 1674 People's Deputies. 1674 National Deputies Vasily Nimchenka, who made me notice that he co-authored all the amendments with Nestor Sufrich, so he should be called. 1764. Please. 1674.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u305	What's the 16th?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u306	74.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u307	Why 74? There's still 71, there's 69, 68 counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u308	And they're accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u309	Yes, and I'm asking you to confirm them. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u310	Please, 1669. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u311	I'm asking for amendment 1668 to be put on confirmation. This is our principle position. Because we think that a number of issues that are reflected in the Transitional Positions are already reflected and resolved in the Final Positions. This is our respect for the process of lawmaking. We generally disagree with this law, and even this law, which we don't accept in the way it goes out, we want it to meet, in terms of legislation, the requirements that are now dominant in the Supreme Council and in our respective expert committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u312	Please comment to the head of the committee of experts.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u313	Thank you. This is about the exclusion from the law of the clause on the loss of validity of the law of Kivalova Koleschenka. The law of Kiwalova-Keleschenka has failed to act because it has been annulled by the Constitutional Court. That's why there's basically no need for that. Even if we leave him or not, this law is repealed. So I don't understand why I insist. insist on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u314	I'm betting on the motion to vote, as the committee head is now offering. Please. [[13:54:03]] For the 18th. The next amendment is 1669. Please, Mrs. Boyko, give me your word. 1669, ma'am.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u315	Dear colleagues, this is our colleague who just spoke, and I want to point out that 1668 to 1671 -- they're all on the same subject, and they're all accounted for. Including 1671, Germany-Shufrich, was offered to exclude the position that we were just talking about. And I thank Mikola Leonidovich, who explained why they were taken into account and taken into account by the committee. So please don't put them on confirmation. It's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u316	Thank you. And Nestor Ivanovich as a true gentleman, he is. No, well, you said that as a true gentleman you now support Mrs. Boyko's position. The next amendment is 1671, it's German-Shufrich, it's been counted. But, Mr. Shufrich, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u317	I don't know what the final decision will be, maybe someone will want to make this amendment for confirmation, and we can't help but agree, considering that we have the utmost respect for the Rules of Ukraine and for the appropriate norms and capabilities of the people's deputies to demand that the necessary amendments be made to our colleagues for confirmation. But this is another example of the responsibility of the German people's deputy and mine in the process of lawmaking. Where we feel that the legislator, our colleague, wrote standards that are redundant and that simply complicate the possibility of adopting this law in a form, because in fact it is impossible to accept this law, we fight even if it is in a form that it meets the standards of lawfulness. And unfortunately, this law does not meet the Constitution, nor the requirements of today, nor our international commitment, nor the expectations of our citizens, to my great regret.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u318	Thank you for your clarification. We suggest, after all, that you've done a great job with Mr. German to improve this bill, that your amendment 1671 was considered by the committee, and now you don't put it on the record, because I think it's brilliant, if her committee has counted. The next amendment is 1673. This is the same as the German and Shufrich national deputies. She was also a genius because she was counted by the committee, but Mr. Schufrich requires words. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u319	I am proud to have been working with our truly brilliant colleague, the colonel general, he was the head, I repeat, the head of the Supreme Court Military College of Ukraine, a member of the Constitutional Court, a deputy head of the Constitutional Court. By the way, in 1999, it's worth knowing to our colleagues that he voted in the question of the 10th article of the Constitution of Ukraine in the Constitutional Court. And he defined that the Ukrainian language, he confirmed, as it was written in the Constitution, he voted for it that the Ukrainian language was the only one in the country. But at the same time, it was confirmed in the Constitutional Court and the right to use the Ukrainian language and languages of national minorities for all in all directions of activity. That's how we have the historical truth and we have the authority of our colleagues, which I welcome all of us to. And we are happy to help our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u320	Thank you for your clarification. We need to start with an amendment, not a biography of the authors of the amendments, because that's how you can, you know, not end up talking about the biography for three minutes. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u321	Thank you. Well, I'm in solidarity with my colleague Boyko, and I've already explained that this amendment, there are a lot of them here, but we still can't include here the so-called "Knowledge-Clock" because this law has been repealed by the Constitutional Court. So I don't see the point of continuing this discussion, let's move on to the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u322	Thank you. The next amendment is 1674, so is German and Shufrich. It was rejected by the committee, it's not a genius correction. Your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u323	No, her genius is that, you know, genius is, unfortunately, recognized over time. So I'm sorry that this genius wasn't considered during the committee meeting, but there's a time to repent, it's time to test yourself. I want to warn you, if this is not done by today’s composition of the Committee, today’s Supreme Council, this will certainly be done next. Because I am absolutely convinced that if this law is adopted in the form in which it comes out today, it will not be accepted by either the Ukrainian society or the European society to which Ukraine is pretentiously seeking to fall, there are great doubts and questions, but there is a desire. Dear colleagues, we ask you to reject this norm, delete this norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u324	Please comment to the committee head on amendment 1674.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u325	The committee rejected this amendment by a colleague of German and Shufric, because it was aimed at excluding the law of the entire "Transitional Regulations" bloc, obviously the committee does not see it as logical. I want to assure you, Comrade Schuffritch and all the other colleagues that this law will adopt this composition of the Supreme Council will soon accept, and those who will not vote in favour of this law will show their true faces to all the Ukrainians who want to live in a democratic European Ukraine. So I'm absolutely convinced that we're going to vote for this law -- and we're actually going to see who is who in this room and in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-10-m0.u326	Thank you for your position. Colleagues, I ask you to identify yourself for amendment 1674, which was rejected by the committee. [[14:00:43]] For two. The correction is being rejected. Dear colleagues, at this amendment, we are now finalizing the bill on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language. I remind you that on Thursday, April 11, we will continue to work on the Ukrainian Language Bill as a national, and we will start our work with amendment 1676 of the People's MP Pisarenko, who was rejected by the profile committee. Colleagues, let me inform you that today, at 3 p.m., there will be parliamentary hearings on the subject of "The balanced development of human capital in Ukraine: the task of education and science." We wait in Parliament for many guests: educators, scientists. And I invite all colleagues to participate in appropriate parliamentary hearings. And this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Thank you all. And good-bye.
