ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u1	I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Good morning and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, journalists! Dear colleagues! I hope everyone's getting ready to register. National deputies of Ukraine are requested to register. [[10:03:11]] There are 345 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I hope that all the colleagues will return to the session room and participate in the discussion of amendments to the bill that we are currently working on to ensure the functioning of the Ukrainian language. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vladislav Buhareva. Let's welcome our colleague, please. [[Applause]] Sergey Firemark. Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] And Yuri Shapowalova. Fellows, welcome you, age and health, and we wish you the best. And, dear colleagues, I offer today's applause to welcome Ukrainian volunteers. Today, March 14, is the annual Day of the Ukrainian Volunteer. [[Applause]] According to the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of January 17, 17th. Dear volunteers, allow me, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to thank each of you, who, in 14-15 years, joined the Ukrainian army, became part of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the National Guard. Thank you, welcome, and honor the memory of the fallen volunteers, and to those who live, ages, and health, and much thanks to you and your families. [[Applause]] And we thank those of our colleagues who are also now Ukrainian national deputies, but were volunteers in the 14th-15th year, and today they work conscientiously in the Supreme Council of Ukraine as national deputies. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the agenda. At the same time, statements from two factions came to the fore, from "The Fatherland" and the Radical Party of Lachka. Our colleagues are ready to replace the break with the application. And the word is given to Oleg Lazko. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team joins the volunteers. But at the same time, we call on President Dustenk to sign and grant amnesty to 8,000 volunteers who are currently in prison for years, many of them on fabricated charges. The terrorists, the separatists who are moving here under the "Go home" program, are relieved of their responsibility. Today, 8,000 Ukrainian volunteers, who went to the front to protect the country, are sitting in prisons for the most part. And we welcome them, the best greetings for them, for their families to be released. That's why I'm calling on the President to issue orders and get these people out of jail. Now, back to a subject that is no more important to the Ukrainians. Look at the latest polls: the biggest problem for people is the cost of tariffs on utilities, medicines, food. 90 percent of Ukrainian citizens are saving everything, they can't pay for anything. Today, the authorities, suddenly one month before the elections, launched a campaign to combat poverty. Five years earlier, billions had been robbed, and a month before the election, pensioners had been mentioned -- they give, they give, they give, they give, they give, they give, they give taxes. The monetization of so - called subsidies. Since May 1, those who have forgotten have again increased by 40 percent the price of gas. Today, this money is given as a grant and a pension allowance, and tomorrow, double the payments will come to the station. Because you believe that the authorities will give something? The government of the Marauders, which pays millions of wages and bonuses to Naftogazu Kobolev's head, has written down a quarter and a half billion dollars of the prize when millions of Ukrainians last pull out of their pockets to pay for the utility. And someone believes that this authority will? They're only doing one -- bribery of voters to take everything away after the election. So once again, we urge Parliament to adopt the bill we have registered to repeal the government's decision to increase gas prices, to establish a moratorium on the cost of housing and utilities. The whole domestic gas needs to go to housing and utilities to make it worthwhile. We welcome the decision of the government, which has not continued, on our request, the contract with the head of Naftogazu Kobolev. But that's not enough, you have to pay back one and a half billion dollars of prizes that Naftogazu's leadership paid off and brought to the offshore. We're demanding a criminal case for looting Ukrainians' funds and taking them off-shore, regulating the issue of paying public officials and heads of state companies. It can't be like this: millions of people are copulated pensions and salaries, and Naftogazu's leadership is millions of wages and billions of bonuses. Putting prices on gas, on the utility, on drugs, less looting, more pay raises and pensions is the right policy that gives the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the agenda. I remind you that the session hall, the Ukrainian National Deputies are now working, are continuing to work on the second reading of the Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language. And during the two previous sessions, you and I were able to consider 271 amendments to this bill, and we're still working. I invite you to the rostrum of the professional Committee on Culture and Spirituality of Mikola Knieżicke. And we stopped at 272 on Wednesday, which is where we start our work. And please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Onufrica, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the chairman of the committee to present this bill. On what basis was 272 remedies rejected? I would like to remind you that the level of government language is determined by the Institute of Ukrainian Language of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u5	Thank you. Thank you, Sir Bogdan. And I want to address both the presiding officer and everyone in attendance. You know, we're very concerned that the delay in considering this bill could lead to its rejection. So, Madam Chairman, I would be very grateful if you could. (I will now give Mr. Bogdan an answer to the honourable one) so that, as amended, the authors of the amendments will ask questions because they will. We'll take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Knieżicki, yesterday we had a discussion in the session hall regarding the fact that the Ukrainian national deputies, each of them, have the right to amend the confirmation or vote. I will abide by the Rules so that none of us will then answer in the Constitutional Court that we have violated the Rules and that our law is adopted irreprehensibly. I request that Amendment 272 be put to the vote. I've been distracted, don't yell at me, please. Thank you. 272 revisions. National MP Onufric, are you satisfied with the answer? Please, just give me a minute. Answer the correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u7	Mr. Bogdan, once again, we've talked about this a lot. In order for the body that sets the standards to be strong and rigid, a commission was created as the central authority of the executive branch, and the institution provides conclusions and suggestions. On the basis of conclusions and suggestions, this is happening. That's why this amendment is rejected, but essentially this function of the institution is left behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u8	Thank you so much for explaining. Colleagues do not insist on amendment 272. We don't vote on it. Let's move on. 273, Vasjunik. Don't insist. 274th. Germany. Please, microphone to the German National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, we suggest we rule out part two. But I would like to inform my colleague about the content of this article in general. Look. Part one is the level requirement. Requirements, sets requirements. It's essentially the National Standards Commission -- it's essentially a source of kind. He will decide the questions that need to be asked to know whether he owns or does not own them. It's a disgraceful phenomenon that puts national radical ideology and corruption on the platform. Can you tell yourself how the committee makes demands? And two: regarding the level of ownership. Predicted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u10	Please finish, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u11	seconds The center of the Ukrainian language is not even included in the bill. What is the center of the Ukrainian language? Please tell me what is the central organ, the subcentral organ, or the organ.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u12	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this amendment provides for a wide range of positions, such as military officials who are obliged to speak the language but are not obliged to pass any tests and certificates. So I'm asking this amendment, a colleague's offer to reject, because of course we don't want to have any turbulence, as colleagues suggest to force, force all military personnel to take some tests. The law does not provide for this, please do not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Do you insist on voting, Mr. Germanko? He insists. Please specify 274 amendments. [[10:13:55]] For-23 The correction is being rejected. Next, 275th. Mrs. Boyko, please have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, the 275 amendment provides for the first part of article 8 to be edited as follows: "The powers on the appropriate level of national language spoken by the persons defined in Article 7 of this Law shall be established by the central authority of executive authority in the field of education and science." The committee's editorial board is the National Commission of Public Language Standards. Once again, we have in the Ukrainian Education Act, part one of the first article 64, the mandate of this CEV is already defined as the validation of education standards, the validation of order, species, forms of quality education. Since this amendment is considered editorially, I do not place it on the vote for confirmation, but nevertheless I point out to the committee that we already have the CEV, which has the authority to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u16	Thank you. You do not insist on explaining your amendment, simply expressing your position. Thank you very much, dear colleague. John, I'm sorry, Igor Vasyunic does not insist on his amendment. Don't you insist on your revisions? Next, if there's a question. Okay. What's that? 277th is an amendment to Rybchin, but the German national deputy requires words. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, there is no need or legal basis for turning the law into an instruction. Read what is proposed and what the committee has accepted and considered. Well, that's unacceptable! We cannot foresee all actions, all events, and all persons. Tomorrow there will be lists of additional ones, what then? And so I would like them to be treated as legal, as an act of law that harmonizes the conduct, actions and regulation of those social relations that the state and citizens enter into in the application and use of the national language of the Ukrainian. And that's why I'd like to place it on confirmation because, in our opinion, such an emissary and such a norm, it would discredit the law altogether as an act.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u18	Thank you. I'm betting on confirmation of the amendment of the People's Deputy Rybkin in full measure. I'd like to make a statement. Colleagues, I remind you that this amendment was supported by the committee and asked us to support it -- 277th. [[10:16:53]] For-42 Next 278, Germany. Here's your word. Yeah. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u19	I'm on this. Reporter, I'd like to hear the reporter. Mr. Mikolo, landlord, I would like to ask you, please tell me, on what basis do you translate into legislative procedure the adoption of a normative act, namely, the introduction of the appropriateness of checking, examining or not? There is a procedure defined by the Rules, and I would like to stay out of it. And second of all, why don't you go over this part and explain what this organ is, the center of the Ukrainian language? You can tell people to understand, what is this center, and I want to understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u20	Please comment. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u21	Thank you. 278 The amendment is rejected because the law establishes the duty to speak the national language. There should also be an order in which to carry out this responsibility. In particular, the rules governing the approval of this domain are involved. Thus, the amendment was rejected. The body as the center of the Ukrainian language is not in the law, it is not mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u22	Please be determined by this amendment 278. [[10:18:23]] For-19 Colleagues, this amendment only received 19 votes, and it is being rejected. We're moving on. 279, Mrs. Boyko. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! 279 reads part of the second article 8 in the following edition: "The level of public speaking by the persons defined in article 7 of this law is carried out in accordance with the order established by the central authority of the executive branch in the field of education and science." I've already talked about my position. However, I will not insist on voting because this is taken into account editorially. However, I would like to point out that the Committee's editorial section of article 7 of this law stipulates that the order of the examination shall be established in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In terms of the logic of the legislature, please explain why the Cabinet of Ministers is there setting up a procedure for the completion of the exam, and the level of ownership should be set by the newly created COVA? Please, if you don't mind, just answer without a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u24	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u25	Because the level of ownership is actually experts have to determine what level of ownership. And the order itself is documented so that there will be no abuse. This was raised to the level of the Cabinet of Ministers so that no one could be accused of being abused. And the level is a philosophical sign, it's a scientific sign, it's not, well, it's essentially normative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u26	Thank you for your clarification. The next amendment is 286. Please, Mrs. Olga Belkova, you. 286th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u27	Thank you. Madam Head and Head of the Committee, I am pointing out to you that I have a number of rights that are aimed at correcting, in my view, the wrong approach to defining additional requirements for state and municipal property enterprises. The point is that article 10 of the Constitution clearly defines the list of persons to whom special, let’s say, terms of use of the national language should be applied. The bill now includes state enterprises and utilities. But according to our understanding of the Constitution again, they're the same as private enterprises, they're created for their own reasons, well, they're acting like any other private enterprise. Here we set up additional requirements that we do not require from private people. I'm asking you to look at a bunch of right-handers, including 286. I am convinced that we will be able to compromise with you in order to remove the mention of state companies and utilities that, in my opinion, should not be included in the requirements of this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u28	Thank you. Please comment, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u29	Thank you, Comrade Bilkov. As we talked to you before about some private enterprises, I personally agree with some of your arguments, but there was another position on the committee, and we will discuss it in the final vote. With regard to this item, first of all, I want to say that this amendment is taken into account by excluding from the chapter the words "other operators". So these words "other operators" are excluded here. Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a requirement of the State for workers and businesses. It's actually a requirement for employees and businesses of all kinds of property, because when we demand, for example, even from a private organization to do the law, it's private, but we require it to do the law both from the radio and from television about a certain number of Ukrainian languages, as well as other businesses. Thus, in the area where these are required, such requirements will be met. When you raise the question that when you accept a job, for example, members of the supervisory boards of private companies are obliged to speak a language that may conflict with a valid rule, we will discuss it with you when we return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u30	Thank you for your clarification. And as far as I can tell, Mrs. Olga is not planning. does not insist on voting. I noted that Mr. Pisarenko was required to be given two hundred words. Now, darling, now. 272nd. Two hundred? [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u31	282, Madam Chairman. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u32	Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u33	Yeah. Thank you. We had a little bit of an issue yesterday about levels of ownership, yes. I have a question for the chairman, and after that, I would like to ask for confirmation of this amendment. Well, I think we're moving fast enough. If this law is adopted in this paper, then at these levels that are written out, I'm convinced that not so many people who are sitting in this session room are going to reach certain levels, yes. So would it not have been more comfortable or would it have been serious enough to discuss the matter, or would you have done so, worked on it? And the others. Wouldn't it be appropriate to take some time off the question of level implementation so that we can see how the procedure works, so that people can try first in test mode what level it reaches, and then they could already do that. Could we work? Maybe we should take 3-5 years to do this for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u34	Thank you. Was there a question for the chairman, for the chairman, or for the reporter? You said to the chairman. If it is for the presiding officer, I believe that the deputies should participate in the dictatorship of national unity each year. One of the fine tests for learning Ukrainian, including the written Ukrainian language. Unfortunately, I'm afraid that in this room, well, a maximum of 10 people's deputies participated for once in the dictatorship of national unity. Let us write without waiting for the Day of even the mother tongue. And after the law is passed, we'll invite the dictator of the Ukrainian Radio and write a dictator. It'll be a good test. Please comment, your honorary committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u35	First, this paragraph literally translates the decision of the European Commission, which operates in all European countries and is adopted on the basis of the recommendations of the Council of Europe. There is no change in this point. The deferral you're talking about also exists, this rule will take effect two years after the law enters into force, which also has an extension. So actually all of your wishes here are essentially all of your questions taken into account, I gave them an answer. Because this is the only rule for all of Europe, literally translated, without any change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u36	Thank you. I feel that the explanation is complete. Are we moving on? Are you insisting? Mr. Pisarenko insists that I place this amendment as chairman for confirmation. My colleagues, I would like to remind you that this is the rule of the Rules, unfortunately, which is cooled out by the bill. And I'm betting on confirmation, on the request of the People's Deputy Pisarenko. We have no questions, we now have a request for confirmation. After the next amendment, you'll take the word for discussion. Please specify 282 amendments. The committee's asking for a vote, asking her to confirm, dear friends. Colleagues, this is for confirmation of the amendment, please consider. And I don't have a remote, I'd like to see what's going on. [[10:26:17]] For-46 The correction is cooled out, I'm afraid. But I think we'll go back to her at the end of the bill. Please require the word of the People's Deputy Barna. Please turn on the microphone. What correction do you need to make?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u37	Good afternoon! Edit No. 80 foresees three levels of basic Ukrainian knowledge.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u38	Dear Mr. Barna! Dear Mr. Barna, I'm sorry. According to article 120 of the First Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we must move in order. We're now on 282 revisions. I'm sorry, I'm not coming back two hundred and eighty-six, even two hundred and eighty-six, even two hundred and eighty-eight amendments to Mrs. Belkova's. It was just there that I had previously raised Pisarenko’s hand, and I had to respond. 287 amendment, National Deputy of Germany. I'm asking all my colleagues to keep an eye on our table so we don't get distracted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u39	Please, German microphone. Please fix the computer for me. Turn on the German microphone, please. 287 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u40	The question is, an error has been made. They've moved what's right. We suggest we rule him out. And that's why I don't bet on it. Mrs. Irina, there's an error, a description passed, we've passed the name of this chapter, and we're asking you to delete it. And that's why I don't bet on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u41	To the vote. Thank you. Let's move on. Next up, 288. Please, Mrs. Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, please place 288 for confirmation. The title of section IV is as follows: "The use of national language in the work of public authorities, authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, authorities of local self-government, enterprises, institutions and organizations of all forms of property." It is, in fact, identical, as the committee suggests, however, without the words "all forms of property." I would like to hear and have heard the answer, Mikola Leonidovich, when considering the 286, position of the committee. However, I would like to ask for confirmation in line 288 with the words "all forms of property." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u43	Thank you. I request a comment from the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u44	Thank you. Fellows, you can see that we have a part of the MPs, and we have a colleague of Bilkov in the opposite position, a colleague of Boyko in the opposite position. I would ask, however, by voting, to look at the committee’s decision: this decision was rejected. Although many of her colleagues supported Mrs. Boyko’s position, she understood. But there were other positions, and there were most of them, so the committee decided to reject the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u45	Thank you. Mrs. Boyko does not insist on voting, she received a comprehensive answer to her question. 289. Please, Sevrukov. Don't you insist? Let's move on. Washunik, 290. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, the law suggested that the title of the article on the use of the national language should be clarified during meetings, events, meetings and working meetings, complementing with one word "outputs" because the most frequent violation of the requirement for the use of the national language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u47	Thank you. Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u48	Indeed, the amendment suggests that the language of speech be further regulated in the article. It was rejected because, first of all, the word "show-off" is too broad a term to regulate legal matters in that word. Secondly, the law regulates the language of meetings and there are more precise regulations, such as cases of permissible use of another language, such as measures for foreigners, between foreigners or with the participation of foreigners, and this will be further detailed. The committee rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u49	Thank you so much for the clarification. Don't you insist? You insist. I ask you, colleagues, to decide on the amendment of 290 National Deputy Igor Vasyunika, please. [[10:31:15]] For-33 The amendment is not accepted. Next up, 291st. National MP Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u50	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I see that the articles have changed a little bit, but when it comes to what kind of language official action should be, we talked about what it should be, of course, is that official action in public authorities should be national. But now I see that article 12 now speaks about the working language of the public authorities, which should be national. I think, though, that even in the workplace, people have to communicate only in Ukrainian, it's kind of naive. We realize that people will communicate in the language they are accustomed to communicate in normal life. If we now prescribe standards that are not known to be fulfilled, we must be honest about it. I think it would be better to make it clear that official measures and official documentation - Ukrainian, other - people have to decide how to communicate with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u51	Thank you. Thank you. And please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u52	Dear colleague Pisarenko! Look, I'd like to ask you very much, if you'd like me to meet you, we'll talk sometime. You put the previous amendment to confirm -- and we went back to a much tougher question. You stand up for the rights of people who for one reason or another have been Russians, who have not yet learned Ukrainian, but who find that you're applying for confirmation -- and you're making these people tougher by law, and the Harkians see it. So when we rejected your previous European regulation, the fact that not everyone needs to pass the exams, but just for a small number of people, we went back to a tougher formula. Similarly, this amendment is rejected because it provides for simplified regulation of language issues in public, municipal, and business activities. Unsettled issues of language use in action with foreigners, for example. It is not determined what official measures are in place for the use of the national language. That is, your amendment will force even where it is not necessary to use the national language. We welcome this as citizens, but as politicians who make sure that the law is adopted in the West and in the East and in those who know the language and those who do not know it have rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u53	Thank you. And please. Are you insisting? Please identify yourself for Amendment 291. Please. [[10:33:58]] For -14 14-in. The correction is being rejected. Next up is 292, Mrs. Belkova. Please, the 292 amendment is the author of it. Mrs. Belkova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u54	Thank you. Your Honor, the head of the committee! I'm sure I'll also ask you for a personal meeting because I want to figure it out, so what are we insisting on, especially in state and municipal enterprises? I'll give you a few examples, and I'll have a meeting with representatives of international organizations in an hour. So do I have the right to speak to them in English or not in new norms as a representative of the state? Can I use the language I know abroad? The same is true of the leaders of state companies. And for example, we have government mines. In this 292 amendment, we require the use of the national language during meetings, events, meetings, and working association. Well, you know, there are a lot of miners, for example, who don't speak Ukrainian fluently today. Do we want today, well, such strict requirements for state and municipal enterprises, at the level of working communication, informal interventions, informal measures, and employment communication? I want yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u55	30 seconds to complete. Thank you, Mrs. Olga. Answer, answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u56	First of all, Comrade Bilkov, private, labour communication is in no way regulated by this law. Second, the law specifically states that you have the right to speak in a foreign language at any meeting. The law on this is a separate point, especially when there are foreigners. As a result, this amendment is editorially taken into account, and the approved committee has made it clear that this article is being extended to state and municipal institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u57	Thank you. Please, 293 amendments to Germany. For confirmation? Well, you are now. Germany. Mr. Germany, I'm turning on the microphone and you'll tell me yours. I give you my word. Please, Mr. German's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u58	Mr. Germanko requests 292 amendments for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u59	Mr. Nimchenko asks that Mrs. Belkovy's amendment be confirmed, which has been taken into account in an editorial way. At Mr. German's request, I'm putting this amendment in full order for confirmation. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support her. The committee's asking for a vote. The committee wants to vote in favour. [[10:36:35]] For-60 Let's move on. The next amendment is 293. Mr. Nimchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, first of all, those who worked with law and law enforcement standards, see what chapter is being prepared. First of all, it's offered to all the subjects of the household, including state and municipal property. First, the authorities, the more local authorities, are not the operators, read. And the second. I would like you to say that, unfortunately, this cannot be an exhaustive list of meetings, of action. I'll tell you, more colquiums and everything. That's no way to write the law! And I'd like us to step out of a unified approach. Do you want me to tell you? Then let's write a new line: ban the use of Russian in this system -- that's all! Ukrainian citizens are not allowed to use it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u61	Thank you. I also want to make here as the presiding remark that there is a free circulation in Ukraine of any foreign language and language of national minorities. We're now discussing the functioning of Ukrainian as a national language. And let us not demean our national language. Please comment to the committee head and proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u62	Thank you. Since the issue of the use of the languages of public entities, municipal forms of property should be governed by this law, the decision of the Constitutional Court of 1999 stated that the article should be left to the law, and the amendment of the German colleague was rejected. I am very much asking all colleagues -- both the opposition forces and the leaders -- not to humiliate other peoples and nationalities, because we live in a democratic European country. The Russians, the Romanians, the Jews, the Hungarians, the Ukrainians, we're all equal in our country, we're taking care of everyone. Please keep your hands where I can see them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u63	Thank you. Please proceed with the amendment of the 293 National Deputy of Germany. Please, colleagues. The committee turned her down. [[10:39:11]] For the 18th. The correction is being rejected. Next, please, National Deputy Vasjunik, 294 amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Dear colleagues, I would still like to support my amendment, and in the first part of article 9 of the draft law, after the word "come meet" to be supplemented by a split sign and the word "presentations." And the second. Since there is no clear requirement for the obligation to use the national language during meetings, procedures and others, the first part of article 9 of the draft law should therefore be supplemented by the following paragraph: “The persons defined by article 7 of the Act are obliged to use the national language in the first place.”
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u65	Thank you so much for explaining. Please, head of the committee, why did they reject the amendment? Give us an explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u66	The amendment suggests that the language of the speeches should be regulated, as said by a colleague Vasjunik. It's rejected because it's the word "show" that has too broad a term to regulate legal issues. Secondly, the law regulates the language of meetings, and there is a more precise regulation. In particular, it is envisaged in cases where another language is allowed, for example, in foreign action, between foreigners or with the participation of foreigners, as a colleague of Bilkov said, and we will discuss this further when we move on. And this amendment is rejected by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u67	Thank you. Mr. Vasyunik insists on voting on his amendment. Colleagues, please identify yourself for this amendment, please. We have heard the position of the distinguished Mr. Igor and the distinguished Mr. Mikoli. [[10:40:49]] For-35 The amendment is not accepted by the sessional hall. And the next amendment is 295. Please, the People's Deputy of Semimenah. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, it is vital that the law contains real and effective standards. We therefore proposed this law in an article that regulates the language of the activities of public authorities, local self-government of enterprises, institutions of various forms of property, offered to refuse to set requirements for the language of working communication, given the lack of definition of this concept in legislation, and taking into account the complexity of ensuring that this insufficiently defined requirement is met. In order to avoid manipulation in this matter, it is appropriate to consider our application. In doing so, I'm paying attention to you, it's not about the language of meetings, the arrangements, the meetings, the language requirements for which are perfectly reasonable and reasonable. Thank you. And please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u69	Thank you, colleague. This amendment was rejected by the committee, since the language of working communication in government authorities, local self - government in state - owned enterprises, according to most members of the committee, should be the language of the State. Exclusions are allowed, they are foreseen by this article and will be considered further, there are exceptions, they are clearly prescribed. But in general, a person who understands Ukrainian should understand his fellow workers at work, and this is stated in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u70	Thank you. Mr. Semenha, do you insist? Don't insist, you've got the answer. Thank you very much, we're moving on. 298 revisions. National deputy Lesjuk, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] 296th is the amendment of the Prince. Please. Who's the mike? Turn on Mr. Pisarenko's microphone, please. 296 revisions. Mr. Mikola, this is your repair.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u71	Mr. Mikola, yes, I'm going back to our discussion. First of all, I would like to ask you not to talk about the Harkivians anymore, that they are rudimentary. They speak many languages in Kharkiv, believe me. There are many foreign languages, people speak Russian, Ukrainian, and many languages. And by the way, enough intelligent people who don't allow themselves to be corrected to have to speak one language. As far as I'm concerned. Once again, I want to draw your attention, it's a work question, but hear me out, because we've been with you a lot -- I hope you've also been to a variety of meetings, events and meetings of local self-government workers. Well, you can't get the whole country to have working meetings in English alone, because today, for example, if you come to Kharkiv, we have international meetings every day, meetings with different people coming from all over the world. Well, we need to communicate in the languages we're going to have in the protocol. Here. You're narrowing it down now. So let us perhaps turn to others.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u72	Finish up, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u73	Yeah. I'm just not saying that we don't need a national language in this respect, I'm saying that we need to look closely at where we apply what formulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u74	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u75	Sadly, his colleague Pisarenko was not alone with the Harkowians. Even the Ternopolitans, the Lions, and the inhabitants of Ivano-Frankivsky experienced it because the country suffered from colonization. This in no way demeans the Harkowian, it does not demean the Harkown patriots, the people who made the film about the "Word Building" that lived there, the harkian intelligence that everyone in the hall loves and respects, but doesn't want these people, like the inhabitants of other regions, to suffer further from colonization. As far as your question is concerned, the language here goes: it's widespread, it's editorially accounted for, it's an amendment, and it only extends to subjects of state and municipal property. It does not extend to other entities in the form of property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u76	Thank you. Let's move on. Please amend the 297, People's Deputy Lesjuk. National MP Lesjuk, 297 amendment, that's your amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, that's how she's asked for words right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u77	Thank you. If this is taken into account in the way you wrote it, Mr. Mikolo, thank you very much. Because when you go not only to the embassies but to the governing bodies in Ukraine, you feel like you're in the schools preparing spies against the Russian Federation. And of course, any member of the embassy within the embassy has to speak only the national language, including even the drivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u78	Thank you. Your next amendment is 298. Please, Mr. Lesjuk. 298, Mr. Lesjuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] I already announced 298. Mr. Lesjuk, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u79	Mr. Mikolo, please explain why this amendment was rejected. 298, why.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u80	Thank you. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u81	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Jaroslav. In fact, this standard is yours, and it's going to be the whole law. The above article 9 contains a list of persons who are obliged to use the national language in carrying out their duties. To isolate one of them in order to further say, in addition to saying something about them, would confuse the application of the law, since it might seem that other individuals might not be able to communicate with one another in Ukrainian. As a result, the committee decided to reject the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u82	Thank you. Please define 298 amendments. Thank you. Colleagues. [[10:46:51]] For-29 The amendment is not accepted. 299th, Paul Kishkar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u83	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Thank you to Mr. Nicholas and the committee for supporting 299. Logically, the work of diplomatic institutions, as well as that of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is directly linked to the use of Ukrainian as a national language. And I think that's the correct wording for the part of the first article 9. In addition to the process in which we entered the electoral process, there is much that makes it impossible for Ukrainians to speak English or English to have access to electoral law today. We insist that the authorities allow the Ukrainians to vote on the boards of departure and in the noble generals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u84	Thank you. We're moving on. I can hear you. To be confirmed. Dear colleagues, we are now. Which one? On 300 amendments, which was also included. 301, National Deputy Lesjuk, please. Your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u85	Mrs. Irina, what is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u86	301.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u87	Mr. Mikolo, this is about the same question as 298. Please understand. The key word is "public sphere." Why was it rejected? The key here was about the public domain, it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u88	An explanation. I answered your question when I spoke about your previous amendment, since article 9 contains a list of persons who are obliged to use the national language. This list is exclusive and closed. We do not want to extend or narrow it down so that every citizen knows exactly where he is obliged to use the language and where he is not obliged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u89	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u90	Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u91	We made this amendment. I'll bet you 302 votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] 301 right. Those who support 301 amendments have rejected it, please vote. [[10:49:27]] For-23 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, I apologize for the delay in the session, but I have just returned from the military part of the First Battalion of the Operational Assignment of the National Guard of Ukraine of General Kulczycke's name, where I welcomed the First Voluntary Battalion with the Day of the Ukrainian Volunteer. Now I want to welcome all the volunteers from all units, from all the parts that went first to the front. And I remind you that five years ago, March 13th, actually, here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, was passed by the National Guard of Ukraine Act. I had the privilege of reporting him back from the rostrum as Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council. And tens of thousands of Ukrainian volunteers went to the front to protect Ukraine. They may not have had enough experience. They went straight out of Midan's fights. But they had great love for Ukraine, a great desire to protect Ukraine. And that broke all of Putin's plans. Volunteers formed the ideological foundation of the Ukrainian army. I want all those who are on the front, the veterans who are in this room, and we have, in fact, the battalion of the National Guard and the other battalions of volunteers who were protecting Ukraine, to welcome the Volunteer Day and the entire Ukrainian people! Victory! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u92	And we will still protect Ukraine from those who are trying to destroy it! So the next line is 302. Don't insist. 302, Barna. I'm sorry, it's rejected. It's Ribczynski's. The head of the committee makes a note. Rybczynski doesn't insist, I'm sorry. Rybczynski does not insist. 303, Germany. Please turn on the German microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! I want to read to you, "in the language of meetings, events, meetings and working conversation." Where's the "and" behind this? Did I. Did I work or did I not work? Did you check the etymology or not?Oh, my God! I would like to remind you, Your Honor, of article 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which allows citizens to gather for their own interests. Imagine going to the March 8th meeting, and what? What are we talking about? What are we talking about? I say again, this is essentially not integrating Ukrainian as a national language, this is going to be direct assimilation. Can you imagine the organs of self - government, where hagauses live compactly, what will we impose on them? You put in the Minority Law and translated it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u94	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u95	And so I would like us to go clearly, to shoulder all the tongues that are, and then there will be order. That's what this is about. Please delete this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u96	Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u97	Thank you. Please do not support this norm, since it excludes the use of public language in local governments, which is contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court since 1999. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u98	Thank you. So we're going to vote on Amendment 303 of the German and Shufric authors. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[10:53:41]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, pay attention! I've just received Papi's National Rights List. As I approach them, I will announce them. Next. He brought me a couple dozen rights here, but we're going to be sounding them gradually. So 304th. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, but they don't want confirmation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Moses is the author. I have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, honourable members of the national parliament and head of the committee, I thank you for taking this amendment into account, it is absolutely right and proper, especially since it is included in 208 rights, and in other articles. And I would also like to thank separately for taking into account the 60 rights that I have given, 20 rights, but I think that the other corrections that have been made in this chapter, namely the people's deputies Boyko and Vasilik, are absolutely right and appropriate, and maybe we should get together before the final vote of the people's deputies and talk about the forms of ownership, so that we can find a consensus solution and vote out the whole law, because it might be a stumbling block. And when you go back to the medicine you were talking about, there are also forms of ownership of the enclosure, and half of the hall -- those who are willing to vote in favour of the Language Act and its adoption, it might be a precaution not to vote in favour of the Opposition Block. Therefore, it may be wise to heed such a proposal and vote separately before the final vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u100	Thank you. Thank you, fellow Musai. But I hope we get together. I don't mind getting together. Let's go to the repairs quickly. Colleagues, let's not delay the adoption of this bill. Please, I'll be grateful to everyone. If any changes are taken into account, do not put them on the stand. Anyone not included, please speak. I'm asking you very much because it's going to last forever. And I believe that the patriots will do nothing to the opposition blocs, forces and other anti-Ukrainian forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u101	Thank you. I would like to point out to you that before the final vote, the committee will be able to gather. All the changes that have been rejected and confirmed, the committee will see which are very important, and we will go back to them and confirm them. So I'm stressing that there's no need to be afraid that some national MPs are trying to break the law right now. We'll be able to get back to them, I'm underlining that. Which is important, and we have to understand that. We cannot violate the rule of law, for it can then be challenged in the courts. So let's not make mistakes, but let's be clear about the Rules. He asked Papiev to put it on 304. He's already on the stand. Okay. Okay. Papiev, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies of Ukraine, you know, I think with the arrival of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at last, I think the meeting will go democratically and in accordance with the Rules. I'd like to address you, Mr. Head. There have been important amendments to your visit, especially with regard to the language in which the meetings are held, the arrangements, the work meetings in the local authorities. For example, there is a Hertzian region in the Cherniew region, 92 percent of which is made up of citizens of Ukraine who are Romanians of ethnic origin. You can imagine in the country council, where 100 percent of the Romanian citizens of Ukraine are in what way. So you're actually violating the 20th article of the Constitution of Ukraine -- you're narrowing down the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. I would just like to take these amendments very seriously. And I'm asking you to place 304 amendments on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u103	Thank you. Before I give it to Mikola Knieżicki, I'll say in a nutshell: don't manipulate. The Presidency and the Head of the Supreme Council, and Irina Heratchenko's deputy, we act by one rule and act by law. Therefore, do not manipulate when and how the meeting goes by law. So, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u104	Thank you. Well, first of all, I support the Head of the Supreme Council, and I want to say don't manipulate. Because the standards that are here usually come into force after two, some after three years, some even longer. The government will ensure that people are educated. But the people of any background of Ukrainian citizens should speak Ukrainian in the authorities of the state, not tomorrow, there will be transitional periods. But we have to do this because these are our citizens. Just as we respect their language of origin, so they should respect the language of the State in which they live. In parallel, when the bill is under review, the second reading discusses each article in the order of its numbering proposed by the Main Committee. If so, a decision will be taken to review the bill in a different order in accordance with Article 19 of this Rules. So I would ask the speakers to move in the order of the articles and not go back to the previous articles, because the Main Committee did not propose that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u105	Yes, we will not go back to any adjustments. I'll bet you 304. The committee supports it and asks everyone in the room to support 304 revisions. Please vote, please support the 304. [[10:59:15]] For-79 The decision is not made. But I remind you, the committee can come back. 305, Musi. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u106	The honourable head of the committee! I've heard your arguments earlier on the similar rights of the People's Deputies, Kiskar and Lesyuk. But it's actually very hard to take this argument from your side because there's an area of application here that's defining this. Perhaps in the final session, the list of articles, the list of subparagraphs 1, 2, 4, and the entire article 9 would be required in the public sphere of media presentations. You read the last lines, the most important ones there are the last lines. Because we see all the civil servants who say that we don't talk at work, we talk on TV, on all the shows, on all the others. Still, he remains in office. Rather than express his private thoughts about his personal life in a different language, he expresses his work, his activity. Another foreign language is probably also wrong, and there's a way to think about how to eventually formulate this right so that it's adopted in terms of media and the Internet.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u107	Comrade Musai, I agree with you. I just want to point out that the scope of this law applies. First of all, the whole law is about the public sphere, because the private sphere is not regulated by the law. All that is written there is about the public domain. And second of all, there's an article. Chapter V of this Act, which clearly states in detail where and when, and the scope of application is regulated, is Chapter IV. We're going to go to V, and it's all going to be written there, and then we're going to talk about it with you. Because, of course, the civil servant is supposed to communicate in Ukrainian everywhere, and no one is arguing with you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u108	Thank you. So I'm voting on amendment 305, Musia. She's been rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[11:01:22]] For-23 The decision is not made. 306th. He insists. Please, 306th Boyko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, the 306th edition provides for part of the first article 9, which reads as follows: “The language of meetings, events, meetings of work in public authorities, authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local self-government bodies, enterprises, institutions and organizations of all forms of property are the state language.” Please bet on confirmation. The discussion has already been opened so the answer and the position of the committee I know. However, please put on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u110	Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u111	A colleague of Ribczynski raised the same. We're just saying that in the public and municipal sphere there should be more stringent rules, we don't want too much interference in the private sphere, and we don't interfere in it at all. This is a colleague of Bilkov's, for example, saying that even state enterprises, because they are essentially and legal forms are equal to private ones, they shouldn't apply to this law, you know, we have different perspectives in the room. So obviously we were trying to find a balance and a more severe regulation was made for the state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u112	Thank you. This is really a compromise position for the committee. Let's now put 306 votes to the vote, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:02:58]] For-21 The decision is not made. 307, Denisenko. Don't insist. 308th. Don't insist. 309th. 307, Denisenko. Timisu's passing it on. Please, Timish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u113	The honourable head of the committee, in principle, part of the first article 9, you've passed this amendment, it's actually your amendment, it's voted, but I'm interested in action. In places where ethnic minorities live compactly, there are artistic actions, cultural and artistic measures, which is the coloring of what these actions say, sing, dance in the language that was used for 400-500 years there, I speak for Bukovina, for South Bessarabia, for Carnations. You realize that that's the norm we're not leaving behind any glamour to make. At the time of the adoption of the National Minorities Act, we will not be able to apply this norm and allow them to hold such festivals, such as Mercishor and other art and culture festivals in their own language. Please comment on this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u114	Thank you, colleague. I guarantee you that Mercishor Festival, other national minority festivals have the full right to conduct their minority languages, as discussed in article 23, we are currently discussing only article 9. And I'm really worried that we're not even going to talk about the 23rd, because we're moving so slowly. If we move on schedule and don't waste time. Everyone has seen that we are patriots, everyone has seen that some people love language, others love their constituents who do not love language. Everybody understands, let's move quickly, let's go -- and you'll see that this is the question that's being solved there. Of course you're absolutely right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u115	One minute, Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u116	Thank you, Mr. Head. The following sections follow the text, which decipher the language of business, the language of sports, and the cultural arrangements. This is the first time. So it doesn't look like this law is going to oppress the rights of the Hungarian national minority, let's say, the Romanian national minority. We have to remember that, first of all, since 92, the National Minorities Act has been in force in Ukraine, and there are all rights within the framework and literally warned, including the right to take cultural action now in places of residence by any minority and any action. Although you are currently holding festivals, this is fully in line with the National Minorities Act. And thirdly, we're giving a link around that will be passed by the Law on the Languages of National Minorities and Indigenous Peoples, where we'll literally write down all of these norms that you're now concerned about. And before that, there will be major transitional periods that are foreseen in the Transitional Positions of this law. I mean, there's nothing to worry about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u117	I'm betting on the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, I'm betting on a vote on an amendment that is rejected by the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] After 306, the committee rejected her, who supported her, please vote. That's 306 now, 307 now. Now we're voting 306. [[11:06:49]] For-12. The decision is not made. 307, Denisenko. Denisenko is the author of the amendment. Excuse me, Denisenko is the author of the draft. If he's not here, we move on. 308th, no insistence. 309th. My colleagues, listen to me carefully! 309 revision, are the authors of the amendment. There are authors. Because he insists on "The Cloud" acting, I don't know why. The authors have to speak. Please, 309th. Yes, yes, I know, Semenah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! It is called upon to address the issue of the use of foreign languages during meetings, events, or meetings in public authorities, local governments. The second reading of the bill is much clearer compared with the first reading and provides if a language other than the national language is to be translated into the national language at the meeting or meeting. At the same time, I ask you to consider and take into account our very amendment, its wording proposed, which provides that use in meetings, meetings or meetings of others other than the national language should be subject to objective reasons and should apply to foreigners who do not speak the national language. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u119	Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u120	Thank you. Well, 309 revisions she says that if a foreigner who does not speak the national language speaks during a public meeting, a meeting is held, the organizer will provide a full, consistent or simultaneous translation. The law says that the purpose of the move is to provide a translation. And what would be the translation, whether serial synchronous or otherwise, is the case of the organizer of the event. That's why we rejected it, because we didn't want to detail what translation it was, so it's important that the translation be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u121	I'm betting on a vote of 309. The committee. Don't you insist? Yes. Colleagues, next. I want to let you know, there's 310 revisions, there's an author of this amendment, but Papiev has submitted a letter to give him the word. I would like to inform you further that the word for amendment is given to the authors, and the authors are given the word. I say this for Mr. Michael: The authors are entitled. Yes, and that's why I'm giving it to Germany. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, a reputable reporter! I want to inform both the national MPs and colleagues and the people of Ukraine: you have come out as a reporter under such an important law -- and you are manipulating, you are interpreting the Constitutional Court's decision in your own way, and you are not reading it to the end, and you are referring to the Constitutional Court's decision. By the way, I wrote it to make it clear to you, and I took part in his acceptance. This is the first time. And secondly, you read, there it is, in accordance with article 10 of the fifth article 10, which says, I quote you in article 10 (part five): "Implementation of languages." Do you hear that? Move! It's a set! What are you doing? And you translate it into Ukrainian, you translate it into 10th, part 5th, just for.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u123	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u124	The violation of the rules of the Constitution! And I'm asking you to stop doing this to the reporter! If you don't understand the meaning of the law or the decision of the court, please don't apply it, because I think you look a lot funnier than I use the Russian term in Ukrainian. And that's why I'd like you to admit first that you're manipulating. And second of all, never.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u125	Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u126	As I have said many things, we do not deny the obvious use of other languages. And article 2 says that this will involve another law. This now includes the National Minorities Act, mentioned by counterpart Kirilenko. As for the substance of the amendment, well, I have nothing to say, because essentially nothing was said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u127	So let's go to the vote. 310th partially counted. The authors insist that it be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this, please vote. [[11:11:26]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I'm telling them, right-wing is a speech by the author, a speech by the committee head, a vote. Don't turn it completely into a comedy! We can't have a debate on 5-7 shows on every side. We have to go by the law, but we don't take too long. Do not delay the process. It's an artificial delay in the process, what you're doing. Please, 311th Screecher. Don't insist. 311 for confirmation. Please, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u128	I'm a relatively re-reporter, I mean, that's relevant. You refer to the adoption of laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u129	You don't get it, you don't get it. Please turn on the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that the reporter says this will be settled: the rights and languages of national minorities. I want to report that we have the National Minorities Act and we have the Nationality Rights Act of Ukraine. Give me 30 seconds. What's the attitude? And that's why I'd like to, so I'd like us not to turn into a festival, so we have a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers there, and let the Eurovision festivals take part. And here we need to know that we have laws that protect the languages of national minorities, as the Constitution says, part five: languages. You have no right to put only Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u131	Thank you. It was your amendment, it was counted. Do you want us to vote on it? Let's vote. Let's put to the vote 311 an amendment to the request of the German National MP. Please, in shape. We'll put it in the committee's office for confirmation. [[11:13:35]] For-28 The amendment is rejected in the way it was accepted by the committee. And the Deputy Prime Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, who was mentioned in an offensive form during the speech of the National MP, demands the right to a rep. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u132	Not you, regionals, tell me where to be and what to do. Your chief Janukovic stole the country, invited the Traveling Forces here, and fled. Your Prime Minister, Azarov, stole the country and fled. The prosecutor of Pshonka stole and fled. And now you will teach us all how to adopt the Ukrainian Language Law. In three days, you have not formulated any of the amendments normally, so I have advice for you: take off all your changes, don't make fun of the Ukrainian people, don't slow down the proceedings. You will not be able to break the adoption of the Ukrainian Language Law. It's about Eurobending, because it's so exciting. I'm sorry your friend didn't go to Eurovision. I'm sorry. But as NTU says.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u133	15 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u134	NTU says, "I refused to go to Eurowaves to benefit the gastrolas in Russia." As the ancient Greeks said, the same desires are similar. You're just like the Russian gastrolers! Only your gastrolas aren't on the playgrounds, they're on the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u135	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, and now I want to pay attention, including the Deputy Prime Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, to the same dissatisfaction that we are in violation of the Rules, the procedure. I am very much asking that we do not exchange improper lines, and then we will speed up the review of the Law on the Functioning of the State Language. Let's move on to the repairs. According to the amendments, respectable colleagues, no offensive replicas. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Colleagues exchanged their thoughts. Exchanged thoughts. The law will be passed, there is no doubt that the hall has the potential for this. And we're moving on. 317, Kishkar. Please. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, there was a lot of emotion in the room. 316th. Babak, please. It was considered editorially. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u136	Mr. Chairman of the Committee, it is written that my amendment, 316, has been taken into account editorially. In fact, my proposal was to exclude the requirement to use national language at work meetings, particularly in state-owned utilities. Because it's a work meeting, and it's a very difficult thing to do, but they can use, let's say, working groups can use this standard as a rule. to create conflicts. Because if a brigade guy says to a locksmith, "Get a handle on the crane" in a different language than a government language, you could say it's also a work meeting, a paper with an employee. And in order not to create conflicts, where maybe a certain official has some kind of dissatisfaction with an employee, and they'll use this rule just for such conflicts and situations, my suggestion was to exclude the phrase "work meetings" from the requirement not to create conflict situations. You wrote that you considered it editorially, but unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u137	Finish up, please, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u138	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u139	See, we've really taken most of what you're talking about, in editorial terms, part one and part three. In the case of work meetings, this standard is not really taken into account. If we vote now, we still don't vote. We've fixed it for ourselves. Let's put this to a vote when the room is full. We're going to go back to the right and figure it out, and then we're going to talk about it. Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u140	Are you satisfied with such an explanation, dear colleague? He is satisfied, but there is a requirement for the People’s Deputy Papiev, who has come to the fore with a request for 311 amendments, which we are currently discussing. I'll remind her. Mr. Papiev, I hope you just heard the discussion. There's an offer. You're still betting on confirmation. I'm betting on full confirmation, and the committee has taken it into account editorially, in full terms, at the request of Papiev's National MP to vote for confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. This is about 316 Mrs. Babak's amendment. Please support her. [[11:18:56]] For-27 Let's move on. 317, Kishkar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I'm going to insist that we get confirmation in 317 because the people in charge of the rule of law and the heads of the educational, medical and municipal institutions of state and municipal property must speak the national language. And in commenting on Mr. Vice Prime Minister's allegations, I take into account his decision yesterday's government meeting. So your progress back is one step forward and ten steps back. This is about the Ukrainian Law, more specifically, the draft Law on complete general secondary education, where you do everything to destroy Ukrainian language as a fundamental principle of national security. Look over there. Go to meetings and stand up for the Ukrainian position, not sit here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u142	Thank you. Are you insisting on a vote of 317? I'm putting her to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we are discussing a law that should unite the session room rather than fight. Don't shout. Please vote. [[11:20:19]] For-21 Dear colleagues, 21st in favor. Mr. Kishkar, calm down, please, I beg of you. And I remind you that laws are passed by Parliament, not by government. If the government makes a bad law, we won't accept it. If the law is right, we'll take it. 20-yes. The correction is being rejected. Next up is 319, Germany. 318, please. Okay, okay, 318th. Papiev, please, microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u143	Thank you. Honourable National MPs of Ukraine, distinguished voters who are watching, I think everyone will come to their conclusion. I'll bring back the minutes of the Bukovin Semium of Austria-Hungary next week. By the way, the official languages were five languages: Russian, German, Romanian, Polish and Eating, and Ukrainian. Russian was. And these protocols were conducted without any translations, and everyone understood each other. By this law, you're returning Ukraine to the past century, not the past century, to the past, to the time of Germany in the 33rd year. I would like very much not to violate the constitutional rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens who are Romanians and Hungarians, Bulgarians, and others. So we insist that you make a confirmation of 318 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u144	Please comment to the committee head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u145	Usually, I'll hold back from commenting, but this rule doesn't apply in any way to Romanians, Hungarians, other Nazis. It refers to what was suggested, how many foreign participants would have to be in action to translate them. We think that even if there is one, he has to understand everything and he needs to have a translation. That's the whole point of this standard. My colleague Papiev is very eager to return us to the Austrian Empire or the Russian Empire. But we are an independent Ukrainian state. And we will determine our own laws, defend our own language with respect for all the languages of the national minorities living in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear colleague, you have heard the committee head’s explanation. I want to tell you that it's the opposite of translation. Are you insisting that we vote now and that the translation is not at official action? You insist. Well, I hope the voters are also watching the broadcast and understand what's going on in the session room right now. At the request of the People's Deputy Papiev, I am now putting amendment 318, which was taken into account by the Committee in part, on full confirmation. Please vote. [[11:23:18]] For-54 Correction. Let's move on. That was the 318th amendment. 319. That's your amendment, isn't it, Mr. Germany? 319. You want 320 already, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u147	Yeah, I know, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u148	You don't want yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! I would like to inform you once again that all these norms, more faithfully, these draft norms exclude the fact that they are adopted, because this would be contrary to article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the 11th Constitution. Since the adoption of a national language rule without consideration and regulation at the same time as applying national minority or Russian standards, it is unconstitutional. And that's what the Venice Commission says, that's what European parliamentarians say, and Parliament says that we are where we are going. And we're still insisting on what's behind it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u150	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. I want to remind you that we are discussing the 319 amendment of the German National MP. And I'm very much asking my colleagues to focus on the subject of amendment during the performances. [[B in m in s a l in]] Deputy Prime Minister, I'll find something to say. And now we're discussing the German amendment. And you'll be in the Presidium, running Parliament. And I don't need your advice yet. Don't yell at me. Understand? I ask you to vote on 320 amendments. And please make comments in English. If you are already making comments, make a point in the national language. Okay? 319 revisions. I'd like to make a statement. You're not in the State Department -- making presidious remarks in Russian. [[B in m in s a l in]] It doesn't start, it starts. And it's over. [[11:25:36]] For -14 14. With that outcome, we voted on the amendment. Let's move on. Next up is 322. Germany. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's how they called me, I didn't hear it. Now 322. Please, the German microphone. Don't shout, and I'll hear better what's going on in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u151	20th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u152	No, 322. Please, Mr. Germanko. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. German has a microphone on and he can tell the microphone what he wants to say. You don't have to yell loudly at everyone and together.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u153	Honorable colleagues do not need to make noise about why we are so concerned about this law. And on that point, I want to say to Mr. Vice Prime Minister, not "awesome," as he said here, he's the man supported by the people of Eurowachen. First of all, we want to know who will pay 130,000 euros for this breakup and for the breakup.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u154	Thank you. Please identify yourself on this amendment. I remind you of the rule of the Rules (Article 120(5)) that we should go solely to the body of each amendment, not to the information about the Euraculation. Who wants to write a bill on Euroworking, please, after the language law, we will then consider the bill on Euroworking. Please identify the 322 amendments and move on the body of the amendments. Colleagues, the less you scream, the better I'll hear what's going on. Everyone teaches the Rules of Procedure, except they don't follow it. [[11:27:23]] For-9 Next up is 323rd National Deputy Germano. 323rd National Deputy Germano.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u155	I don't hear anything like that. I don't know who.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u156	Please, microphone to the German National MP. Now, I've already given my word to Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u157	No, I don't. I've got a microphone on. Please turn it off or they'll hear it in Eurovision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u158	Thank you. Amendment 323 - again, according to the author, about Eurobending. Vote, please. We're on our way. [[11:28:19]] For-7. The Eurovision didn't go through. Let's move on. 325 amendment, National Deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u159	This is already article 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u160	Please, National Deputy Germany, give me your word. Three hundred twenty. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u161	What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u162	325th. Three, two, five. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u163	It's 325. All right. The question is about part two of this article. Still, a new edition is proposed, from the fact that respected colleagues cannot regulate this law without exception, relationships, and communication. They are people who have an absolute natural right to their native language. And that's why you enter and call. Please tell us where our native language ends and where.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u164	Finish, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u165	The standards of the Ukrainian language begin, who will determine it? And that's why we're asking our editor to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u166	Please comment to the committee head. No comment. Thank you, Your Honor, for coming back to discussing the body of the bill and the texts of the amendments. Thank you so much for this. And I'd like you to identify yourself for Amendment 325. Please, colleagues. And thank you all so much for coming back to the room. Now, clearly, what we're talking about is we're not going to miss the revisions, and we're going to talk about what they're about. [[11:30:16.]] Z-11. The correction is being rejected. Next up is 326th National Deputy Boyko. Please, ma'am.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u167	326 the law proposes a part of the second article 10 to be edited as follows: "The authorities of the State, the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the authorities of local self-government form draft legal acts and legal acts of individual action in accordance with the standards of Ukrainian legal terminology. The standards of Ukrainian legal terminology define the central body of executive authority in the field of education and science." The committee proposes that such powers be given to the National Commission of State Language Standards. However, is there a contradiction to the standard already established by the committee in part three of article 7 of this law and part one of article 64 of the Education Act, which gives such powers to the Ministry of Education and Science? Please, I would like to hear and submit this amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u168	To the vote, because it wasn't accepted by the committee. Please explain why this amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u169	The committee believes that language standardization is not a function of the Ministry of Education. This has to be done by another body, and the National Commission on Standards, which is introduced in this law, is the body, so this amendment has been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u170	Thank you for your clarification. Please identify 326 amendments. [[11:31:54]] For-12. The correction is being rejected. Next up, 327th National Deputy Germano. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, our proposal for law enforcement, including the Law on National Minorities, is now in force. Legally speaking. In the Declaration on the Rights of Nationality, we suggest that we write that where people who own property live compactly. and their mother tongue is different from that of the Ukrainian State, and their right to the realization of the natural right to language must be ensured. And how can documentation be conducted in these territories in a language that people do not understand or understand fully? Notice, you're writing "right-hand character." What is "individual acts and legal acts"? Clearly, they have people living in areas, in their dialects.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u172	Thank you for clarifying the text of your amendment, the very essence of your amendment. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify for 327 amendments to the German People's Deputy. I'd like to make a statement. It's very easy to determine when we hear the contents of the amendment. [[11:33:33]] For-12. Thank you very much. 12-yes. Let's move on. 328 revisions. He urged the People’s Deputy Papiew to give him his word, and he demanded confirmation. Please, Papiev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u173	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I have just learned that the Romanian and Hungarian societies in Ukraine have submitted a corresponding application to the European Union Mission in Ukraine regarding the fact that this law, which is currently being considered, in their view, is one that violates the constitutional rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens, which violates the 20th article of the Constitution of Ukraine. And they urge us not to vote and not to support it. So I'm asking you to put amendment number 328 on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is the amendment of the national MP Chubarov. Mr. Refate, please explain the correction. Because. 328. An amendment, because in the course of the presentation of the People’s Deputy Papiev, who demanded a word for confirmation, did not explain the substance of the claims to this amendment, but did have a different text. 328. Please, let me give the committee's head a word and you'll find this amendment. Please, 328th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u175	The amendment of colleague Chubarov's committee is taken into account in an editorial manner, and we will continue to work to protect the language of indigenous peoples and national minorities in another law that we are preparing if representatives of the Opposition Block do not prevent us from breaking the adoption of other laws that protect the language of indigenous peoples and national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u176	Please correct the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u177	Thank you very much. Look, I'm taking a conceptual approach from the committee and a distinguished reporter. When we write the Law on the Languages of Indigenous Peoples and National Minorities, it is clear that in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, where its indigenous people are the Crimean Tatars, all the acts are normative and other national authorities, they have, at the same time as the national language, also to be issued in the language of the indigenous people, we will write it in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear Mr. Papiev, you are satisfied with the explanation, are you opposed to these acts being written in the language of the indigenous peoples? Please, the head of the committee insists for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u179	Yes, I still want to insist that the amendment taken into account by my colleague Chubarov says that in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol acts should also appear in Crimean Tatar language as the language of the indigenous people. Obviously, the committee supported the amendment in an editorial way and fixed it. Obviously, people who are enemies of the Crimean Tatar people and the general population of national minorities want this not to happen. Thank you. And in the extra law, we're going to write these guarantees out completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u180	Thank you. At the request of the People's Deputy Papiev, I am making an amendment to the 328th National Deputy Chubarov, who was considered editorially, for confirmation in full measure. I'd like to make a statement, colleagues. [[11:37:08]] For-48 48-yes. Let's move on. Pisarenko, please, the National MP requires the word for amendment 329. 329 is an amendment by the People's Deputy of Ribczynski, which has also been edited. Please, Mr. Pisarenko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u181	Thank you. First of all, I don't know why, but you violated my right to 321 amendments, and I asked her to put it all together and discuss it. What I'm saying is that when we do this in law, it's not about who, who, who, who, who, who, for which citizens, we have all citizens, are the ones who are now thinking about how they're going to live by this law. But there are certain things that we can put into this law if it comes out normal to the end, even though I think it's unlikely, judging from everything that's going on right now. And when I talked to you about the language of business, I said, let's just say that we're going to have government officials study English as a language of foreign business communication. Because why do you have officials who won't know English and who won't be able to continue working with foreign delegations? So I suggested that we establish that Nazcomisisia would provide free English language courses for officials who would then be able to learn and raise their levels. And I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u182	Thank you, finish, please, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u183	And I think that the question of freeness at the expense of the states will allow us to take a certain step in the development of our public service. That's why there was such an offer. I don't know why you didn't want to leave her in the body of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u184	Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to remind you that in no way did I plan to violate your rights, but my duties were violated by one of the sectors when I was shouted so that I could not hear in the mess of where we are. And so by doing 120 of the article, its fifth paragraph, we move in line with the rules proposed by the profiling committee. 330 amendment, People's Deputy Papiev. Please give me your word, but this is Mrs. Konstanovic's amendment. Dear colleague, look, this is your 330th amendment right now. It has been taken into account in an editorial manner and is followed by the National MP Papiew asking for his word. Please, Mr. Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u185	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear colleagues, respected TV viewers who listen to us! You can see how the Supreme Council of Ukraine works, in general, selectively: instead of doing the unification of legislation, so that it is clear and identical for all indigenous peoples, the national minorities of Ukraine, they say in one way or another, "it's a different law that will be adopted for the implementation of the ratified Charter of Regional Languages and Languages of National Less"; and, on the other hand, they write into the body a law that is not the subject of this law. So I have a request that the honour and dignity of Ukrainian citizens, who are Romanians of ethnic origin, who live in the Montenegrin region, in Zakarpatski, in Ivano-Frankiv, in Hungarians, in Hague and others, should not be devalued. I would very much like to read my words correctly. This law humiliates Ukrainian citizens and violates the Ukrainian Constitution. And please place 328 amendments on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear Mr. Papiev, we're at 330, not 328. This is the amendment of the National MP, Mrs. Konstankevitch. She's not insisting on the show right now. So let's move on. 331 Belkova. 332nd, Germany. Please, National Deputy Germany. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, I'd like to read you an active law. It's for the Vice Prime Minister who's threatening something, something. We need to read an active law that we have: national minorities. Article 6. "The State guarantees all national minorities the right to national and cultural autonomy: to use and teach their mother tongue or to learn their native language in public schools or through national and cultural societies." This is the law that indicates that you were obliged to write it, not to set up a wire circus here, so to speak, and to bully.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u188	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want to remind you once again that we need to speak on the body of the amendment, and I don't think the room understands the substance of the amendment now. I'm asking you to identify yourself for this amendment, although of course we don't understand its substance. 332th, please correct. Please make up your mind. My colleagues, I think we can get more votes for our amendment by informing us of its essence. Well, you can see that. [[11:42:13]] Z-11. 11 for, and more, I'm sure if they understood. 333 revisions. Yes, Mrs. Boyko, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, I will not insist on her vote because she is taken into account editorially, but, nevertheless, she continues our discussion about whether all forms of ownership of enterprises, institutions and organizations in all forms of ownership should be used in national language. It may be necessary to develop a myth that enterprises will use a language other than Ukrainian, and then state-owned enterprises will not be able to communicate in another language as Ukrainian, or how communication will be improved, if different languages are available, different approaches to the use of Ukrainian as a national language. This is for discussion, but we don't put it on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u190	Thank you. You just re-explained your vision of the ideology of the law. Let's move on. The 338 amendment is the amendment of the German People's Deputy. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u191	I would like to emphasize once again that our proposals relate to taking into account the rules of the Constitution and foresaw in these norms the natural rights to the use of native language by people, if that goes, where they live compactly. How can that be? And look, they write that. That people should talk to the principal in the language that the director speaks! You know what.? And that's why we're asking you to support our amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u192	Thank you for explaining your correction. Colleagues, please identify yourself for Amendment 338. Please be sure. [[11:44:19]] For-12. Thank you. You see, when there is an explanation of the amendment, more votes for it: 12. 12. This confirms the wisdom of the Ukrainian Parliament and the Rules. Let's move on. The next is 339 amendments, 339 amendments now, that's Mrs. Boyko. And we're moving on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, 339 revisions. The fifth part of article 10 reads as follows: “The authorities of the State, the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the authorities of local self-government, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property shall take into account documents drawn up in the State language, in addition to cases defined in the procedural codes and in this law.” Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u194	Please explain 339 amendments made by the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u195	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Helen, you can see how different the debates in this room are unfolding because someone is standing in your position, I understand them, someone else is in the position of a colleague of Bilkov who has spoken and approached. We'll discuss how to do this. Because the amendment is essentially aimed at extending this article to subjects of private law. This article and the chapter are regulated, this article, which we are currently talking about, regulates the use of national language only in areas where the State or the local community is an employer and therefore is able to set requirements for the work process. As for private businesses, there is a separate article for them, and this chapter deals only with legal persons of public law. And when we talk about the rights of a private right person, there are some of your suggestions included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u196	Thank you. Mrs. Boyko doesn't insist on voting. He insists. Thank you for explaining your amendment and for your compliance with the rules of the Rules. Thank you for clarifying the position committee. And please, colleagues, on this amendment, 339 amendments. [[11:46:24]] For-26 The amendment is not accepted. 340 repairs. There's no insistence. Are you insisting? People's MP Skork. A microphone, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u197	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman, for your word. I would like to draw the attention of the presiding officer to a permanent violation of the Rules. She manipulates her right as headman: interrupt someone, not interrupt someone. When the vice-premier spoke, I must say that the vice-premier was speaking on the subject of the bill. Absolutely not on the subject of the bill. And as for the man who won the Eurowagon -- Mrs. Maruv -- people voted for it, she's not someone's friend, as Mr. Vice Prime Minister said, which, I think, offends the people who voted for it. Requesting confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, we will now give the floor to Mr. Chubarov, who is the author of this amendment. In particular, I will note as presiding that I, first of all, thank all those who make remarks in the national language. And once again, I will point out that I have followed the rules of the Rules, requiring MPs to address the Presidium exclusively in national language, and also to follow the text of the amendments, not on political information and not on Eurobending. Europlacing is not the subject of today's debate. Please, Mr. Chubarov, 340 revisions. You're the author of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u199	Look, I'll try to explain it to some of my colleagues again. It's the only place. The only place is Crimea, the only state is Ukraine, where the Crimean Tatars as the indigenous people in Ukraine can communicate with the authorities of the state alongside the state language in their own language. And that's why I tried to write these standards in a fairly correct form, which is if they are. "In the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, local authorities, state and municipal enterprises. – I miss – they're looking at documents written in national language or Crimean Tatar language.".. It's a small percentage of the Crimea population, and it won't burden anyone. People will know that. In national language, but it is not excluded that he will use his language as the language of the indigenous people. Thank you for taking this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u200	Thank you very much for your clarification, Mr. Chubarov. At the request of the people's representative of Skorak, I'm putting 340 amendments on full-scale confirmation. It was considered editorially. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:49:42]] For-28 Let's move on. 341 Amendment, National Deputy of Germany. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, I fully support the offer of Chubarov, which I have made here, I am grateful to him that he proposes to introduce a norm, a principle that all those who live in compactly have a language identification, they have the natural right to use it. But I don't see what the difference is: yes, the Crimean Tatars -- no, they need to be given unless it's even established that they're indigenous peoples, but it's a question of nationality. And because how can you distinguish Crimean Tatars from Hagues, from Belarusians, from Poles, who also live compactly on many parts of our large planet Ukraine? That is why this principle needs to be upheld. That's what we're making, we're making a proposal that we should use standards. No international audit committee will pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u202	Please identify yourself as correct. 15 seconds, finish, please. Mr. Germanko, 15 seconds, finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u203	I want to remind you that there is no recurrence of criminal responsibility for declarations. And then you'll remember that in a gallery somewhere, as we're called, Germany sat and warned. We've said that we can't accept it, it's not constitutional, it's even more shameful and unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u204	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to make a determination for 341 amendments. [[11:51:50]] For -8 The correction is being rejected. The next is 342 amendments, the National MP, Mrs. Boyko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u205	Rule 342 provides for part six of article 10 to be edited as follows: "State authorities, authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and authorities of local government, enterprises, institutions and organizations of all forms of property in correspondence with addressees outside Ukraine may use a language other than state language." Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u206	Thank you. Will the committee be clarified?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u207	No, it's not. This is in another chapter as well as a colleague’s previous case.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u208	Okay. I see. The committee argues that this amendment was rejected only because its idea is included in another chapter of the bill. At the same time, Mrs. Boyko has the full right to ask the Hall to support this amendment. I'll put her to the vote, 342nd. [[11:52:56]] For-25 The amendment is not accepted. Next up is 343rd. Sevrukov, please insist, 343rd. It was taken into account by an editorial committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u209	Yeah. Thank you. Thank you for finally getting my word. What I want to say in general is that in this article: the 9th, the 10th, when we're talking about and so emotionally often we're discussing issues related to documentation in public institutions, communication, now we're going to get to 348 people's responses, which might relieve the tension if you, Mikola Leonidovich, explain a little bit, and what is the responsibility, how will control and responsibility be exercised. Because I think it's more of a declarative thing, and we break the spears, we delay the time, and we can work calmly, we can work further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u210	Thank you very much. Please answer about documentation and responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u211	Thank you. Thank you, Comrade Sevrukov. Well, we're going to have a whole chapter on responsibility and we're going to discuss it and explain it. The law clearly defines all of this. I just want to say that this is only an administrative responsibility and only in cases where there is a deliberate violation of the law, so that it does not frighten anyone. This will certainly explain where the whole chapter will be explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u212	Thank you. I mean, it's wonderfully real. We have very different references here from the community to monitor how the bill is being considered, and there is a fair desire for us to adopt this bill as soon as possible. At the same time, I think in this room those conscientious national MPs who are now taking part in the bill discussion, for which I thank my colleagues, that they are not walking this session day, but working conscientiously, pay attention to these colleagues. These are very large dignitaries who care about the development of the Ukrainian language. Actually, I think we have a good chance of a lot of speculation on the subject of this law now. When we hear both questions and the professional answers of the committee head, who represents the committee's position. Let's move on. And the next is 346 amendments, National Deputy Germany, please. Please, Germany, 346th. And then he came back, and then he was the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, look at Mr. Chubarov's 346th and 347th, thank you for this amendment. They're almost identical, identical. But it's a national minority of the Crimean Tatar people, and we're talking about all national minorities. And we admit, read article 11 of the Constitution: Ukraine is a Ukrainian nation where national minorities have the same rights as the state. So tell me, what difference does it make? I want to ask the rapporteur why he sees that this proposal is not taken into account, but is taken into account by Mr. Chubarov, who. He's asking the right question. People have the right to use the natural, natural, mother tongue. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u214	Thank you. I'm requesting a comment from the committee head on the 246 amendment. And thank you, Mr. Germanko, for the highly appreciated amendments made by Mr. Chubarov. It's just that it doesn't make sense to beat them up. There's this dissonance here, you know?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u215	Well, the difference between your colleague and your offer and your colleague Chubarov's offer is that you're talking about so-called regional languages where you don't understand what you're talking about. A colleague of Chubarov speaks of the language of the indigenous people, the Crimean Tatar who lived in Crimea and continues to live on his own Fatherland, has no other Fatherland. No one can take care of this nation. The Ukrainian State for Crimean Tatars is as native as for Ukrainians. So obviously we are protecting the rights of the Crimean Tatar people, but we are also protecting the rights of all other national minorities living in Ukraine. As for regional languages, it's an attempt to destroy Ukraine, an attempt to make people communicate in various parts of Ukraine, as in the construction of the Tower of Babel, in different languages in misunderstood territories, an attempt to destroy the role of both Ukrainian and Crimean Tatar languages, and Hungarian, Romanian languages, other national minorities that we will all be protecting together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u216	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm asking for 346 amendments. She was introduced by the author, the national deputy of Germany. And we heard the committee's position. I'm asking you to be sure. [[11:57:42]] Z-11. The correction is being rejected. The next one is 347. Please, microphone to People's Deputy Chubarov. And then Papieuvo, because the People's MP Papieuve requires us to put in for confirmation. To the author of the amendment first, please, Mr. Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u217	Look, dear colleagues, I have great respect for all the ethnic communities of Ukraine. At the same time, I'm very sorry when you're opposed, when we're considering this law, the languages of the indigenous peoples and the languages of the national minorities or the so-called regional languages. There is no language of national minorities in Ukraine, which as a language would not be cared for by a state that is ethnically identified with this national minority, whatever Hungarian, whatever is almost Haguean, we have Hagausia in Moldova. But when it comes to Crimean Tatar, well, the only state, the only place is Crimea, Ukraine. And that's why we're devoting native languages, including Crimean Tatars. And I'd like you to get out of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u218	Thank you. Mr. Papiev, please have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u219	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's almost now confirmed that what I've said before is not possible in the law of Ukraine when you write it: first, to violate the Constitution of Ukraine; and secondly, to make selective articles that are subject to a completely different law. Reporter, you'll still be able to determine whether we're settling this with a separate law, that is, the languages of national minorities and indigenous peoples, right? Are we writing them into the body of this law? Because you do what you do. By the way, you said, and now Mr. Chubarov gave you the right answer. We have many national minorities that don't have, let's say, statehood. So the same hagauses, yes, they don't have a state that can defend their rights and interests. So why do you forget about them? Why do you humiliate them by this law? I would like to mention, however, the oath of the Ukrainian national deputy that we are bound to abide by the Constitution. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, I'm going to continue this meeting for literally two minutes until we've finished our consideration of this amendment. I'm going to remind you that we've got a new 347. And please give me a minute to comment to the committee head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u221	Mr. Papiev, you're talking to me, I'm telling you because you came to me. Now, I understand the position of a German colleague who, along with your colleague Shufrich, has given many rights, I can see that they stand for some position that I strongly disagree with, but you have not given any. You're just creating a demonstration for all of Ukraine, like you're fighting for the indigenous peoples. You sit, you break the law. Take an example from Mr. Nimchenk, from Mr. Shufrich, work and, on the committee, I think we will find compromising ways to take your suggestions into account. And Mr. Chubarov is right: Gaussians even have an autonomous republic. Autonomy in Moldova. The Crimean Tatar nation is one of the great indigenous peoples of Ukraine, which does not have its own state. Therefore, our task is to protect their rights as well as to protect the rights of all national minorities living in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, I have an offer to take a break. I think there's been some communication. You're still insisting that we put confirmation and destroy the right of Crimean Tatars to be able to obtain appropriate documentation in their own language? Colleagues, I have to follow the rules here. I just want to point out that 347 of the amendment of the people's deputy, Chubarov, was taken into account by the committee editorially. Mr. Papiev insists on the whole thing. Put it in full order for confirmation. I'm asking you to be sure. We can't, we can't stop until the vote. Please be sure. Colleagues, please support Mr. Chubarov. [[12:02:08]] For-35 Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that we have considered with you 347 amendments to the bill. And I'm calling it a 30-minute break. At 12:35, we will resume our session. Please return to the session hall at 12:35.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u223	Dear colleagues! 12:35. Time taken for a break is over. And I'm asking you to come into the hall, prepare for the discussion. I would also like to report that a statement has been made. Hold on, Mr. Mikolo. A statement came from two factions, "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front." But they're willing to replace the application with a stand-off. And that's why I'm giving the floor to Yuri Berezi. Three minutes, two factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u224	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! You know, right now, my speech will be dedicated to Ukrainian volunteers. And so interesting, so interesting is the coincidence that the impurity spoken of by the Chief of the Supreme Council, the impurity, the fifth column, is missing. And that's why I'm not surprised, that's normal. Dear colleagues! Dear Brothers and Sisters! Dear volunteers! Dear volunteers! All those in 2013 at Maidan, 2014 at Maidan, and from Maidan to war, representatives, better representatives of the Ukrainian nation, better representatives of the Ukrainian State, took up arms and began to cherish the victory. When the country, when the state was like a ruin, when the Eastern beast thought: all, it would come -- and it would take away, just as Crimea had taken; it would come and dictate its conditions for the creation of a new empire -- the volunteers came out. They did what the authorities could not do. They protected the country, sometimes at the cost of even their lives, sometimes at the cost of their health, but they got up and left, they got up and did, and they didn't just do -- they created preconditions for the creation of a new independent Ukrainian state. Honor and gratitude to all Ukrainian volunteers, honor and thanks to all Ukrainian volunteers! And it doesn't matter if it's a girl who's been sewing or collecting or drawing drawings and handing over pictures to a Ukrainian soldier to the front, or whether it's an entrepreneur who's been making his own profits to make the soldier wear clothes and shoes, or whether it's a grandmother who's retired, but they were big Ukrainians, you're all big Ukrainians. I know today, on this holiday day, I want to say hello to all of you again, say good health and say, you know, the war isn't over yet, and the fifth column is trying to raise its voice here, but I want to welcome you with another win. Today, yesterday, during a meeting of the Minsk Group, the Ukrainian State finally.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u225	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u226	I emphasize that, I put it out, and I've made demands that the fulfilment of the Minsk conditions is the return of the Crimea, and there are no other options for the empire. Crimea will be Ukrainian, it will be Ukrainian and Tatar, as it is and should be, "Moscow boot" won't be there. I want to thank the faction of the People's Front, the faction of the BPP, personally Arsenija Yatsenyuk for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u227	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Yuri. We must be sure that victory will follow us and no one will break the Ukrainian spirit, the spirit of victory. We will deliver Donetsk, Lugansk, and Crimea. So, colleagues, we're continuing our consideration of the draft Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language. And I invite you to the rostrum of Michael the Prince, head of the committee. Please be prepared for discussion by the right-wing authors. So we ended up at 347. We're going to 348 revisions. Does the author insist on 348 revisions? Don't insist. 349, Branzovich. Don't insist. 350th, Head. Don't insist. 351, Romanowski. Don't insist. 352. Don't insist. 353rd. Don't insist. By the way. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to point out that I have a list of the rights they gave, but they're not in the hall, so I can't give them a word, because they're just not in the hall during the discussion. Because they're literally just to make you understand that you've given the entire list of right-wings, and that's why we're not in the hall -- we're not calling them. 353rd. 354th. Don't insist. 355th. Don't insist. 356th. They insist. Branzovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u228	Thank you, Mr. Head. I insist on voting because it is not included in the stage. Because minority languages and other languages are two different legal categories. Therefore, I ask for part two of article 11 to be edited as follows: “In the trial, another language may also be used than the national language or minority language, in accordance with the conditions laid down in the Ukrainian procedural codes and in the laws (laws) of Ukraine, which regulates (rules) the rights of national or linguistic minorities and indigenous peoples of Ukraine.” Under a minority language agreement, Ukraine must comply with its obligations under Article 9 of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities and be set at a level not lower than those laid down in previous legislative acts. In accordance with the requirements of article 22 of the Constitution, when adopting new laws or amending existing laws, the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms cannot be narrowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u229	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u230	This amendment is partially taken into account. In fact, the amendment lists how issues of language are regulated by procedural codes and by the Courtship Act. Thus, the committee added to part two of the reference to the Judicial Law. In a part of the reference to the Law on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and the Natsminin, the amendment was rejected by the Committee because procedural issues can only be regulated by procedural codes, and the issue of minority issues cannot be regulated by this law at all, since it is the Law on State Language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u231	Thank you. It was 356 to make sure I wasn't wrong, wasn't it? So I'm voting on amendment 356. Who supports this revision. Demands that the author be fully accounted for, right? - it's partially accounted for. Who's in charge of supporting her fully, please vote. [[12:43:40]] For -8 The decision is not taken. I call every turn. 357th. 357th, Pisarenko. Don't insist. Okay. Turn on the Pisarenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u232	Thank you. These are the remarks we've been talking about. As far as I'm concerned, it seems to me that we could link to the international legislation that we're going to refer to, it would change the degree of tension that exists. And we would say that, in any case, we will apply, including looking at the rights that we have under the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages and Minorities, and on National Minorities, and on the ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities and other legislative acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u233	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u234	For reasons related to the previous amendment, it is taken into account in an editorial way. In fact, the law lists how issues of language are regulated by procedural codes and by the Court of Justice Act. The committee therefore considered, adding to part two of the reference to the Law on the Judiciary, and writing, sorry, procedural codes in the Law on State Language, well, from our point of view, would be wrong. That's why we've taken it into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u235	I'm voting on amendment 357. The committee counted it in part. The author insists that it be taken fully into account. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:45:25]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Next, 358th. Don't insist. 359th. Don't insist. 360th. Don't insist. 361. Don't insist. 362. Don't insist. 363rd. Don't insist. 364, Berreza. Don't insist. 365th. Don't insist. 366. He insists. Please, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u236	Thank you. It's about professional legal aid. The law provides that it is a national language. We suggest that lawyers and those who participate in this process in general be given the opportunity to use another language that will be defined in the legal aid agreement. Because if we're talking about in general that only Ukrainian language, we're going back to what I was talking about when we discussed our previous amendment, it's going to be a non-working norm. Let us conclude that a lawyer can determine with his client what language they will communicate and provide assistance. Because a client is not always a person who speaks Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u237	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u238	Dear colleague Pisarenko, since we have taken into account the previous amendment of the national MP Borislav Bereza, 364, who proposed that part of the fourth article 11 of the bill be excluded, we were unable to take this amendment into account, because in fact we did the same thing, by excluding this article, considering the amendment of Bereza. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u239	Thank you. So I'm going to vote 366. The committee rejected her, stressing that she was included in 364. So whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:47:46]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. 367th. Don't insist. 368. Don't insist. 369, Lubin. Turn on the microphone, please. The watermelon.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u240	Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs! Well, first of all, I'd like to thank you for having taken my 369th amendment into account. And I want to use this moment to read a poem from a Ukrainian writer, Lesi Ukrainiana, and I want to go to all the national MPs and say that the very main weapon of the national MPs is the word. "The word why you're not as hard as a scream, What will be so clear in the midst of the battle? Why aren't you a sharp, ruthless sword, Is he the one who's making the head out of his head? But thou shalt shed blood from my heart, But you will not pierce an enemy’s heart with a wedge. I'm going to sharpen, I'm going to drain the weapon of the cross, How much strength will I have and the craftsman, Then I'll put her on the wall. Others to comfort, to my sorrow. My word, you're the only weapon. We shouldn't both be killed! Perhaps in the hands of unknown brothers You'll be the best sword on earth. A dirty wedge against the iron of chains."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u241	Ten seconds. 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u242	Thank you. I want to say that by using what both the Bible and the English texts sound like in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u243	You don't insist on voting, do you? And comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u244	I've got it covered.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u245	Yes. 370. Don't insist. 371. Don't insist. 372. Don't insist. 373rd. Don't insist. 374th. Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u246	I want to say that this amendment, by the way, which is given by colleagues from Freedom, is very appropriate. And it is the conduct of documentation in the Armed Forces of Ukraine that is, in particular, the dominant. That's usually the need, as some of our military said, that they could identify each other in the English language they spoke. This is edited and supported by the committee. And he wanted to finish his statement by saying to the great Ukrainian, Les Tanjuk, that it was impossible to destroy the Ukrainian language just as it was to seal Niagara. So the state of language in the Armed Forces is a priority for our security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u247	Thank you. I take it you don't insist on confirming this amendment? Don't insist. Thank you, you just expressed your support for this amendment, which was, I'll remind you, taken into account in the committee's drafting. The next amendment is 375. This is an amendment by the people's MP Musia, and it was also partially taken into account. The author insists on the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u248	Dear National Deputies! The honourable head of the committee! Thank you for the partial count. Of course, most are included there. But there's a very important moment that these separatist forces are taking advantage of, that they're sitting here in the Ukrainian Parliament, and they're always talking about Russian-speaking soldiers who are saving Ukraine and so on and so forth. What's the point? It's about out-of-the-book communication. And I think it's just increasing this norm and putting it in the form of extra-legitimate communication as if. Then the law would be taken fully into account, and it would strengthen Ukrainian positions in the Ukrainian army in the fight against the Moscow-based enemy of old age. So please, or comment, or maybe consider, when there's still a preview, just as far as extra-legitarian communication is concerned, it's completely taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u249	Thank you. And I'm asking for a comment from the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u250	Thank you, Your Honor. As you rightly pointed out, your proposal was included in the preceding article and in this article. And when it comes to the communication of military officers outside the register, most of the votes were not found on the committee, so it was not counted, that is, part of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u251	Do you insist on voting? You insist. Then I ask you to put this amendment in full scope, as the author suggested. I'm reminding you that the committee only considered her in part. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:52:55]] For-37 The amendment remains with the committee. The next amendment is Washunik, 376th. Please, Mr. Vasjunik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u252	Thank you. This law suggested that education and discipline in the Ukrainian Armed Forces should take place in the national language. But since the committee has taken my amendment more widely into account, I would like to thank the committee for clearly promoting the use of Ukrainian in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Thank you. I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u253	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Igor. And indeed, we thank the committee for carefully redrafting the bill for the second reading. The next amendment is 383, Osuhovsky. Don't you insist? 383rd. Oh, no? Thank you. 385th, Kishkar. Please, your amendment. Declined, you don't insist either. 386th, Musius. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to pay very close attention to this amendment. It is about narrowing down and following, unfortunately, the Ukrainian language in communicating with our police or our law enforcement agencies with our citizens. You write in the final edition that with someone who doesn't understand the national language. Tomorrow all these separatists will tell you, to the law enforcement authorities, that "We don't understand your Ukrainian language." In fact, my point is that only foreign citizens can fail to understand Ukrainian and Ukrainian citizens cannot use it. So please don't do the Fifth Column favor and leave. And for confirmation. not for confirmation, but to take the amendment fully into account and vote. Comment further, please. How can this be, listen?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u255	Thank you. Please, 386 amendments to the National MP Musia, she was rejected by the Committee. And now for the word, please, to the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u256	Well, Your Honor, the point is that if a person in a non-state language screams, there's, "Help!" or "Help!"then the policeman should come to him and help him, not demand to speak to him in a national language. Because the objective of the police is to keep the law and order. Another issue is that, of course, if you are speaking to a police officer in Ukrainian, he is obliged to answer you, as is the case with any other Ukrainian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u257	Do you insist on voting? Help, let's vote. Okay. 386 amendment, National MP Musia. Please make up your mind. [[12:55:58]] For-9 The correction is being rejected. This amendment is rejected. And the next one is 387th, the Guliva People's Deputy. Don't insist. 388, Vasjunika. Please. Oh, don't insist. 389th Anointed One. Please, microphone to the honorary colleague Amazanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u258	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. My amendment is that there's a little misdefined notion of "a person who doesn't understand the national language." I propose not to be a person here, because a person can be a citizen of Ukraine, namely a foreigner and a person without citizenship who does not understand. Because we all know that this can be used, this formulation, not only on the street with some help, but also when it comes to solving, for example, criminal conduct, in courts, in criminal matters, and so forth. And so for today, I would like to make it clear here that it's a foreigner and a non-citizens person who says that I don't understand, so get me a translator and actually delay the process of investigation and, in fact, an interrogation in a court of law. So I would still ask the committee to respond and deprive our law of such manipulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u259	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I just thought there was a foreigner in the hall. A lady came by, who is not a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please. And she approached Mr. Shurma. I ask you to find out that a foreigner came into the session room. Please give me some information about this. If I'm wrong, it is. If this is a co-officer, they'll let me know, okay? And I'll make sure that the outsiders don't walk in our hall. Right? That's right. Now, please comment to the committee on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u260	Dear colleague, these standards apply only to law enforcement. Obviously, only national language can be used in courtship. No one's arguing with that. But this rule applies to the behavior of a lawyer on the street. Because when a law enforcement officer sees a crime, he should not demand to speak in one language or another, and he must do so to stop the crime. That's all that matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u261	Thank you. I was informed that a coworker of the secretariat was in charge of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for this information to our secretariat. And I ask you to identify yourself for the correction that we are currently discussing. This is an amendment, I recall, to the 389th National Deputy of Amazanova. Please vote. Appointing, please. [[12:59:05]] For-25 The amendment is not accepted. Next up, 391. National deputy Lesjuk, please. Mr. Lesjuk, 391 corrections. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u262	Actually, I don't insist. I just want Mr. Nicholas to explain it more clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u263	Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav. The ability to use translators is provided for in part two of this law. So it's included in another part of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u264	Thank you. Amendment No. 392. There's no insistence on a national MP. Amendment 393. Don't insist. Amendment 394. National deputy of Germany. He insists. Okay. 394.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u265	I'm coming back again, my dear colleagues, we have 72 people left, but I think it's necessary to focus once again on the fact that we're not doing norm, look at the hall, and we're just implementing someone's ideological orientation and activity. So I ask you to listen to our proposal and put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u266	I'd like the committee to comment. No comments available. Please vote. You insist on voting, don't you? Please vote. [[13:01:12]] For-12. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 395. People's deputies don't insist. Next amendment number 396. National deputy of Germany. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u267	Germany. We suggest in this part of the article that we do write "use of languages at the crossing of the state border."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u268	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? Please vote. The committee said there were no comments. [[13:01:59]] For-9 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 399. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u269	Dear colleagues, this standard deals with the question of ensuring the free, willful will of citizens. Free, conscious, understandable, are perceived correctly, including a meaningful load of words that may and may be in the elective documents. And that's why we're talking about, in this case, we need to get out of the fact that all voters who live compactly, have a different nationality, have a different place of residence, but compactly, and their motherly language, they have to have all the electoral documents to understand not only the family, but also to understand what they're talking about, to read the same program that's being published during election campaigns. And that's why we're asking you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u270	Thank you. Will there be a comment from the committee? Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u271	It's about election. Obviously, the law establishes that elections in Ukraine are held in the national language, and a colleague proposes that elections be held in many languages. That's the difference. That's why the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u272	Thank you. And please vote. [[13:03:47]] For-13. The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 400. Please, National Deputy Germano.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u273	I'd like to ask the reporter not to twist. Germany does not say that everything is prepared in the language that is in this territory. Germany says that it needs to be deepened in order to provide information for the perception, understanding, and implementation of the standards or obligations set forth in these documents, including documents, agitation, and so forth. And what you're saying here is that Germany is somewhere about not allowing Ukrainian as a state language in elections, well, you're exaggerating. I'd like to return you, but please return to these legislative procedures without political statements from yours. I can do it somewhere, but you can't do it. I'd like you to answer as you are. And that's why there's an editorial, part of the first article.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u274	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u275	I would like to emphasize once again that, in commenting on the preceding article, I said that we believe that elections should be held in English, and this article is called: "The use of national language in the process of elections and referendums." I also said that a colleague of Germany felt that elections should be held in many languages. Its essence is that. He suggested that article 15 put it this way: "Use languages in elections and referendums." So I put the word into the word of my colleague German, without twisting anything. The next amendment concerns the same question, so I ask her to reject it and the committee has not considered it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u276	Please vote. [[13:05:54]] Z-11. The decision is not made. National MP Osuhovski requests to return to his amendment number 395. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u277	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. We believe that it is appropriate to rule out discriminatory powers of an official to determine the language during border customs and other forms of control, since such authorization may lead to the suppression of the state language and the application in the border areas of Ukraine. Please place an amendment on the confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u278	Thank you. If there's no comment, it's simple. Please vote, please state yourself. [[13:06:55]] For the 18th. The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 402, National Deputy Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u279	Dear colleagues, I just want to remind you that this is a referendum, this is about the implementation of powers as the source of the people. And if it's a people and it's multinational, we read article 11 of the Constitution: a Ukrainian nation that is made up of more than 100 nationalities. And because the question is where is the compact residence of people of individual nations or national minorities, of course, all the questions raised in the referendum with explanations and everything else, they should understand that. It's not a herd -- it's the people of Ukraine, and the Nazis have the same, absolutely equal, right to receive complete information in an understandable way. in the full scope of this information, because of the use of motherhood.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u280	Thank you. No comment from the committee. Please vote. [[13:08:29]] For-13. The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 411, National Deputy Germany. [[B in m in s a l in]] You weren't in the hall. Once again, amendment number 411, national MP. [[B in m in s a l in]] 404? Please, the 404 amendment, the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u281	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman. I have a request for the presidency, when you change there, the presiding officers who hold the meetings, and somehow you hand over the documents of the Ukrainian national deputies. I personally made a written appeal to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where I wrote down all the amendments that, I insist, I should be given the floor for discussion and which should be put to the vote for confirmation. And according to my written statement, I ask, I ask and do, and do not violate the constitutional law of the legislative initiative of the Ukrainian National MP. We will have a constitutional application regarding this law, including my reference to the violation of my rights as a representative of the Ukrainian people, whose proposals were not put to the vote. This is, in principle, a very serious violation of the procedure for the adoption of this law. Thank you. And please place on confirmation 404 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u282	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the letter you are mentioning is on the table in the Presidium, and the Head of the Supreme Council has addressed this letter to put these amendments to discussion and confirmation. Unfortunately, you weren't in the room at that time, and that led to your amendments, more loyally, the proposals for the amendments you've made can't be considered, because we can't go back to them without the decision of the national deputies, without 226 votes. If I were to now go back to considering these amendments, it would be a violation of the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] I called it an amendment, Osuhovsky was in the hall, he didn't just hear it when I sounded it. So the Osuhovsky amendment is all right, that's all. Ladies and gentlemen, let's work on the document with good intentions. And if you're tasking yourself with disrespecting the parliamentary process, that's a little bit different. Thank you. Let's move on. Amendment 411, National Deputy of Germany. Please vote. 404th is to be supported in general. 404 is full. I'll go back to your 404 or your third. Please, 404 full-scale amendments, please vote. [[13:12:29]] For-31 For-31. The decision is not made. 404 Amendment, National Deputy of Germany. 403, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u283	403, please specify where to use further. Dear colleagues! For the same reason, we will not waste time to look more quickly, please put in support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u284	Ask for a vote on the 403 amendment. [[13:13:09]] For-13. For - 13. The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 411. [[B in m in s a l in]] 407th, accounted for. 411. Please, National Deputy Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u285	407, please. And then it's going to be 411.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u286	Dear National Deputy Germany, 411th, your amendment, please, in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u287	I'm sorry, I said about 407, don't I have the right to confirm? What is it, I don't understand, Madam Leader.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u288	What it is, I can explain, but I ask the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u289	Thank you. Thank you. As the Rules clearly state, the procedure for voting amendments is determined by the committee and is consistent. After 411 amendments have been announced, after the chairman has announced it, we are considering it. If you want to go back to 407 amendments, the Hall should vote in favour and return. Since you didn't say it in time, we've moved on to 411 amendments, it's now under consideration, and you have the right to speak about 411 amendments. Let us follow the Rules, move in law, come into the Hall on time, do not be distracted or disrupt the consideration of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u290	Honorable National MPs. You're going to be speaking about 411 revisions?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u291	Oh, no? Then we move on to the next 414 amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] 414 amendment, no MP. Yeah? 417th National MP, Germano. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sorry, 414. National MP Branzovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u292	Thank you. Gather your strengths, or there will be a scandal. Article 15 adds to part 6 of the following sentence: "The application of regional or minority languages in the process of elections and referendums is established by law (laws) of Ukraine which regulates the rights of national or linguistic minorities and indigenous peoples of Ukraine." Elections and referendums are one of the most important in terms of the realization of civil rights in public spheres of social relations. In fact, the ban on the use of minority languages in this area is a more brutal violation of both constitutional rights and the international legal obligations of Ukraine. Such regulation is not equal to, or is limited to, the Ukrainian-speaking status of citizens who do not speak or speak the national language in order to ensure their effective participation in these processes, which is a sign of discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u293	Thank you. Is the committee going to comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u294	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u295	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u296	Dear colleague, this law does not regulate the issue of regional languages. In addition, the standard does not regulate the use of languages in the electoral process at all, as suggested. I'm sorry, this is a matter of national minorities. Mr. Papiev, please don't interrupt, because the national issues of the minority, especially the Hungarian minority, are very important. Thank you. So this law does not regulate, as has been said, the issue of regional languages. In addition, the standard does not regulate the use of languages in the electoral process at all, as proposed by the author of the amendment. On the other hand, the committee refers to a new part of the fifth, approved by the committee on the outcome of the review of Amendment 415. Now, please, Comrade Branzovich, pay attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u297	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:17:22]] For -14 The decision is not taken. 417 revisions. Please, National Deputy Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u298	And 16th! Are you kidding me or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u299	416 revisions. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've got 416 in my book. Do you insist on taking full account? Please, National Deputy Germany, 416 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u300	Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you that someone is carrying something out there, something that we can think of. I'm equal to equal, I'm equal to equal, and you see, it counts. And it counts. And what's more, the committee understands that people need to be informed about the elections, about others, if they live compactly and have their ethnonationality, they need to understand what they're talking about. And you admit it here, the committee confessed, and you ignored it because of two standards. I no longer say when it comes to Russian, but what is the basis for Russian - speaking Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u301	Thank you. And please, is the committee going to comment or do we vote? Vote. Please, 416 for the whole, please, totally. [[13:19:00]] For-13. The decision is not taken. 417 amendment, National Deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u302	Dear colleagues, this applies to international relations. I want to remind you a little bit about a story that's younger, probably not fully understood and knows. But we had a European treaty in English for two years, and when we even went to parifing it, we did not even translate it into English. That is why we are asking to support us here and to accept that languages should come out on an international basis. There are no questions here, and we need to get out of this postulate. Where there is, where there should be a Russian-Ukrainian language, we support it and ask for it to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u303	Please vote. [[13:20:18]] For-13. The decision is not taken. 418 amendment, National Deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u304	Dear colleagues, since we are a multinational state, I repeat, we cannot discriminate against national minorities at the expense of another language, they are equal people. And when it comes to the question. When it comes to international agreements that are cross-border relations between nations, how can we not use the language of these people who live there compactly today? I won't go far, take the ruminants, take the Russians. In Romania, 50,000 of them count there. Why do we not count when it goes, when it goes, on a boundary relationship? That's all we say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u305	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u306	Yes, Your Honor, this amendment has been rejected, since the article governs only international agreements. And the enterprises and institutions you mention do not make international contracts, but external economic contracts do not extend to such rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u307	Thank you. Next, please, 422 revisions. [[Noise Nodes]] And 18th, yes, please vote. Please vote. [[13:22:07]] For-7. 419 amendment, People's Deputy Papiew.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u308	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, honourable chairman, you know, I just want to record for the transcript that I personally have made a written appeal to the verdict that I should be given the floor to discuss, and in the next put to the vote those amendments that have been taken into account or taken into account by a partial or editorial committee. I was given a 404 word amendment. After that, my rights as Ukrainian national deputy were violated: the chairman did not give me the floor after 405, after 406. My letter defines these amendments. I believe this is a flagrant violation of the Rules, of the procedure for dealing with the matter. And especially for those who read sometimes laws and regulations, I want to remind them of the requirement of part one of article 119: in the second reading, the laws are dealt with in an article. And I'm addressing the chairman: read this part first and follow the Rules of Procedure. And I'd like you to set up this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u309	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear Watchers Watch the Session! Once again, I would like to point out that the letter mentioned by the People’s MP Papiew came to the fore, and all the amendments mentioned in this letter were to be made. However, he was not in place to discuss these amendments. In view of this, a vote of the national deputies and a vote of 226 for consideration are required to return to the consideration of these amendments. That's the first one. The other one. It is that the legislative process, it has intentions, good intentions, good intentions – the adoption of decisions in the interests of Ukraine and the Ukrainians. And now we have to work with you to make decisions in the interests of this state, not against the interests of this state. I'm talking to those who want to destroy this process. Thank you. Please vote in favour of this amendment. Amendment 419, fully supported. Please. [[13:24:56]] For-22. The decision is not made. 420. Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u310	Yes, thank you. I want to be careful right now, and I ask you not to take this politically, but realistically, yes. This is 420, 421 and 423 then also for confirmation. The point is that the language of working relationships is a national language. The paragraph reads, "No one can be forced to use a language other than Ukrainian and except for cases when they are at work and perform their duties under a contract of employment." So I translate, I translate, that a person may have to use Ukrainian language when he is at work and performing his duties under the employment contract. In other words, you may be required to speak only in English under a contract of employment, that is, in the course of your work. and being at work. If you went out into the hallway to have coffee and, God forbid, talked in any other language, in fact, whoever signed the employment contract with you could break it off later because you spoke the wrong language. Why give such mechanisms that place the cross in general throughout the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u311	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u312	My colleague, first of all, I want to tell you that private relations are not work relationships, so this is not regulated by the law. What does the law govern? Please open the article, see the article. You see, it says, "No one can be forced to use a language other than Ukrainian when they are at work and perform their duties under a contract of employment." That is, if a person wants to speak English, no one has the right to make him speak another language, for it is his right to speak English. It's clearly written in the law. And any attempt to force a person to forget his native language was called colonization, Russification. In order for this not to happen, this article, which is totally democratic, only protects those people so that no one can force the Ukrainians to do anything. Enough of us to force Ukrainians to speak one language or another! Let man choose according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u313	You insist on voting, taking full account. Please. Please vote. [[13:27:45]] For-16 The decision is not made. And amendment number 421. Pisarenko is a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u314	Once again, I apologize, but it's from a working relationship. I want to point out, let's read together again, because you're talking about not forcing, but it's really saying, "No one can be forced to speak in a language other than Ukrainian." So it actually means you might have to talk in English and it's in a working relationship. Well, read it, it's your formulation, which at the end of the day in the final edition. That's why. I'm talking about something else right now. If you're talking about using language in a work relationship is one thing, but what does it mean when you're at work? The man went for coffee. Is this being at work? Being at work. Why do we now limit matters that do not apply to employment relations? If you need an employee to do your job and write some analytical help, that's one thing, and if you want him to even drink coffee and think that he should only speak Ukrainian, there will be problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u315	We voted on this article at all. The point here is that no one can make me speak, me, if I work at work, no one can force you to speak in a language other than English if I want to speak in English. And my conversation with Ukrainian cannot be a basis for repression. Well, let's not repress the Ukrainian population, let's protect the Ukrainians at last. But we've already voted on it. Madam Chairman, let's move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u316	Thank you. Next item. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. Please take full account. I see. I'll make an announcement. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:29:53]] For -14 I'm gonna call it a night. The decision is not made. Honorable National Deputies and Honourable Ukrainians! I want to emphasize again. Yes, I have an application on my desk for a break from two MPs, one faction and one group. And you have to be aware, too, so you understand that you're doing this in order to delay the process. These are your intentions, I want people to know about this, that you're using your right to a recess just to delay the process so that the State Language Act is not considered. Because a statement has been made. [[B in m in s a l in]] 422th, Germany, is the National MP going to comment? Please, National Deputy Germany, comment. 422 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u317	I'm sorry, they said there's a break -- there's a statement. Or is it not necessary to perform?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u318	I haven't announced my break yet. Are you going to report 422 amendments or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u319	I'll speak after the break, which you should give to two groups, well, factions and groups. That's not supposed to happen. I would ask you not to abuse it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u320	We have two corrections left before the end of the chapter. It was I who decided that we would consider these two amendments, and then a break would be announced. Are you going to report the amendment or not? Oh, no? Thank you. Please, 423 revisions. National MP Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u321	Yeah, I think we should finish 22 with our colleague and take a break. But 23rd is the same thing. I ask the head of the committee again, look carefully. I want us to work for the results now. If we just go to someone who understands everything, I won't give anyone a vote, it's so wrong. Let's listen to the voice of reason. I, right now, have deputies who think they're gonna be deputies forever. Well, you won't be deputies forever. You come to work somewhere, you make a work deal with you, here, and then these problems will be with you. So why do you today make this law not work, or work, even against you, and against other people? Let's be careful enough to read what we understand. No one would mind if the Ukrainian language were national and used freely, we are all for it. But there is no need to do what people then say is right by the law, and others do not like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u322	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u323	Thank you. Well, there's always one law that pleases one another, one law doesn't. People who do not love Ukraine do not like these laws, but those who do love them do. So it's a natural process. We're protecting Ukraine, we're protecting Ukraine, we're protecting Ukraine. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-14-m0.u324	Ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, two groups have come to the fore, more loyal than the opposition block faction and the rebirth group. 423 amendment – complete. Please vote and support it fully. [[13:33:33]] For-23 The decision is not taken. And according to the Rules, I'm calling a half hour break. After that, it's actually going to be our regular break from the 2nd to the 4th. So I declare this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council closed. I'll see you at 4:00.
