ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, we begin our work. We've already got a positive -- we're only five minutes late. But let's get started. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Please take your seats and prepare for registration. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[16:09:05]] 350 Ukrainian national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Let's move on to the agenda. Dear colleagues, you have been handed over a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws on improving financial restructuring (registration number 1070). I would like to consider the above-mentioned bill in summary procedure. Please support and vote. [[16:09:51]] For 219 For 219, against 3, held 38. Decision taken. Let us move on to the consideration of the matter in substance. The report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Getmantsev, Danil Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u2	Thank you. Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Bill 1070, which I submitted to the Supreme Council, is being considered. What's this bill about? We have been in operation since 2016, the Financial Restructuring Act, which allows a borrower who is not yet in bankruptcy, but who feels financially insolvent and unable to repay his debts to a financial institution, to apply accordingly for financial restructuring. Within this procedure, a separate procedure, which is temporary, must be carried out in order to preserve the debtor’s debt, preserve his property, and in some way make him well. The act of this law ends in October of this year, so the first step we propose to take is to extend this law for another three years. In addition, it is suggested to take into account those points, those features that have already been observed by the regulator during the previous drafting of the law in that bill that I submitted to the Supreme Council. Well, for example, when it comes to joint financial restructuring, when it comes to a number of interconnected debtors who are connected but have no joint creditors, that is, unrelated creditors. So the document is pretty important to the industry, it's expected. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u3	The word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy of the Dubinsky Alexandre Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u4	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The financial restructuring bill aims at relaunching corporations that face difficulties in servicing loans. The bill in the past was seen as a mechanism for supporting large oligarchs and companies. Now we've looked at it thoroughly, we've worked hard, we've made changes to it that will allow companies that are in debt that can't be settled by way of a vessel, we can't have this bill and we can't have it settled, and we can't have these companies working together, we can't just let them handle the loan, we can't put the interest rate on the loan and the body of the loan, and we can let companies work. Because we're dealing with companies that give between 1 and 2 percent of Ukrainian GDP and just tear them apart, and don't let them get out of the debt that was incurred, including by the military in eastern Ukraine, by the annexation of Crimea, in the devaluation of the bracelet, we can't. So these conditions exist, they have to continue, because the law, the previous law, terminates its operation in October 2019, so we decided to continue it. We've talked carefully to both banks, and to the Ministry of Finance, to the State Tax Office, to the State Fiscal Service, to all the conditions of this restructuring, and we see it as a positive benefit, which is going to have a positive impact on both the recovery of credit and the restoration of confidence in the financial system, and above all, to enable large corporations to continue their work and pay taxes and to keep jobs. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u5	Thank you, Alexander Anatolyovich. Please register by faction: two in favour, two in opposition. The word is given by Oleni Volodymyrni, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u6	Thank you. I mean, this bill has to be supported, because it's kind of another way of stimulating business, and, in particular, small business, medium business. Debt restructuring that didn't come up. For no reason should the business fail to resolve it on its own be regulated in a legislative way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u7	Thank you. The word is given to Ustiny Alexander Yuriyevna, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u8	Please give my word to my colleague Volodymyr the Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u9	Vladimir Volodymyrovich Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, today more than 50 percent of the credits in the banking system are non-working. Most of these loans are loans to the corporate sector and loans to enterprises. But it has happened that not all businesses are truly non-working enterprises and for objective reasons they are unable to repay these loans at the moment, but under certain circumstances they may be able to do so. Appropriately, these are businesses where people, taxpayers, citizens of Ukraine work. These businesses, which may come out of a bad economic situation, must be supported. The imperfection of legislation, to this end, did not allow creditors, i.e. banks, along with these enterprises to create mechanisms for restructuring so that both creditors and the enterprise itself could find a mechanism to repay the loan. This law, which is proposed, addresses these imperfections and helps to increase the number of successful restructurings and, accordingly, to increase the number of enterprises that can work after a difficult economic situation. So what's that going to do? This will, as the previous colleague said, give an additional small percentage to the country's GDP growth, and this will increase the number of pre-trial solutions to the problems and thus reduce the burden on Ukrainian courts. The Voice faction supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u11	Thank you. The word is given to the Feds of Sofia Romanovna, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u12	Fedina Sofia, European Solidarity. Please pass the word to Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u13	Irina Stepanovna Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u14	Mr. Head, respectable colleagues! Bill 1070 is an ideal extension of the Ukrainian Financial Restructuring Act, proposed by the Dustenka team in 2016. In 2014, when military aggression began in Ukraine, about $10,000 remained in the budget. Over the years, the worst situation has been in the financial sector and in the corporate sector. We are pleased that the representatives of the Political Party's Servant of the People support and continue the course taken by the previous authorities to stabilize the State's financial and corporate system. This law had a fixed term of three years, namely, on October 19, 2019, it would become invalid. This time frame was set to assess the success of financial restructuring in Ukraine, compare it with the experience of other states, propose improvements and determine the consequences of the process. The law has certainly produced positive results during these three years. During its operation, 29 financial restructuring procedures totalled over 40 billion dollars. These are dozens and hundreds of preserved jobs in businesses mentioned today by colleagues. Taking into account the high share of non-working loans in the credit portfolio of Ukraine's banking system, as well as the high volume of non-working loans, in fact, in the banks of the public sector, the faction "European Solidarity" understands, knowing the consequences of the positive work of this bill, it understands that its term needs to be extended for at least 3 years. We welcome the fact that we have started looking at this issue now, because we are entering the 2020 budget process. Ukraine had a tough return to the International Monetary Fund, a big return this year, so it's on time. "European Solidarity" will support it in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u15	Let me finish. Thank you. Belkova Olga, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Nevertheless, I am a representative of a faction of full value. And I'd like to have a word with you, as well as with the other factions, for two minutes. I'm not speaking out of motive, I'm talking about the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u17	Stop the time. Olga, we have a procedure: two in, two in, two in. Sometimes it turns out it's Fatherland, sometimes it's another faction, but that's the procedure. I'm adding a little bit of time, but let's still be within the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u18	Thank you. Mr. Head, today we are discussing this bill on various grounds because there is a very important situation in the country with so-called NRLs, those loans that do not work. Most of these loans are concentrated in state banks. Let me remind you that our voters with you are investors of state banks, and we have to do everything we can today to get these banks to work together and to get the money back from all their debtors. That is why we will be supporting Law 1070, which is related to the law adopted by the last cadence that worked for the past three years. The term of his action runs out. But we have already seen that many businesses have not only been able to save jobs, but they have also set up normal volunteer work with banks. As a result, we support this bill. At the same time, we will have, as usual, second readings that reinforce the rights of consumers of banking services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u19	Thank you. Dmitry Valeriovich Lubinets, MP for the Future, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u20	Thank you. The parliamentary group "For the Future" will support and vote in favour of the bill in the first reading. And, indeed, we support this, that the amendments to Ukraine's mortgage and creditor claims laws and the registration of burdens are called upon to define more precisely the point of non-court settlement of the mortgage and so on. That's why we're voting. But we would like to point out that this bill, too, concludes the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration with observations to the bill, which is also not settled issues and certain terms. We therefore vote, but we understand clearly that we need to apply for and seriously address the second issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u21	Thank you. Question completed. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Law (Registration No. 1070) amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the financial restructuring procedure. financial restructuring procedures. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:23:34]] For 302 For -302, versus -0, held -4. Thank you. Decision taken. According to part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut the deadline for the second reading of the bill (registration No. 1070) on amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the procedure for the return of financial restructuring. Please support and vote. [[16:24:20]] For 261 Thank you. For 261, versus - 1, held - 42. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, for your consideration, the proposed draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance (Registration No. 1050). I would like to consider the above-mentioned bill in summary procedure. Please support and vote. 1057, registration number 1057. [[16:25:18]] For 253 For -253, versus -0, held - 37. Thank you. Decision taken. So let's move on to a simplified procedure. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr. Please give me four minutes, because he's both the author and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u22	Thank you for your word. I have the honour to present a bill whose content is quite simple. I'm not even sure I need four minutes to explain. There's only one social contribution, there's a person's income tax, there's a 90 percent tax base that matches. Thus, there is nothing that prevents us from uniting the accounts of these two compulsory payments, thus making life easier for accountants and entrepreneurs. For individuals who are entrepreneurs, including single taxpayers, we anticipate annual reporting, for everyone else we anticipate making a monthly report on this tax. This is the first step in unifying this report. I'm convinced that when the Ministry of Finance and the State Tax Office are ready technically to make this report quarterly, we'll move on to making this report quarterly. In his proposals, the committee made proposals on this point in its conclusion. The Committee's conclusion: to support both the foundation and the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u23	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Please register by faction: two in favour, two in opposition. Greenchuk Oksana Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u24	Good afternoon! Please pass the word Alexius Ustenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u25	Alexius Ustenko, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u26	Good afternoon, dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I want to start with that, first of all, Europe starts with something that's very simple, as little reporting as possible, and it's as simple as possible. The chairman of the committee, in principle, said all he had to say. I'm going to add that this bill, it's designed to ensure further tax reform, and it's really, really going to make the lives of corporate accountants much easier and it's going to make the only report that we've been asked to do. This bill is one that makes life easier for business and improves investment conditions for Ukraine’s future. So I ask everyone to support and vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u27	Thank you. Ustenova Alexander Yuriovna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u28	I give the word to Galini Vasilchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u29	Galina Vasilczuk, Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u30	Vasilchenko!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u31	Vasilchenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u32	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the Voice faction supports the idea of such a bill, because we understand clearly how important it is for Ukraine to simplify business, and this is primarily to simplify conditions and maintain all financial reporting for accountants. The only point to be agreed upon, and we discussed it on the committee, is that reporting on the ECB, it's monthly, and reporting on the PDF is quarterly. And actually, this is where we have to settle the point of cooperation between the DFS and the Pension Fund. In general, we're going to vote "yes" in the first reading and accordingly we're going to ask the authors to elaborate on these points that I've mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u33	Thank you. Tsymbaluk Mikhailovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u34	Please pass the word to a colleague after the Belkova faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u35	Olga Belkova, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u36	Thank you. Your Honor, thank you, I finally got two minutes. It's good. Now from the main one. Now we're looking at a bill that's supposed to improve lives for accountants because they're the first consumers of this bill, and everyone agrees. My committee colleague said there's nothing stopping us from changing our reporting form right now. It doesn't really interfere, I confirm, but why? The Party's "minister of the people" promised to consult the people. And yesterday I carried out this mission of honor, and I asked the accountants whether you needed it or not. In response, I received the following: Not yet, and that is why. It has already been noted that the EU’s report is submitted every month and the TFEU is quarterly. There was a discussion on the committee, and if Mr. Chairman had made a suggestion to do everything in a quaint way, I would have agreed. But it turns out that we're the most difficult report, one of the most difficult ones for all accountants, is that we do it every month. And my accountant writes to me, "Now I'm afraid of my job," because the fines, which are now defined as misreporting, are too big for her. Colleagues, of course, it's your right to press this button today, but I urge you to consult more about who we make these laws for. Our faction holds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u37	Thank you. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u38	Thank you, Your Honor. Deputies for the Future, I do. The parliamentary group "For the Future" will support and vote in favour of the bill. We support that the changes proposed in the draft law aim to resolve the long - overdue issue of combining reporting with a single contribution to the universally binding public social insurance and income tax for individuals into a single report, since the body of incomes and congregations to which reporting and reporting terms are fully consistent. So it's very simple: organ one, reporting, delivery terms the same. And just as we've heard from the committee head's explanation that monthly reporting is a transitional period. As our government authorities are prepared, this report will go to the quarterly, and we understand that in the future, perhaps every year. So this is going to simplify the filing process a lot, make it easier for our taxpayers to live, which is certainly a positive practice for the development of our state, the development of our fiscal bodies. So thank you for that, and we support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u39	Thank you. Last act, colleagues. Prepare to vote. Eugene Nina Petrovna, faction of European Solidarity. It's a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u40	My fellow Members, I would like to stress your attention, however, not to distort the content of the bill and to listen to the professional community and to the professional organizations that lead the professional community. I read from them very many references now in connection with our consideration of these bills today. They're very simple, and really for accountants, what should we start with? It's from a draft declaration to publish it so that accountants can try to compare new and old versions and only then develop the very matrix of the law, so people write to me. Thus, the unification of reporting has become a formality, perhaps only in a convenient way for administration, not for work. I would also like to point out that the tax base of the TFEU and the EU is identical only in terms of wages. It's different in all the other payments. At the same time, the PDF sometimes appears to be behind the location, such as a separate unit, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u41	Let me finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u42	and the rest of the report at the legal person's place of registration. And the European Union is always at the place of registration of a legal person. There are so many subtleties that make it difficult.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u43	Thank you. Question completed. Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (Registration No. 1057). Social insurance and income tax for natural persons. Please support and vote. [[16:35:39]] For 318 For 318 versus 0, hold on to 22. Thank you. Decision taken. Next question. According to part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten the draft for the second reading of the bill (registration No. 1057). Please support and vote. [[16:36:35]] For 258. For 258, against 2, hold 51. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been given a draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to provide a single report on the sole contribution to social compulsory state insurance. State social insurance and income taxes for natural persons. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[16:37:19]] For 258. For 258, versus 0, hold on to 48. Decision taken. The question will be considered by a simplified procedure. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr. Give me four minutes, because he's an author, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u44	Thank you. It's a unique case where I can respond from the second performance to all the moments that occurred during the previous one. Friends, I urge us all to be honest. Honest to each other, honest to the electorate, honest to the accountants, who will, in fact, report quarterly or monthly reports. If we're talking to you about quarterly reports today, quarterly reports are bringing in help for employees who go on specific vacations that go in. We don't need any extra paper-certified tools at all if we're doing quarterly reporting. Moreover, a person who retires in January can only get a pension in May. Because she's going to wait for this neighborhood and wait for the end of the period. So what we have to do is we have to do a monthly report first, and then we have to do a quarterly report when there's a technical possibility. There is nothing to worry about in the monthly report. Because most accountants keep this report, pay the income tax of individuals, twice a month, paying wages twice a month. And the EU has them once a month. I mean, there's no problem at all. They're doing all of this electronically. Press one button, and it's already in tax. We're all already working in electronic systems. This is not a problem at all. As far as the location is concerned. This question was taken into account by the Committee on Proposals. And also as for the test regime, the test period for using this report, I also think that despite a small fine, once again, people need to be relieved of this fine for a period of test use of this report. And we will certainly offer this for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u45	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna, Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u46	I give the word to Jaroslav Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u47	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u48	We will, of course, support this bill in the first reading, because it is a step towards simplifying jobs and accountants and all the businesses that face tax reporting. But here, as in the last bill, I want to support my colleagues with the observation that if we really want to simplify our lives for all of our citizens who do business, it takes a lot of work to work on a committee to work on a mechanism where this reporting is quarterly, not monthly. And then we're actually simplifying, reducing by one report, as a minimum, these interactions with the DFS, and we're actually just implementing what we promise our voters, the combined reporting. So we support, but in the first reading, and in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u49	Thank you. The word is given to Tkachenko Maxim Mikolaiovich, a faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u50	Thank you. Please pass the word to my colleague Alexius Ustenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u51	Alexei Ustenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u52	Good day again! 1072 is a complement to 1057. And it's very good that there is an opportunity to deny to a colleague who told me that it would complicate the lives of accountants and so forth. My position and the position of the committee is what really needs to be introduced in test mode, you have to try to produce the mechanism that's the best, and then we're going to get a really good product. If nothing is done, surely everything can stay as it is. But the accounting community and the financial community personally thanked me very much for considering these two bills. And trying them for many years, they've been asking to do one report, not a bunch of paperwork into different organs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u53	Thank you. Tsymbaluk Mikhailovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u54	Please pass the word to Olga Belkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u55	Olga Belkova, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u56	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, our faction will be consistent in its vote, and we will endure. And that's why. A minority mission, including ensuring that all promises made between first and second readings are kept. I'll remind you, you're talking about simplification today, and the accountants are asking you to do the quarterly thing. We recognize that then there is no way to merge all information about the ECJ correctly. But then let's face it, too, that we're actually forcing accountants to report an extra fine, and as we know from probability theory, the more events, the more likely it is to have harmful consequences. So let's be honest: or we're looking for a method that will completely simplify this reporting for everyone, including those workers who are given personalized data, because they also need information. And on my question on the committee, and where they came from, I didn't get the answers because it was the accountants and the authorities. Where, then, will the employee receive the help of certain authorities? I admit that this is a question that needs to be taken. But I would also like us to put more of the experiments on ourselves, not on those who are forced to do our test-mode instructions today. And if they thank you, of course they thank those who voted in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u57	Thank you. The word is given to Jani Vadimovni Zinkevich, the faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u58	Jan Zinkevich, "European Solidarity." Please pass the word to Nina Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u59	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, we're talking about basic things right now, but we start again from the wrong end, we're adopting laws that are really written by the Ministry of Finance. It's important for the Ministry of Finance to unify this report actually. But in what way is the main thing. I don't know what kind of accountants write you, I'm holding a letter from a professional accounting organization. They say that from a technical point of view, the proposed changes in these two bills will not make things any easier. The reporter has just talked about creating new conditions or improvements in the report once a year. Thus today, current legislation provides that these categories of payers as individuals on a common simplified system of taxation and individuals who carry out independent professional activities are still reported once a year in two reports: the VAT and the military community, or the single tax, and the EU. We don't change anything for them with these bills at all. But now it is also appropriate, just when the military congregation was mentioned. You know that the form of PDF provides reports on the military congregation. These two bills do not say a word, but what happens to the military congregation, and it is closely attached to Form No. 1 of the TFEU. And this unification of the existence of the form itself becomes completely unknown. In fact, the report is given electronically, not in paper. So it's not in the papers that much to wear. And the thing is, if the process itself takes less time, its periodicity, because it's increasing, is going to be equal to the same time that the accountants are going to spend on this report. So I think it's a really good idea. If you work together, not in a reduced mode, but in a committee to create working groups, invite the whole community to hear you and me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u61	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u62	I mean, it's pretty obvious here, you don't have to hide. There's a form, if the Ministry of Finance is offering to do it now, let's bring it to the committee and we'll look at it with the accounting community and we'll take it quickly. This will be done very quickly. But only this way. Otherwise, resentment in society and discontent will be terrible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u63	Thank you. Dmitry Valeriovich Lubinec, with motives. And prepare for the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u64	The parliamentary group "For the Future" will support and vote. Colleagues, I'm reading the conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration: "The decision must be taken as a result of the consideration of Bill 1057." 1057 we supported, voted. So it's absolutely logical to support and vote 1072. But as with our colleagues, there is a note, and we are willing to vote only in the first reading, and we will apply for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u65	Thank you. The discussion is over. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for the first reading on the basis of the draft Law (Registration No. 1072) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to provide a single report on the sole contribution to the general government social insurance and income tax of natural persons. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Vote. Please support and vote. [[16:49:00]] For 317 Thank you. Decision taken. - 317 versus - 0 held up - 18. Let's move on to the next one. In line with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten the draft for the second reading of the bill (Registration No. 1072) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to provide a single contribution to the general government social insurance and income tax. Please support and vote. [[16:49:49]] For 266 For -266, versus - 1, held - 55. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been given a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure the effectiveness of the institutional mechanism for the prevention of corruption (registration number 1029) and alternative (1029-1). I would like to consider the above-mentioned bill by summary procedure. Please support and vote. [[16:50:34]] For the 250. For 250, for 15, for 47. Decision taken. The bill will be reviewed under reduced procedure. The report is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u66	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The bill that we now have to consider is aimed at continuing the initiative of President Vladimir Zelenski of Ukraine to combat corruption. The draft registration number 1029 on amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the effectiveness of the institutional mechanism for the prevention of corruption introduced by the legislative initiative provided for in article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine is defined as urgent. The bill proposes to establish the legal basis for relaunching the National Anti-Corruption Agency. What are we talking about? In 2014, when the Prevention of Corruption Act was passed, all of you remember the sincere expectations of Ukrainian citizens, the professional community relied on the establishment of an independent anticorruption agency, which was designed to produce a government policy to prevent corruption. However, since the creation of this agency, it has never been able to demonstrate effective anti - corruption activities. Moreover, there are several attempts to intervene in the work of this agency, and this agency, in turn, is in conflict with other anti-corruption bodies, and the order of formation of the agency as a college body, although this was with the involvement of a competitive commission, has not achieved the goal that the drafters actually had in mind. President Zelenski proposes to change the agency's order, determine the agency's one-person responsibility, which will be chosen by a competitive commission, more loyally, by an international panel of experts and will be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It is on the head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency that personal responsibility will be placed for the fight against corruption. There is also a wide range of other novelties that aim to improve legislation in this area. Therefore, we ask for support on the basis of both the whole and the vote in favour of this bill by the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u67	Thank you, Feder Volodymyrovich. The speech is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Krulk Ivan Ivanovich on the alternative bill 1029-1. Please. Okay. The word is given to the coreporter of the Committee on Anticorruption Policy of the Krasnosil Anastasia Olegni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u68	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy has considered Bills 1029 and 1029-1 and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a bill of 1029 as a whole, submitted by the President of Ukraine. I want to point out that we've been waiting for this initiative for over two years. For two years, we've been waiting for the National Anti-Corruption Agency to be restarted. Why is this necessary? The agency has been working for three years, and what did it do during this time? NAC has not been able to start a full automatic check of officials’ declarations. As a result, colleagues, we lost 500 in the past year. 600, I'm sorry, millions of euros in macro-financial assistance from the European Union. At the rate at which NAZC checks declarations, they will do another 7,000 years. Does this suit us? The obvious answer is no. Instead, what NAZK did until I could start a normal job, I would name just a few examples. Instead of fully checking the assets of one of the NAC prosecutors, he tried to confiscate the sand. It's literally sand. NAZC printed indulgences about the absence of violations in government declarations, with no supporting documents in every third conclusion. At the same time, NAZK tried to ban the investigation of crimes, signs of crimes in declarations without the conclusion of NAZK. This NAZC can only be cured by way of rebooting, and that is one NAZK manager to be elected by an international committee of experts, as it was done for the Anti-Corruption Court, and NAZK must have full access to all registers for automatic verification of declarations. All of this is proposed by Bill 1029, and we ask accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u69	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u70	The Supreme Council supports this bill. And I also want to remind you that the re-launching of NAZC was the pre-election promise of at least three parties present in Parliament. The "Serial of the People" party keeps its promise, and we urge others to do the same. Thank you very much, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u71	Thank you, Anastasia Olegna. My colleagues, I'm asking for a little quieter in the hall, because we all started talking on the phone. It's probably here. Colleagues from the Opposition Block are the same. Thank you. Please register with factions: two for, two for, two for, one for. [[B in m in s a l in]] There was no time when we gave John Ivanovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] I propose to give the floor to John Ivanovich in the discussion. Please sign up: two in, two in. Misogyn Yuri Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u72	Please pass the word to Galina Yanchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u73	Janchenko Galina Igorovna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor! I would like to congratulate you on the fact that the NAZK relaunch bill is finally coming to an end! – discussed at the Supreme Council Hall. Why "at last"? Because the first draft of the NAZK relaunch was developed by the Cabinet of Ministers and widely discussed with the public as early as May 2017. Let me remind you, it was a complete failure of the second wave of declaration when the Cabinet of Ministers was forced to postpone the deadline for the submission of electronic declarations per month precisely because NAZC failed both technical and informational, and explanatory work. At the time, in 2017, the draft relaunching bill was widely supported by the public, but unfortunately, it never reached this particular hall, because, as we were told, there was no political will. Today such political will, I hope, is. And I'm stressing why it's necessary to reload the NAMC. During this time NAZK had actually failed most of the work that had been put on them. But the main thing is, of course, electronic declaration. There was no wave of declaration that was not accompanied by scandals both inside and outside. Moreover, the constant requirement of international partners for us to finally launch an automatic verification of declarations for today also does not work fully, despite the fact that more than a year ago such an automatic verification system was transferred to NAMC by international organizations. In addition, numerous complaints about the absence of normal communication, information and clarification, especially during periods of declaration, are constantly coming both from the declarants and from attention! - from the authorities responsible for detecting and preventing corruption working in the central authorities and local self-government bodies, which are the de facto NLA branches in the public authorities. So we don't actually have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u75	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u76	We have no reason to leave the NAZC leadership that is today. Therefore, I would like to support this bill, which, in addition to relaunching the NAMC leadership, has a number of positive rules, including access to NAMC registers, which are necessary for the full launch of automatic verification checks. And also the second norm, which even simplifies the electronic declaration system, is about this type.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u77	Helen Igorovna, I'm sorry, but the rules. Thank you. We invite Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u78	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Jurczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u79	Jaroslav Jurchisin, Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u80	You need a law, you need a law a long time ago. In fact, an agency was created to keep corruption from becoming the cheapest way to prevent it. Unfortunately, it does not work, unfortunately, under the current direction, it will not work. So relaunching it with the involvement of international experts is really making promises to society, it's making promises to our international partners, and it's finally a chance to prevent corruption, which is much cheaper than fighting corruption, that works. There's one small nuance. A law aimed at relaunching NAMK is trying to get into another law on overcoming political corruption, i.e. financing – control over the financing of political parties. These positions need to be removed from the bill because this is a regulation of a completely different law. And once again, we've introduced a political party report on the requirement of a visa-free plan. So it's very important that we take a very good approach to reforming this area. And then the proposal is based on the second reading to remove non-profile standards from the bill. There's a call from international organizations, there's a call from the public, there's a point of support. "The Voice" votes in favour with rights to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u81	Thank you. The word is given by Gerasim's Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u82	Arthur Gerasimov, European Solidarity. Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u83	Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u84	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I completely agree with my colleague's previous speaker. It is not clear why the Law on Relaunching NAMK actually provides for the abolition of funding for political parties that did not raise 5 percent. So the purpose of the previous law, which should allow for the development of a party system in Ukraine, is essentially nullified by this law. There is a reduction in the amount of funding, and we can agree with that, but not allowing those who have not gone to Parliament but have the support of the electorate to accept it is difficult enough, and that is the subject of another discussion. With regard to the reloading of NAZK. Obviously, it's hard not to support, because we've seen a lot of, well, these very strange decisions and we haven't seen real resonance judgments that would really affect the fight against corruption at this top level, especially in the power structures, in the judicial system. But we need to be aware of what we're doing now. We're killing a collegiate organ. Instead, we make one responsible person. The head is actually going to be one head. This is actually the COWK, the central authority of the executive branch. I don't know what's better: the college system or one representative to whom at any time, well, God forbid no one calls him to get some damn punishment, right? But in principle, there are risks here because there are problems about the containment system and the opposite side of the question. Next. We're talking to you about the CD. There's a clear list that allows you to release this appointed leader, actually now a one-man NAMK. But there's nothing there again about what we're talking about right now and what we want to do, what it's going to accomplish and how much it's going to achieve. What do we want from him directly, or will we directly achieve the results we face? There is no release under these conditions. What we exactly welcome is the presence of representatives of international organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u85	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u86	Thank you. What we exactly welcome is the presence of representatives of international organisations in a competitive commission, but we clearly believe that this bill also needs to be carefully worked out in order for us to actually have this body as a declaration-checking body, not as a politically committed structure, which will likewise take politicians, give me one place, as it was before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u87	Thank you. The word is given to Kabachenko Volodymyr Viktorovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u88	Kabachenko Volodymyr, faction of Fatherland. I'd like to agree with my colleagues from "European Solidarity", the Voice. And to our conviction, the draft Ukrainian Law, number 1029, is ambiguous and includes inconclusive points. On the one hand, and which is very positive, the bill envisions the reform of the NAMC, which will allow the NAMC to unlock its work and perform its functions effectively. I'm not going to count which way, because my colleagues already did. But on the other hand, Bill No. 1029, in addition to the changes related to ensuring the effectiveness of NAMC, also provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine. What's suggested is, first of all, to halve the annual amount of government funding for party activities, and second of all, I want to quote, "Slow down. (I'm sorry, yes) to disenfranchise the political parties that received over 2 per cent of the vote in the parliamentary elections, but failed to overcome the 5 per cent barrier." We all know that according to article 58 of the Constitution, the law has no retroactive force, but the law states that the law takes effect from the day following its publication, but the law does not contain an article that the law will be used in the next parliamentary elections. Depriving extra-parliamentary parties of the right to state funding of their activities can make it more difficult to get into the political arena of new political parties and reduce political competition in general. The removal of extra-parliamentary parties from State funding is also a direct disregard for international recommendations on State funding for political parties. I'd like that. The reports of the OSCE, PARJE, and the Venice Commission indicate this. I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u89	Give me 10 minutes to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u90	I would like to read more about paragraph 3.4 of the guiding principles of the Venice Commission, namely: "The State funding of the parties is also appropriate to extend to political forces representing an important part of the electorate and putting out candidates for elections." So, given all of the above, and also taking into account the recommendations of international organizations, the "Fatherland" faction proposes to abstain from voting for this bill and to send it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u91	Thank you, Your Honor. The motive is Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u92	Dear friends, dear colleagues! This is one of the important bills that the President has defined as urgent. We understand that NAZC needs a full reboot in any case. But that's what it looks like, and we see it anyway, colleagues, that the bill is aimed at further building a single vertical of power. We see a number of risks related primarily to increasing the powers of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, increasing the obligations of the object of the declaration, and members of its families, the full dependence of NAMK on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and increasing periods of commitment to administrative responsibility, and so on. What I want to pay attention to is a change in the form of government, which has already been mentioned in this room, from a collegiate to a single. It can certainly make it easier for third parties to exercise control over the head of the National Agency. We also don't see any fixed costs, no budget costs. And there are no calculations in this bill, which is certainly a violation of the Code of Budget and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Deputies for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u93	Let me finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u94	The parliamentary group "For the Future" will support the bill. We were going to register our alternate, we gave up. But we will support it in the first reading. And we're making adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u95	The motive is Ivan Ivanovich Krulko, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u96	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Before Bill 1029, which we are currently looking at, I registered an alternative bill. Thank you, Head of the Supreme Council, for giving us the opportunity to speak. On the committee that reviewed and prepared these draft laws for today's consideration, the individual norms that are included in my alternative bill are taken into account. But at the same time, I wanted to point out that Bill 1029 needs a very substantial revision from the point of view of NAMC's mandate, from the point of view of NAMC's leadership. Today, unfortunately, this agency is not effective and does not fully perform the functions that it is entrusted with. But at the same time, the things that are now contained in the Basic Law, without their being further developed into second reading, can make this organization an even less effective structure. So we, as Fatherland, will certainly make amendments to the second reading, and we hope that they will be taken into account. In that case, we will be ready to support this bill. Now we're going to abstain from voting for the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I propose a vote. Prepare for the vote, please. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (registration number 1029) amending certain Ukrainian legislation to ensure the effectiveness of the institutional mechanism for preventing corruption. This is the bill that was supported by the committee. Please support and vote. [[17:11:10]] For 283 For 283, against 3, hold 52. Thank you. Decision taken. That's right. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 234, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 0, "For the Future" – 15, "The Voice" – 20, non-fractional – 14. Thank you. In line with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten the preparation for the second reading of the bill (registration number 1029) to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts to ensure the effectiveness of the institutional mechanism to prevent corruption. Please support and vote. [[17:12:09]] For 252 Thank you. Decision taken. For -252, versus -19, held - 50. Show me the factions, please. People's Servant – 234, Opposition Platform – 0, European Solidarity – 0, Fatherland – 0, Future – 9, Voice – 0, non-fractional – 9. Ladies and gentlemen, we have received a decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to recognize the legitimacy of the so-called local elections in Ukraine's temporarily occupied territory, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. We need to vote for inclusion in the agenda of the plenary. To do that, we need 226 votes. Please support and vote. We are voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the plenary session. [[17:13:18]] For 319 For -319, versus -0, held - 5. Please show by factions. "Serve of the people" – 237 "for", "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 21, "Fathership" – 14, "For the Future" – 13, "Voice" – 20, "non-factional" – 14. Thank you. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to vote on the decision-making and decision-making at this plenary session. It's an ad hoc procedure. We also need to support, we need to get 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[17:14:10]] For 322 Thank you. Decision taken. - 322, versus - 1, held - 2. Please show by factions. People's Servant – 236, Opposition Platform – 0, European Solidarity – 22, Fatherhood – 13, Future – 14, Voice – 20, Non-faction – 17. Thank you. Decision taken. It is suggested that this provision be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:14:55]] For 323 Thank you. Decision taken. For -323, versus -0, held -2. Please show by factions. "Serve of the People" – 236, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 21, "Fatherhood" – 18, "For the Future" – 13, "Voice" – 19, "non-fractional" – 16. Ladies and gentlemen, the report is given to the head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, Yaremenek Bogdan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u98	Dear Head, dear fellow national MPs! It is my great honour to have my first speech from the Supreme Council’s rostrum to dedicate the presentation of the draft Decree (No. 2119) on the statement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the non-recognition of the legitimacy of the so-called local elections in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. As you all know, in February-March 2014, the Russian Federation occupied, as a result of military and security forces operations, and then illegally annexed, Ukrainian territories, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. The occupation and annexation are recognized as illegal in terms of international law, by decisions of international institutions such as the United Nations. The Supreme Council of Ukraine recognized the status of these territories as temporarily occupied. Since then, Ukraine and the majority of the world’s societies have maintained a policy of non-recognizance of the legality of the annexation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Nevertheless, within the framework of the colonization of the occupied territories, the Russian Federation is engaged in illegal activities, including elections. The last such elections to the local authorities were held in the Russian Federation, including by the Russian Federation in the occupied Ukrainian regions of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol on September 8. These actions have already been declared illegal by a number of nations. Ladies and gentlemen, our statement will not return Crimea, but it will be clear evidence that regardless of what the Supreme Council, in which the factions, the national idea of Ukraine, are to return our occupied territories, are the return of our citizens to the Ukrainian family. Whether it's our prisoners of war, or our other captives, or our citizens, who live in temporarily occupied territories. This will be a clear signal for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u99	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u100	This will be a clear signal to both our military and political rivals, and our friends, and our citizens in the temporarily occupied territories that Ukraine will not change its politics, and this is our nation's national idea. I urge you at a time when our Armed Forces, by sacrificing the lives and health of their fighters, protect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine on the forerunner, I do not ask, but I urge, I remind you, it is a duty, it is a minimum that each of us can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u101	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u102	for the sake of our country to support this statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u103	Thank you, Bogdan Vasilovich. I'd like you to sign up for the factions: two-for-two-against. If, of course, someone will. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u104	Thank you. Please give it to Ahtem Chigoza.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u105	Please turn on Ahtem Chigoza's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! Despite the repression, our citizens refused to participate in crimes that Russia is trying to legitimize in Crimea. Most refused to participate in the so - called elections. Please support our citizens in Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u107	Thank you. Kabanov Alexander Evgenovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u108	Thank you. Please give the word to your colleague Jasko Elizabeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u109	Elizabeth Yasko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, this is also my first speech from this rostrum, but with a very important question. The statement we are discussing relates to the topic of the occupation of Crimea, which is the subject of the cynical and starting of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression against Ukraine. There are people in our ranks of the "Serial of the People" faction who, with weapons in their hands, have defended the honour and dignity of our state. And we are very proud to have such colleagues. Among them are women. And that fact makes us unheard of as compared to the green men that those green men started the aggression against Ukraine. I have no doubt that our "Serial of the People" faction will support all and every decision concerning the non-recognizance of the Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. And we will support every decision that will contribute to the depopulation of Crimea and all in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, and in general we will strengthen the security of our state. We sincerely hope that our application will be an example and will be one that unites this hall and will never unify. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u111	Heroim Slava! Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of Fatherland, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u112	Dear friends, this is a very timely statement. I have just returned from the monitoring committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a 20-minute report by the person responsible for monitoring these elections, no mention of the illegality of elections in the occupied area of Crimea and Sevastopol. I think that this statement should come immediately to all the relevant institutions, including the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, so that the position of the absolute majority of the Heads of State, which was expressed literally the next day, would sound along with the position of the Ukrainian Parliament. I don't want to talk about how these elections went in Russia, where, think about it, the turnout in Moscow came in instead of 100 to just 21.5 percent. This is the attitude toward the authority of Putin and the Russian authorities that showed the Moscows. But let's think about the democracies of Russia and the international democracy, we're worried about something else. There must be an absolute clear position that any election that takes place in the occupied territory is a direct violation of all international norms, and this is an appropriate principle that must be proclaimed by the highest legislative body, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The key phrases in the application give a clear assessment of the actions of the invaders. And I think this decision should be decided by a maximum number of votes. The Fatherland faction will support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u113	Thank you. The word for motivation is given to Vakarczuk Svetoslav. Who? Hail Johnovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u114	Thank you very much. Please pass the word from the rostem umerov roubles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u115	Hello! Rustem Umerov, the Voice faction. We always say Crimea is Ukraine. But I want to say that Ukraine is Crimea. From you. [[Applause]] You're seeing a lot of people in Crimea right now, they can't express their thoughts, but they're expecting you to support these things. As the Voice faction, we will support and we want you to join us to join us: this is our Supreme Council, this is our Crimea, this is our Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u116	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u117	Please give the word to colleague Igor Guzu,
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u118	Hustle Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u119	Igor Gus, MP for the Future. Dear friends, in the past of the convocation, in this, I think it's a wonderful tradition, when, in matters of national security, national interests, our international war with the Russian Federation, all the political forces present here, except as you've seen on the board, the "occupational platform," will be the only ones. And those people in Crimea who will watch the video today or tomorrow and see the results on the board will know that in principle national issues we forget about political differences -- who's the opposition, who's the authority. We are representatives of the Ukrainian people. That's why the MPs are going to vote in favour. I call on everyone. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u120	Heroic glory! All those who wish to speak? Dear colleagues, I am voting for a motion to adopt a decree on the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to recognise the legitimacy of the so-called "local elections" in Ukraine's temporarily occupied territory, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol as a whole. Dear colleagues, I would like to address you, there can be no position not to vote here, either you're in favour, or you're in favour. And I hope that the Supreme Council will be consistent in its desire to restore our territory. This is our territory, and we must declare it to the world again. So please support and vote. [[17:26:54]] For 325 [[Applause]] - 325 against 0. - 1, not 32. Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 232, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 22, "Fatherhood" – 19, "For the Future" – 14, "Voice" – 19, "non-factional" – 19. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you've been given a draft decision to rename the village of Ivanovka Lubashivsky district of Odessa. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:27:54]] For 297 For -297, versus -0, held -0. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Questions. a subcommittee on the organization of state authority, local self-government, regional development and the construction of Bezgin Vitali Juriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u121	Good evening, dear colleagues. Good evening, Your Honor. We have worked hard today, and we have approved many important decisions, but your request for attention is also about renaming. You have been approached by Odessa District Council for the change of the village of Ivanovka, Lubashiv district of Odessa, to the village of Janovka. The name of the village of Ivanovka has been initiated by the Lubashov Village Council in connection with the fact that two settlements with the same name, Ivanovka, have entered after the integration of the territorial communities into the Lubashov village of the united territorial community. According to part 11 of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Geographical Names, the renaming of geographical objects is done in the event of a repetition of names. According to the Lubashiv Village Council, the former name of the village of Ivanovka is the village of Janovka, whose name comes from the place of Janovsky. The first references to the village of Janovka refer to 1859. The question of the renaming of the village of Ivanovka is supported by the local community at public hearings, agreed in accordance with current legislation, discussed and approved by the village council. As a result of its consideration of the matter, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, that the village of Ivanovka in the Odessa region should be renamed the village of Janovka, by adopting an appropriate draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand you don't need to discuss this. Therefore, I propose to vote a motion for adoption in the entire draft Order to Rename the Village of Ivanovka Lubashiv district of Odessa. Please support and vote. [[17:30:28]] For 294 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Order on the Rename of the village of Ryabuhine in the region of Kharkiv. I'd like to take a brief look at this. Please be supportive. [[17:30:57]] For 279 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the subcommittee on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of Bezgin Vitali Juriovich. Vitali Juryovich, you can probably use a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u123	Yeah, okay. Then I'll be right back. The question of the name of the village of Ryabuhine Novovodolaz Region of Kharkiv is supported by the territorial community in the general assembly of citizens, agreed according to the legislation, reviewed and approved by Birkovsky Village, Novovodolaz District and Kharkiv District Councils. As a result of its consideration of the matter, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, that the village of Ryabuhine of the region of Kharkiv, should be renamed the village of Gulya Pole, by adopting an appropriate draft decision. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a motion for adoption in the entire Order to Rename the Village of Ryabuhine of the Kharkov region. Please support and vote. Registration number 2094. [[17:32:17]] For 290 For 290, against 0, hold on to 6. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been given a draft of the Order on the Rename of the Village of Melichovka in the Kharkiv Region (registration number 2095). Dear colleagues, please be quiet in the hall. Please be quiet, we don't have much left, let's work out today. A word. I'd like to take a brief look at this. Please be supportive. [[17:33:02]] For 281 For -281, versus -1, held - 6. Decision taken. The word is given to the head of the subcommittee on the organization of government and local self - government, regional development, and the construction of Bezgin Vitali Juriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u125	We were approached by the Kharkiv District Council for a change of name to the village of Melikhovka, in the region of Kharkiv, to the village of Mikolayivka. As a result of its consideration of the matter, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, part one, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, that the village of Melichovka of the Novovodolaz Region of Kharkiv Region should be renamed to the village of Mikolayivka, by adopting an appropriate draft decision as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u126	Thank you. You don't need to talk about it? Let's go to the vote. I am voting for a motion for adoption in the entire Order on the Rename of the Village of Melichovka of the Kharkov Region (Registration No. 2095). Please support and vote. [[17:34:13]] For 295 For 295, against 0, hold on to four. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been given a draft Decision on the renaming of the village of Tekuche in the region of Ivano-Frankiv district (registration number 2096). Please consider the simplified procedure. Let's vote. Please be supportive. [[17:34:45.]] For 290 For – 290, against – 1, held – 6. Decision taken. I would like to make a statement to the head of the Committee's subcommittee on the organization of government, local self-government, regional development, and the construction of Bezhin Vitali Juriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u127	We have been approached by the Ivano-Frankiv District Council to report on the renaming of the village of Tekuche of the Kosovo region of Ivano-Frankiv region to the village of Tekuča. The results of the discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sorry. As a result of the Committee's consideration of this issue, it agreed to recommend, however strange, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, should rename the village of Tekuche of the Kosovo region of Ivano-Frankiv region to the village of Tekuča, by adopting an appropriate draft regulation as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u128	I take it there's no need for discussion? Oh, no? You don't have to. Thank you. I bet. Dear colleagues, silence in the hall, please! I am voting for a motion for adoption in the entire Order on the Renamement of the Village of Tekuche in the region of Ivano-Frankov Region (Registration No. 2096). Please support and vote. [[17:36:16]] For 308. 308 - in, against -0 held -0. Dear colleagues, we still have the statements that are now being read by Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, and I personally wanted to thank all the factions that supported today's decision on. A statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the non-recognition of the legitimacy of the so-called local elections and the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, did not block the rostrum, as it had been before. Thank you all again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, for those of you who are interested, I'm going to read about someone who doesn't have buttons. Look, it's the People's Deputy Leros. He's asking for a vote in favour of registration: 1046, 1031(P), 1037, 1059(D). Leros, he's in for number 70 and 57, vote in favour. After that, the people’s deputy Truhin was in 1057. And so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, I'd like to leave this question for tomorrow and start with it. And today, I thank everyone for it. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, I thank you all for your work and announce the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we start work at 10 a.m. Thank you all.
