ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u1	In response to the requirement of 158 national deputies for the convening of an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth occasion and in accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we are holding an extraordinary plenary meeting today. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please take up your jobs and ask the National Deputies to register to participate in an extraordinary meeting. And I remind you, it will also have to be registered in writing. I'd like you to sign up for an extra session. Please register. [[14:16:16]] 305 national deputies registered. I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Honorary colleagues are invited to consider two bills: 6,449 and 6607. And I'm moving on to their consideration. I would like to take a brief look at them: a summary procedure, a report and a vote. And I'm going to announce the transition and I want to remind you, boys and girls, you're going to have to register in writing for the extracurricular, don't forget then. Thus, the 6,449 draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the increase of liability for crimes is done in relation to a minor, a minor or a minor, and a person who has not reached sexual maturity. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Vote. We're backing it up. 150 votes, please. [[14:17:35]] For-154 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Láško Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u2	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, and today there is a unique opportunity to finally adopt laws that will stop the epidemic of sexual crimes against Ukrainian children. During the first half of this year, nearly 200 children were sexually abused by pedophiles in Ukraine. Think of the tragedy in Odestina when an 11 - year - old girl named Darya Lukyanenko was killed. Think of the tragedy that happened on July 5, 2005 in Dniper, when a second son of a bitch who killed a girl was raped and murdered. Every day a child suffers. In the past century, four children have become victims of pedophiles. We propose to adopt our law. Thank you for the support of the committee as a whole. Take the toughest responsibility for sexual maniacs. At least 15 years in prison without parole. Lifesaving supervision of these criminals by law enforcement agencies. An open, public register of pedophiles. So that not only the law enforcement agencies but every mother, each father could come in and see where the threat could be, where the bastard could be. So that he doesn't go to school or kindergarten or children's playground. Chemical forced castration of pedophiles to prevent him from raping children. If you and I adopt these laws, the world's experience shows that the epidemic of sexual violence against children will be stopped. Let's do it. I am addressing the Head of Parliament. For the sake of memory of Dara Lukyanenko, Tetjana Mizina, Nasti Balabina, Alina Vasutina, and hundreds of other Ukrainian children who have already been killed, let us adopt this law. I ask Parliament to vote in favour of Law 6449 and to call this law the eleven-year-old.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u3	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u4	And call this law the name of an 11 - year - old girl from Darja Lukyanenko, who became a victim of pedophiles. In her person, for the sake of the memory of all these innocent children, the plagues of saving the lives of our children, Ukrainian children, let us adopt this law by Darya Lukyanko, stop crimes against children.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u5	Thank you. I invite the head of the Legislative Security Committee, the law enforcement activities of Kozemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u6	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Legislative Security Committee, law enforcement, has considered a bill amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to increase liability for crimes committed against a minor, a minor or a minor, and a person who has not reached puberty (No. 6449). The changes are proposed, first, to impose punishments in the form of forced chemical castration, which consists of forced introductions to the convicted anthragens, which are made up of chemicals designed to reduce sexual activity. Second, to create a public register of persons who were sentenced to be deprived of the will for the rape of a minor, article 152 of the Criminal Code, for sexual violence against a minor and article 153 for sexual relations with a person who did not reach the age of 16, 155, and for depraved minors. Third. Establish a viable administrative oversight of the relevant category of convicted persons released from their places of deprivation. In view of the increasing incidence of crimes against sexual freedom and sexual immunity, the committee supported the idea of registering sex offenders. The committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a basis, both in general and as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u7	Thank you. So, colleagues, there is a suggestion to move on to making a decision. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall. I'm asking everyone who came out of the hall for unknown reasons to come back to make a decision. I ask the heads of factions to mobilize the individual composition of the units entrusted to you. People's deputies, please come into the hall. So let's go in, fellows. Ready, colleagues? The committee's proposal is in general. The committee's proposal is in general. So let's move on to making a decision. So I'm betting on the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Are we going to pass both laws or not? So, colleagues, I am voting on a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to increase liability for crimes committed against a minor or a minor, a minor or a minor, and a person who has not reached sexual maturity. — No. 6449. The committee suggests that it be accepted as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[14:24:46]] For 247 The law is passed. Next. We are going to draft the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of the Single Register of Persons, No. 6607. I ask you to support the review of the reduced procedure, please vote, please support. Vote. [[14:25:24]] For 224 One minute from the Kožemyakin Committee, Andry Anatoliyovich. She's not. Can we vote in general? [[B in m in s a l in]] All of it? I'll bet. The Committee, please, Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u8	Honourable Head, honourable colleagues, the committee considered Bill No. 6607. Suggested: First. In criminal proceedings, include voluntary medical action in the form of chemical castration. Well, there's almost a repetition of some things that were in the previous bill. Create a register of convicted persons, which is very important in the case. But there's a difference between "open," "closed" register. In the previous bill, there was a more severe attitude towards the register and access to it. But after the committee considered the bill and because it was a bill after it was put out for public discussion, it gained more than 30,000, yes, as a petition, as a vote, we considered it and, by supporting society, recommended that it be accepted as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u9	Thank you. I'm voting on the draft law. Vote. Author Neda. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of a single register of persons convicted of crimes against sexual freedom and sexual integrity (No. 6607) on the basis and overall with technical and legal rights. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[14:27:37]] For 217 [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, pay attention! Calm down. Everybody calm down. Everyone, please calm down first. I'll be back in a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues, let me put it again, if there are no votes, I'm opening the discussion. I'll put it again, if there are no votes, I'll open the discussion. I propose to return to the draft Law, to the vote in favour of Bill 6607. Please vote. Please be supportive. To return. On return, please vote. To return. [[14:29:28]] For the 220. So please record: 2 in, 2 in, 2 in. Entry 2 in, 2 in, please. Yes, from the Radical Party is Easy. Prepare from Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u10	Honorable fellow MPs, honourable Ukrainians, we have voted with you in Law 6449, which provides for a fully-open register, a register of pedophiles, sex offenders. Every mother, every father in this register, will see where that bastard is. Bill 6607 proposes to create a register to which only law enforcement authorities will have access, i.e. it is not an open register – only the courts, only the prosecutor's office, only the BSS. You know, on Peter's Market, you can buy all the information for $300. "Pour" information, remember how the scout in Kiev was blown up because the tax broke the information. The paedophiles register should be open to all. So I propose that we adopt the Law on the basis of 6607, work on the second reading, maximize responsibility for paedophilia. Let's put it this way: you're running now for one reason, you're interested in the piano, and I'm interested in people's lives. Instead of being a pianist, make an open register so that each family knows where those pedophiles are. And you want only judges and prosecutors to have access to this register. We don't need judges and prosecutors, every father, every mother has to protect her family, and you want only law enforcement. Wrong approach! Transparency and openness. As far as we're concerned, our Law 6449 is registered two and a half years ago, and two and a half years ago we're fighting to stop this vacchanal. Instead of waving at each other, let us unite efforts to stop criminals. That's why the law, based on it, is to sign and stop the vachanal of crimes against children's Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u11	From Self-Help, Mustafa Nayem. It's "self-help" for Mustafa Najem. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, I want you to hear and feel it now. Look, there's no money behind this law, I've worked on the law myself for two years. Mr. Oleg Valeriyovich entered two months ago, making a pianist. The other one. I want to finish. Now essentially. In the law of Oleg Valeriovich Ljaška there is no register at all – it is a lie. The other one. I'm reading this. The other one. The other one. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me make a deal. The other one. What we offer in the register that we have. This register will not be closed, and the register will be fully open to the managers of all facilities, where children learn where they are being treated, and where they are resting. Any manager, any teacher has the right to access this register. Third. The law that we propose is fully in agreement with all law enforcement agencies. We spent two years with him. Both the police and the D.A. spoke to him, and we agreed on all the questions. Four. Under our law, there are 30,000 people who have voted a petition for it. Behind him are all the criminals in the country, all the teachers in the various colleges, the lawyers, the experts who came to the committee, they argued, and the committee took a decision two years later, once again, four discussions. We returned him four times to the committee, and he was voted on in general in this room for a vote. So I ask you very much: the bill proposed by Mr. Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko, we respect the initiative, it has already been voted on. Let's vote on a law that completely regulates this issue and not just the register, and the punishment, and the castration, and the disqualification, of all issues. The law enforcement authorities will decide how they will reconcile these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u13	Thank you. From the People's Front. I'll give you the replica. He's the People's Front, Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u14	Maxim Burbak, 204 constituency. You know, I just came from Kiev to vote for the Electoral Code for the first time. And the second is to take part in the next session. If we're here to discuss how to combat these crimes that have now waved across our country, then the People's Front will vote for both the bill and the bill. Do not break the list, which one of you registered first, who else should be facing this problem. And the experience of Western countries shows that chemical castration, once it's applied, for example, in Britain relapses fell from 40 to 5 percent, in Germany to 3 percent. Can I tell? During a meeting in the district, the young mother asked me, "Maxim Yuriovich, how will you react to the fact that there is now a wave of crime against children of a sexual nature in Ukraine?".. I said to her honestly, in my eyes, "You know, Your Honor, I did everything I could to get the next session convened, and we gave our signatures." Today we have to vote here and we have already voted on the first bill, and now we have to vote on the second bill. I'm sure we can vote on technical law to work out and that's a complex solution to this problem. Let's not share who first, second, all together, the only front we're going to be fighting crimes of a sexual nature against our children. But we all have children, soon there will be grandchildren, and we must protect them. Thank you. Stop breaking the spears! Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u15	Thank you. From Suslov's Peter Prashenko Block. Please, Suslova.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, these are just the things we talk about emotionally very often in working groups, but we need to discuss them here in Parliament without emotion. Let's first define and define medically what paedophilia is, I want to read it to you. "It's a psychiatric illness. Among those who commit sexual crimes against children in pedophile, only a few percent suffer, and most are healthy. Chemical castration is the only chemically and clinically proven way to treat pedophiles today." What does it matter to us? It is important to us that this bill has been on the table for almost three years. Its co-authors are the vast majority of national deputies from completely different factions. We re-registered him three times and a job to do it. And every time we reregistered it, we tried to improve it and take into account all of our proposals and our international partners and partners. and from other committees of the Ukrainian Parliament. What are we asking? We ask you to support 6607 as a whole. Why? Because this bill alone contains a standard for the creation of a closed register that will be accessible not only to the members of the Ministry and the law enforcement agencies but also to all the principals of all educational institutions, or institutions, that work directly with children. This is the bill for the rape of a minor or a minor, article 152 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, to increase the penalty from 12 to 15 years, from 8 to 15. For the rape of a minor or a minor repeatedly or a person who has previously committed crimes against sexual freedom and the sexual integrity of a minor or a minor, it is suggested that he be punished for a term of 10 to 15 years or permanent imprisonment. I understand that there are many coauthors. But this is the question that should unite the hall rather than disunite, and I ask you to support it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u17	Thank you. The replica. Easy is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u18	A colleague whose last name I don't want to call him lied twice. First. Our bill, which we passed in total, 6449, registered on May 16, 2017, more than two years ago, we're fighting for this law. Bill 6607, which we are currently looking at, is registered about a month and a half after ours, June 21, 2017. We've collected 162 signatures from the people's deputies. And I thank all the factions who signed up for this so that we can have a session. The law we passed with you provides for an open register of paedophiles, at least 15 years in prison, without any fork from 12, from 7, from 8. Fifteen years and a dot. And without parole. And the lifelong supervision of pedophiles. And an open register is open for each family, not just for law enforcement officials who give up information for money. That's why I don't understand what we're "breaking spears" about. Children who may be the potential victims of these pedophiles should be considered, not their own pyar before the elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u19	I'm giving both the committee and the author and Troy one minute at a time. Is that enough for a minute? Please. Perhaps the head of the committee will say some compromising position, Kožemyakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u20	Dear colleagues! I want to say first about the dates, the dates of the registration. We have Anton Volodymyrovich Yatzenko as a member of our committee, he registered a similar bill back in 2016, it's for you not to compete for registration here, he's standing right now, the author of this bill, he's unfortunately not brought out today. That's the first one. And secondly, Mr. Light's project does not allow chemical castration to be used as a form of criminal punishment. This bill he's doing chemical castration as a medical procedure, you know? That's the difference. The man was punished, and then he wanted to or didn’t want a medical plan. I think there's got to be a tougher position here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u21	What's your offer, Mr. Andrew? How to Vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u22	The position is very simple, the committee's decision was very correct and legal and political, why? Because 30,000 signatures collected under petition, we couldn't have done otherwise, we took them to the hall once. The hall was determined because 150 signatures were collected under the Láška Bill, the first. The second petition was voted on, and the decision was taken. But if we now adopt this bill as a whole, there will be a court of law, because one article of the Criminal Code cannot be amended twice. That is why not one of the laws will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u23	And can we base it on that?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u24	And based on that, we can take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u25	I understand how to vote. Please, Neda, Neda Oleg Anatolyevich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u26	I thank all 30,000 people who supported our Bill 6607. And I want to let you know that the registers are only closed to the general public, but they're open to professionals. Open. Next: In our bill, the register is listed in the bill itself. In the bill of colleagues, the creation of the register is given to the Cabinet of Ministers, and there is no regulation in the law of registering. Our bill has a sanction of 12 to 15, and it's increased. And if this is the second time, it's a life sentence. A colleague doesn't have one. So I ask you all to support, all the people who supported our Bill 6607, on the basis and in general. This is done by all: both the public and the professionals. We spent a lot of time. And please give Mr. Troyan your word. They have a point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u27	Please, Troyan, one minute. Troyan, are you in? Wait a minute, Troyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as a person, as a Ukrainian, who has four sisters and two brothers, I support Oleg Valeriovich's law, as a human. As a lawkeeper, I support Law 6607 why? Because self-judgement, if we do open registers, will be great, knowing our mentality. But let us adopt both the first and the second laws, and let the Supreme Constitutional Court decide which law is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u29	Replica Yatzenko. One minute. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u30	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, in my own time, I passed the same law 6151, yet, in fact, in the 16th year, on forced castration of pedophiles, and it's very similar to Mr. Layashk's project, which today we became co-authors in this law. And I'm willing in principle to support and say that the only thing for a pedophile is his forced castration. So we're very kind to the different pervs who rape children, listen to different so-called experts, different social organizations. But once again, in my opinion, the life of even one child is worth our while, in principle, to adopt this Law of Laity itself. So my proposal is, you can adopt another law in the first reading, but let's be clear: we have to stand by children, not any experts, embassies and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u31	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm going to propose first, I'm going to vote on the committee's proposal as a whole, if they don't pass, I'm going to lay the groundwork. Is that all right? This will be right and just. So the first vote in general. If it doesn't work, it's based on it. We've completed the review of the poet of Law 6607, and I'm putting to the vote the first proposal, the committee's proposal to adopt draft Law 6607 as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Vote. [[14:45:17]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. And next, draft Law 6607 as a basis. Please vote, please support. Based on the base. Let's unite and support, this is going to be the right thing to do. Based on the base. Vote. We're backing it up. Based on the base. Vote. [[14:45:47]] For 228 Decision taken. Draft Law 6607 was adopted as a basis. My colleagues, I'd like to inform you that we have several applications. One statement from the factions of the People's Front and the BP. And they're willing to replace the application for the stand. And I invite you to Michael Bondar's rostrum. And then a few votes. And, colleagues, in five minutes at the entrance, let's take a picture together, at the entrance of the Constitution Square. The eighth call. In five or seven minutes, at the entrance of the photograph. Three minutes, Mikhailo Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you at the expense of Law 10307. It's like Andrew Volodymyrovich said, on mining issues. If there is a point to this law, I will simply ask my colleague to vote and discuss this law, which is the point. But what's important is that this is a debt law in front of miners, it's their wages. So please vote, turn it on. Let's talk about it and take out all the comments that we have on it, and then we'll vote no more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u33	Thank you. Please read it. And what I'm saying is, actually, Mikhailo Bondar, who's been dealing with coal miners for many years, I'm very sorry that your bill was not supported in the hall today. Because it's your job to support miners from your district. Mr. Michael, after lunch, we'll try to put it back up again to support the miners. And thank you so much for your hard work for the miners. Thank you, Mr. Michael. Now Irina Heratchenko. A few announcements.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, statements have been made before the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to National MP Arthur Palatno, the card did not work when voting for a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on increasing liability for crimes committed in relation to minors or minors, No. 6449, and requests that his vote be taken into account in favour. Similarly, Victor Krivenko made the same statement. His card didn't work when he voted for Bill 6449. His voice is "yes." Likewise, Olga Belkova asks to count her voice "yes" during the 6449 vote. Similarly, Irina Heratschenko in the Presidium complains that her card did not work when voting for Bill 6449. Please count her voice in favour. And National Deputy Valérie Karpuntsov reports that he voted in favour of Bill 6449 and his card didn't work. I'm asking you to consider these positions. Dear colleagues, and now we invite with the Head of the Supreme Council, Andrey Volodymyrovich Parubius, all of our colleagues from all our factions to the central exit of Parliament for the collective photographing of the historic Supreme Council of the Eighth Call.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m1.u35	Thank you. So, colleagues, we've exhausted the order of the extracurricular session. And I want to remind you that we need to register for the next session, and we need to sign up for it in writing. On this occasion, the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I remind you that the evening plenary meeting will take place at 4:00 p.m. I invite everyone to the hall and welcome to a successful job. In five minutes, the square of the Constitution, the photos, everyone, please.
