ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u1	Welcome! Is this the Desert District? What area? Congratulations! We signed the Language Act today, I'm sure it's very important to you. Welcome to the Supreme Council! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u2	The Libyans. Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please come into the hall. So, are the colleagues ready to register? Please register to attend the evening meeting. I'd like you to sign up. [[16:06:32]] 358 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Colleagues, I have a question for all factions and their heads. May I have your attention, please? Attention! Now we have a block of local self-government issues on the table. These are three questions: first, the service of local self-government, second, the bill of principle of the administrative system, third, the strengthening of State guarantees for mountain and high-level settlements. The committee asks for a half hour’s postponement of the panel’s consideration there, and they hold the latest consultations. The next is the draft of the Vocational Higher Education Act. May I ask if there is support? Is there any backup? Vocational excellence in education. Vocational excellence of education -- it's next to a block of local self-governance. Yes! "Block of Petra Dustenka," Arthur Gerasimov! Arthur! Is there support for the Law on Professional Higher Education? Is that right? People's Front! Then we go in and we collect voices. Please. Then, colleagues, once again, I remind you that the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government asked for a break for consultations to start their bloc. So now I'm proposing the next law that we have in our agenda: the draft of the Vocational Higher Education Act. And then we, Mr. Sergei, and then we'll look at the laws of local self-government. So we're starting a review of the draft Education Priorities Act: 8321, 8321-1, 8321-d. And I'm asking you to prepare the National Deputies of Marchenk Alexander, the Taras Cremen for the report, and also the Committee's representative. And, colleagues, I'm voting on a motion to consider a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:09:33]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. After all, the law is very strong and, I think, how we're going to talk about it fully, it's going to be for both education and the Ukrainian Parliament's positive. And I'm going to invite the authors first, and then the committee, Mr. Alexander. First, I invite you to the presentation by Alexander Marchenck, then Taras Kremen, and then I'm the head of the singing committee. Alexander Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u3	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, distinguished staff of higher education level I-II accreditation institutions, college students, technicians. In 2014, at the adoption of the Higher Education Act, colleges entered higher education, so-called transitional periods. But since December 2014, colleges and technicians have had an eternal problem – the definition of financing. We remember that in December 2014 we had a long nighttime epepoch with you to include funding, and this is happening year after year. And thanks to your efforts, colleagues, the Education Committee, we passed Bill 5240 in 2017, where by September 1, 2019 colleges and technicians remain in the form of professional higher education. Colleges, Technicians, the Association of Colleges, Technicians, Directors, many other social organizations over the course of two years have drafted a professional, pragmatic bill on vocational education, which is ahead of education. This is the bill that today must unite the hall. The key points in the Vocational Higher Education Act (No. 8321) are autonomy. The autonomy that can bring the quality of education and the acquisitions, and the work that has been done in the district associations, and the work carried out by the Association of Colleges and Technicians throughout the territory, has now become the amended Bill 8321. What does this bill unite? This bill brings together more than 700 educational institutions. This bill brings together 400 college workers, technicians. This bill awaits 400,000 college students, technicians. In September, when the Education Act was passed, there was a defined component, a professional background for education, where former education institutions at the I-II level of accreditation should become a separate component, and they should have a separate law. It was for the implementation of the education standards that we worked on the bill, and it was introduced into the hall. I want to thank you, colleagues, for the bill was signed by 259 people's deputies. The bill has been drafted by the Education Committee several times. And on July 16, 2018, he is registered with the Supreme Council. What does it define? It defines public policy, defines the sphere of activity and the place of professional higher education, strengthens the state funding of vocational education institutions. Because this bill, according to the scientific and expert board of the Supreme Council, must be considered simultaneously by the Law, which is registered in the Supreme Council, 8460. The bill is about financing vocational and technical education. It builds up the best traditions that are years of experience that have been formed by colleges and technicians. And an important document that anchors the education chain, the education component, is that today nothing better sews Ukraine together, nothing better should unite this hall than the education laws. A professional higher education in the military Ukraine, Ukraine, which today suffers from children going abroad, society, Ukraine, which is now fighting for the development of all sectors of the economy, we need to adopt this bill. Because there's a lot of talk going on about that we have to keep our children in Ukraine, we have to influence the recovery of the Ukrainian economy, we have to have confidence in the future today. And the educational laws should unite the hall and all the national deputies, beginning with the Severerodonetsk, ending with the national deputies from Western Ukraine. Once again, I want to thank the company, all the national MPs, the co-authors. I'd like to thank the Association for the Third Level of Accreditation Schools. I want to thank the Education Committee, and I want to thank all those educational workers who have worked with us patriotically for many years and have worked with us on a working, practical, professional bill. When it comes to the bills that follow Bill No. 8321, I want to stress once again the quality of education, the confidence of tomorrow gives us the independence of our educational institutions. Dear colleagues, I want to support this bill and I want to ask you, Andriy Volodymyrovich, and all the colleagues in this room to support Bill 8321 as a basis. And I'm sure this bill is a vision of Ukraine's future, a concern for our children, and this bill will unite the entire room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u4	Thank you. I'd like to see an alternative report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Mr. Marchenko, come back, please. You have to answer the questions according to the complete procedure. Thank you very much. And please record for questions. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kuril.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u5	Honorable National MPs, distinguished Ukrainians, educators and those who are studying at the 1st and 3rd levels of accreditation, vocational and technical schools! Clearly, we need such a law. And this law should have been in the early 1990s. The fact that no government, no Ministry of Education and Science has been able to prepare and adopt such a law by this time has led to the fact that we have vocational and technical education, a higher education of the 1st level of accreditation -- that we have a people who understand as technicians -- is actually going to impoverish. And that led to the fact that we actually had these two.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u6	Thank you. Please. Will you comment? Mr. Marchenko? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u7	I thank my colleague for his support, for his vision, and for the position that Kurilo has always given to the development, work and co-authorship of Bill 8321 on the professional superiority of education.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u8	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Head of Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u9	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. I want to thank Alexander Marchenko for such fruitful work in the drafting of this bill. I know that there have been a lot of experts involved, including the teachers themselves, who have been working to really improve, because today we have a very acute problem with professional higher education. I want to ask you, Alexander Alexanderovich, if we accept this bill, do you believe that we will still be able to reorient young people, that they will return to Ukraine, that they will learn here, that they will have a chance of obtaining jobs, and that they will still have a bearing on Ukraine, not abroad? Because I understand that the content of this bill is to develop a high-quality professional background for education, in the future that a person can get a perspective in order to work in the future and get a first job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u10	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u11	Thank you, Mikhailo Josephovich, for your support. Thank you for asking. I'm sure the experts who come out today and get diplomas from younger specialists are the first tax payers today. These are the first workers to produce and the experts responsible for producing quality products. And during the war, they are also the first defenders. And today, the concern for vocational technical education, the concern for professional higher education is exactly the right argument for our young people from a young age not to look for themselves in other countries, to be in the Ukrainian economy. And statistics show that college graduates, technicians most often find jobs in Ukraine and are most needed in Ukraine. And I'm sure when this bill is passed, when it's done.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u12	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u13	Respect for college, technology, we'll have quality education and we'll have quality professionals. And the capitalization of colleges, technology is the capitalization of human capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u14	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the national MP John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u15	Ivan Sporish, Winnitzkin, 15th district. Of course, we have to accept the bills today, we will consider all three. And really, it's already said to the reporter that the key is autonomy and quality, and it's probably waiting for the bills, as you said, 400,000 students. And above all, this education is colleges, technology and so on. As you said, this should, well, maybe go to some percentage of government security. But I have a question like that. Of course, we don't have to spare money to have experts, there are no questions. But what is the amount that it takes for these bills to fit into reality and work, really, for our children and our experts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u16	Mr. John, I thank you first of all for being co-author of the bill. The singers are 259 deputies. You said the key words: autonomy and quality. These two comparisons are inseparable. If we've been looking at the bill, and we need it from the 5.7 billion budget, well, this is the equivalent of 2017, I'm sure that the Ukrainian state and the people who are responsible for the basic functions of the state, the executive power should provide in the unitary state that Ukraine is -- yes? - and education is the main sewing mechanism and the mechanism that will provide for the future, it is not money to ensure the unfunded financing of vocational higher education facilities. And that's the kind of money in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u17	Thank you. You can take your place. And I invite you to report to the author of the alternative bill, the national MP Taras Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u18	Taras Kremen, People's Front. And in fact, even though this bill is an alternative, I would like to introduce it first, and then explain the philosophy of developing advanced education in Ukraine, as well as some points to mark the position of our Committee on Science and Education. Yes, indeed, on 8 May 2018, Igor Brichenk and I registered Bill 8321-1 on the Professional Priorities of Education, which establishes basic legal, organizational, financial, professional, higher education systems, creates conditions for the cooperation of public authorities, local self-government bodies, public associations and business establishments, which carry out educational activities in the field of professional higher education on the basis of autonomy, combining education with production, self-realization of the individual, human needs and society in the relevant qualifications, and determines the competence of public authorities and local self-government in the field of professional higher education. And this is in no way some kind of know-how, this is an appropriate extension for the realization of the concept of education in Ukraine. Because I want to remind you that in the context of the adoption of the Framework Law on Education, we have also foreseen different levels of education. And so in fact, the emergence of Bill 8321-1 is a logical extension of the legislative provision of educational levels. It is clear, then, that in our bill we have been able to combine not only the work that is in different fields at the level of public organizations, associations, institutions of vocational higher education, and the enormous experience that offers us the labour market, but also, of course, the European experience that allows us today not only to change the model but to offer a qualitatively different view of the system of professional higher education. Because, at the same time, we have been able to focus our attention as much as possible on making changes to those existing bills that are fundamentally important to us. These are, as has already been said, the Higher Education Act of 2014, this is the Education Act, as well as a number of other legislative initiatives that take place and continue. And it's clear that no one today has the success of the New Ukrainian School and the effectiveness of the Education Act. Similarly, no one has the effectiveness of the Higher Education Act, which also has an appropriate improvement. But what we wanted to propose was this bill. Clearly, there is a broad field of cooperation and dialogue with the environment. It is clear that there is a chance for other levels of education and professional higher education, including. Because unfortunately, there used to be problems, but we've defined concepts like "art education" and its professional existence as "sports education." And obviously, for the first time in the last decade, we've made the most of our professional approach to the concept of military education, which has become particularly important in terms of Russian aggression. In addition, all basic standards, including basic positions, including the structure of professional higher education, are very clearly defined. And here I'd like to stop at the next one. It's a concept like "professional college," which provides opportunities for the realization of the concept of education in the regions. This is an opportunity to create regional multi-professional centres for advanced and professional education. And it's clear that colleges and colleges that also give opportunities and opportunities. The third important element is the structure of professional higher education directly in education, which is built according to the cathedral principle. In addition, we have made clear the issue of the election of the heads of such institutions, the issue of student self-government, the existence of hostels, and the creation of student dormitories and the questions of their existence. Equally important, it's a matter of interaction with local self-government authorities and the issue of autonomy. Regrettably, the institutions of vocational higher education today are crucially in need of quality funding from local governments, and there are many examples. A very important element that I would like to stop at is that this bill has paved the way, as it were, for a broad discussion of the problem of professional higher education in Ukraine at all. And that's why I want to thank those who have focused their attention as much as possible and have joined the development of Bill 8321-d on the course of the Education and Science Committee, which is the third in a series of these bills, but in no way is it an alternative. Here I would like to make my remarks in order for a wide range of our colleagues who are aware of the problems of vocational higher education to understand: 8321-d is the basic one, which can and should become the main one for the adoption and approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Despite the fact that we have this multi vectority, despite the fact that a large number of authors from the national deputies of Ukraine have joined in their writing and preparation, I still believe that the basic approval of 8321-d is the basis for a truly organic pro-European vector of the development of vocational higher education. And here, I think more will be said by the first deputy chairman of the committee, Alexander Spiowakovsky, but I want to emphasize one more. 8321-1, which is an alternative, is an intermediate chain, but at the same time it is much better than 8321 at the expense of its fineness, at the expense of its reasoning, because it is a subject of discussion and positive responses. I want to thank those colleagues who took part in our regional councils, and these have actually taken place in all areas. I want to thank the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for joining this discussion. And we don't want to be contraversive to the state's position. So I think 8321-1 is an alternative. But 8321-d, which we are about to present, is a consolidated bill on behalf of our committee, which has been co-sponsored by all, without exception, co-authors and national deputies from the Committee on Science and Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u19	Thank you. Please stay by the rostrum. And please record for questions. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u20	Ivan Sporish, Winnitzkin, 15th district. Of course, it has been said that I would like to thank Mr. Taras Kremen that he really understands all three of the bills perfectly and that he has already united the work of all the bills and so forth. And it has to be done, and it would be very good for us to have experts, to have. We know very well that in the future we will now be looking, running after every expert in our business. And that's really question number one. I think we really should. I want to thank you, first of all, for understanding Mr. Taras. And, indeed, it is very wise that we should go out and unify all three bills into one whole. But we must vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u21	Thank you. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u22	I want to reply to you by saying that we actually have three bills. But 8321-d, which is the work and consolidated decision of our committee, I propose that it be fundamental. Because it incorporates all the standards of the proposed alternative documents, it's a debated and supported professional environment, it's a result of close cooperation with the labour market, with local self-government authorities. And he's really giving us a chance to develop professional higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u23	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u24	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. I would like to ask you a question about the phenomenon of the autonomy of these educational institutions. If we're talking about college and technology itself, what is the degree of autonomy in your bill for these institutions, I mean financially, organizationally, so that they can make more effective use of development opportunities, and in fact that we have this branch and this education chain, it has really had the opportunity to develop, and we have an effective system that prepares frames for all of Ukraine in this direction?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u25	Thank you for asking. I believe that one of the criteria that should be a confirmation of the institution's autonomy may be the following. I mean, in our bill 8321-1, we proposed a standard that eventually went back to 8321. It's such a concept as the creation of oversight bodies or so-called supervisory councils, which in some ways are the level of interaction between local governments, the labour market and the education facility. On the other hand, they are a real incentive to make the institution of professional higher education as independent as possible. Despite the declarative nature of each of these bills, 8321-d actually meets all the rules of the institution's autonomy. So I hope that the people's deputies will actually support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u26	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the national deputy John Savka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u27	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I want to thank all the co-authors of the three drafts of professional higher education, those are the bills that are necessary for our state, especially our young people, because these bills have only been necessary since the 1990s. First of all, I'd like to pay attention to the preparation of military education, where the bills say it's the names of those military officers who are ready to go into a professional approach. So, Mr. Taras Dmitrovich, I'd like to see you. In terms of compatible, we'll be talking about the bill, to write a compatible work with the Armed Forces of Ukraine in order to produce a certain result and, in itself, to finance in this direction, regarding the training of military personnel, future military personnel, at a time when Ukraine is at war with the Russian Federation in the sixth year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u28	I want to thank my colleague for focusing on military education, and they are very important and relevant today. Unfortunately, we have areas where there are vocational higher education institutions, but unfortunately, there are no military education institutions, and this is a huge minus that has a huge impact on the level of preparation of our young people and girls for adult life. What I'm saying is that one of the important norms that is fundamentally important in today's conditions is concepts like the language of education, and it's very good that the Education Act, this category went to 8321-1 and 8321-d, as well as the issue of academic integrity. I still think that young people who are learning in institutions of vocational higher education should also gain at this level the skills that will help them in further professional growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u29	Thank you. We're running out of time. Thank you, Mr. Taras. And we're going to the next reporter. I invite you to see the co-report of the amended Bill 8321 of the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of the People's Deputies, Alexander Spiowakovsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, first of all, from what I would like to begin, I am addressing all of you who are here, and I am addressing those who have gone: all of you go to the elections soon. We need to understand that if we don't accept this bill, from September 1st, all the technicians and colleges are running out of legal security, that is, they're gone. In 2014, our office with you has not yet passed the Higher Education Act. This is the etymology of the question. She passed the Higher Education Act, where she said, and there was I, II, III, IV equal, and Level II -- they were technicians and colleges, and schools that were comparable to them. And we said then that level-II is not higher education, and we said that over the next two years, we're going to decide what this is: Technicians and colleges. We did not say either in two years or in three years or even in five years. So if we don't vote today, let every educated person who works in the field of technology and colleges understand that the issue of a whole network of education, which is left without a piece of legislation, will not be solved. Now, how did this happen? We have received a bill from our distinguished colleague, Mr. Alexander Alexandrovich Marchenka, 8321. After receiving this bill, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, represented today by Deputy Minister Yuri Mihajlović Raškević, passed its bill through the People’s Deputy of Kremen. And the Committee on Science and Education remained in a situation where we had to find an appropriate compromise, because it was impossible to leave this area without legislative provisions. What have we done, committee, what have we done? We've created a working group, we've entered a hundred experts, more than a hundred experts. The working group was headed by our distinguished colleague, Irina Miroslavovna Konstankevich, who worked with the secretariat, along with our assistants of our national deputies, and we came out very difficult, but we made a compromise. We've been looking for different options, including options that would actually connect trade and technology with technology and colleges, and we'd be able to create institutions that would look that integrated. Unfortunately, we were not supported by the community of technicians and colleges, or by the PTU. And we've decided that this is going to be decided by two bills: the Vocational Higher Education Act and the Occupational Education Act -- that's what we've come up with. It was a very difficult decision. Why? I don't use asparagus at all, because asparagus is the first step towards plagiarism and dishonesty. But when it comes to compromising points, look, the first moment around which there were battalions is about defining the level of vocational higher education, because in technologies and colleges, they wanted them to be called and incorporated into higher education structures. On the other hand, they didn't want them to be compared to the level of vocational education. As a result, there was a compromise, which was that they remained on level five, and the descriptors, which actually determine the competences of the professional people they release, we took level six. And so there was a compromise. Next: about the name of the educational and professional level. Dear colleagues, Mr. Bereza, Mr. Bereza. I speak, Mr. Borislav, but you don't like it when you're talking. Dear colleagues, this is a question of this education chain in Ukraine, this is the sergeant's composition of our economy. Yes. The others are listening. Dear colleagues, I'll be wasting my time, well, I'm sorry. Look what we did, we found a compromise, and it's going to be called an expert junior bachelor. Is that nice? No, it's not. But it was that compromise, when the education chain agrees, the ministry agrees, and the committee sees it as a compromise. Next. There was a question from our wheel: freedom for the Supervisory Board. Look, there's been a lot of discussion here, but we've found a compromise that concerns, on the one hand, securing some autonomy, because this is the autonomy of the educational institution in terms of the formation of curricula, from the point of view of the formation of the curriculum, from the point of view of the adoption of projects or other projects. And on the other hand, we understand that the state is the owner. And if the state is the owner, it has to have regulatory forms of influence, indirect, non-directive, but forms of influence. So this is the structure of the supervisory board and the functions of the supervisory board to ensure a balance between what technology, college, or those in the system of professional higher education, and the founder had a significant impact. It's a compromise. The next is funding. This is very important. We agreed that these were also complex discussions that technologists and colleges would be able to have a multi-channel funding system so that the state, the state budget, would be able to finance it, and the local government had the ability to finance it, and business had the opportunity to finance it. In general, my dear colleagues, I am addressing you: every year when we adopt the budget and the budget code, we have the problem that the single-channel funding system is not normal, it does not allow the system and higher education, and professional higher education to develop. This is not normal. That's why it's supposed to be right here in this bill. By the way, if we don't accept this bill by September 1st, the Ministry of Finance will be deciding then the direct fate of technicians and colleges to understand it. That's how we wrote it. Next. An external independent evaluation of learning outcomes is also written in such a way as to level the rights of those who leave schools or other educational institutions. The next thing you know, learning. Article 43 of the bill stipulates that admission to vocational higher education is carried out on the basis of introductory trials, and that either there is a way through school, or through the PWN, or directly. The only thing that's added is 25 percent if the kid makes a decision and goes through the D.O.N. I mean, she's supposed to have a preference because she's doing it because of what the state admits. Dear colleagues, the important thing is that for the first time, article 31 admitted that there could be only two types of institutions, this is a college of expertise, and this is a military college of a sergeant type. We're specializing because the defense still has its own specifics. And that's why I'm saying that when we talk about technicians, colleges, we're talking about the sergeant's composition of our economy. If we're talking about another type, it's called "sergeant-type military college." Dear colleagues, the next very important is the trajectory. We provide the trajectory in such a way that it is possible to go to vocational higher education both through school and through other institutions. Moreover, professional higher education through licensing can have appropriate programs not only for a professional younger bachelor but also for a younger bachelor, and a bachelor, and this is also important. Because if historically it's a very powerful teaching facility, then why is it? And he has, and he has some human resources, and some technology base, so why don't he have different levels, different levels, from Bachelor, Bachelor, Junior Bachelor. But this is going to be an exclusion, an exclusion if this facility is licensed. So, dear colleagues, what do we promise? What if we take our 3821-d, the compromise option, we understand that there are other positions where we have to work out and compromise. But if we accept, we promise to confirm immediately at our committee meeting once again the mandate of the working group. Irina Miroslavna, if she agrees to head the subcommittee, she will lead this group, we will work together. We have to come in with this bill by July, vote in the second reading. Everything, then, since September 1st, we can say that technology and colleges in the education system of Ukraine not only exist, but will occupy one of the important elements of Ukraine's innovation economy. Dear colleagues, please come back. This vote is very and very important. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u31	Thank you, and please stay. Please stay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u32	Thank you. You won't deny it if there are no questions? There won't be a hall. Please. Colleagues! Colleagues, there is a great request for us to move more dynamically, for the great order of the day is still very great. Please sign up for a faction discussion right now. There's no warning if it's two minutes away from the factions? Please, there will be two minutes of performances now. Mr. Kodol from the People's Front. Give Kodoli to the National MP a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u33	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Dear colleagues, very important drafts are in the agenda, and as a representative of Chernigovishka, the Mayor, I would like to convey a speech from all the schools in the 1st degree of accreditation: this is also the Nižin Medical College, our Lower Agrotechnical College, the College of Culture and Art, the same institutions that work in Chernigów, in Priluki, are very much asking to support this bill and to preserve the colleges and technicians themselves, who are preparing such necessary experts for our state today. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Our faction votes in favour, and we support, we vote in favour of these important legislative initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u34	Please, National Deputy Ribczynski,
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u35	Eugene Ribczynski, Glossievsky district, the city of Kyiv I'd like to pass on the word to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u36	Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u37	For starters, I'm going to the Presidium. The deadline is 3 minutes. And I think when we adopt a system law, we don't have to rush. We need to talk about understanding what we're talking about, and by that, the law is extremely complicated. And it is clear that this law, when adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will not work unless we adopt a change to the Budget Code at the same time. This is going to be like the decisions made by the Supreme Council on the Education Act, and now we have mass appeals from, say, children's institutions, kindergartens about the failure to comply with the law on wage increases. Rather, this law reminds us of the law governing the system of basic higher education. There are many places where authority and authority can be extended, including the executive branch. Financing. It's multichannel, but if we don't clearly prescribe a second reading, it's going to lead to something like regional selfishness, where funding by local authorities of these institutions isn't going to happen, or it's going to happen exclusively in the part that they're interested in. And one more point: about the amount of autonomy. It's written more or less clearly in the area of responsibility, but it's not real about autonomy. And here the questions of the Ukrainian national deputies were right. And another point is the election of the heads of this facility. It should be clearly stated that if the team is determined, there is no need for ministries or departments to leave them to stretch out their people. And one more moment is the board of supervisors. In the form proposed, have the authority of overseers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u38	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u39	Supervisory advice, this law cannot work. If we want to have supervisory boards, we need to rewrite the standards contained in the Higher Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u40	Thank you. From the "Block of Peter Prashenko" to the word, Melnik Sergey Ivanovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, as you remember, in the formation of the state budget, we have increased funding by 800 million for the first and third levels of accreditation. And that's how we provided funding for 10 months this year. Technicians, colleges have 10 months of funding, and what's next? This is particularly true of those I-II accreditation facilities, which are structural subsections of the III-IV accreditation level. Today, one of the problems is that funding is done in preparation for bachelors. In fact, funding is supposed to be under the "Training for Junior Specialists" programme. I would like to address those present in this room who are graduates of technology or colleges. You don't know the price of this level of education, so when you work on these projects, you have to focus on financing. Both advanced vocational education and vocational education have a school component. And there's an educational subsidy that has to go into the school component. Today, parents, many parents who pay for their children’s contract education, also pay for their child’s education. That's not supposed to happen. There's got to be a regional order, there's got to be a government order and there's got to be an educational subsidy that's clearly considered if the kids of the senior school go to the I-II level of accreditation. So when I'm working on this, I'd like to ask the profile committee to pay particular attention to the financing issues, to settle these issues, otherwise no questions asked. The questions are organizational.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u42	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u43	The questions are organizationally more or less settled. Needs to settle the financing issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u44	Thank you. Comrades, I'm addressing you. I'll give you my word. I address all the deputies and heads of factions. We'll go to the vote at 17:10-17:15. I understand that the procedure is complete and many have been consulted. I ask everyone to return to the hall by 5:10 p.m. And I ask the heads of factions to mobilize the people's deputies, at 17:10 we will move on to making a decision. Now, from the Rebirth Group, I give the word Kulinich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u45	Thank you. Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, we are currently discussing extremely important bills, and this is not the first time, because the situation in the system of vocational education is extremely critical and difficult. Because there's no funding, no development strategies. For example, I get calls all the time, all the time in the district, the heads of these institutions, schools, technikums, worried about the huge problems that now exist. For example, for the last time, I've had a conversation with the head of the Homotechnological Veterinary College in Mortown. People are concerned: lack of funding, lack of a proper development of a material and technical base, it's a very difficult situation at all. Therefore, it is imperative that the bill that has the most support in the session room be supported. And it is imperative to vote on the amendments to the Code of Budgets because we must do so and lead to a logical conclusion so that the bill becomes law and works as a law. There must be normal funding. Now, the labor market is full of lawyers, full of other specialties, but it's very difficult for a professional worker to find in the agrarian field even on a normal and beautiful salary. It is therefore imperative to support these bills, the one with the greatest support, and to allow for the normal development of vocational and professional higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u46	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko is invited to the floor. Then it's Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u47	We support a bill that will allow for the development and financing of colleges and technology. At the same time, we don't think that's enough to restore the country's economy, to educate children, especially from many families, orphans, children from low-income families. Government authorities have signed a Memorandum on the Reduction of Budget Expenditure under the direction of the International Monetary Fund. And whose account is the reduction? Not at the expense of their own, but at the expense of those who cannot protect themselves, at the expense of families of peasants, workers, people of work, depriving them of the ability of their children to receive training, to obtain the baggage of knowledge that can then feed them in life. And that's why they canceled state funding for vocational and technical education, transferred it to local budgets. And what does local authorities do? They're closing down these facilities to save 3 kips. And no one thinks of an orphan, no one thinks of a peasant, no one thinks of a worker, no children looking for a place to make that miserable penny. Because the President's children are sitting in Parliament, and the children of workers and peasants are, at best, at the market or in Poland. That's why we require, apart from the adoption of a law that will ensure stable financing of vocational and technical education: colleges, technicians -- we require changes to the budget, the restoration of state funding for vocational and technical education. Not everyone can be a minister, a deputy, a prosecutor, or a judge. To be a strong country, we need fewer deputies, fewer prosecutors, fewer judges, more professionals, educated and highly paid to pay people a decent salary for their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u48	And from the factions, the closing statement is Vadim Ivchenko of Fatherland. And then it'll be nine minutes from the National Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u49	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, the bill is extremely necessary, and I am pleased that Vladimir Mikhailovich pointed out the weaknesses of the bill, which needs to be finalized, including the definition of changes to the budget code, and the funding to be paid for in order for the law to work. But I would like to make it clear what the status of these institutions will be, and the main thing is what educational programs are going to be. Why? Because, for example, agrarian vases are not prepared by anyone — both linguists, lawyers, urban builders, and journalists. But please tell us how these specialties affect the development of rural areas. In market conditions, I'm happy that we are today implementing a state-owned private partnership, let's say, in this teaching. But tell me, please, what are the vases to do, and what educational programs do they have to do to make them competitive so that they can come out ready for work in certain, say, businesses and organizations? It's important for us to keep pace with the changes. And I'll tell you what, the agrohholdings, for example, have already invented the Agrobits program. It's like "universal soldiers," where one person has all the functions: both audiences, and accountants, and lawyers. For example, an agronomist may also be a person who will be involved in veterinary medicine in the same enterprise. We need to think about how to raise professionals who will be able to make their own decisions, who will become hosts, who will know how to do business, and how to do business. They're such little businessmen. And that's where the government's spending is going to be. Experts who know how to create an enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u50	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u51	I'm glad that we're here to introduce the norms of the state-private partnership. I wanted money not only to be here, let's say, aboriginals or parents, so that there would be business, states, including aboriginals and parents, if they wanted to get quality vocational training, that is, a professional baccalaureate as a specialty in these schools. So we're going to work on the rights and we're going to add it to this state partnership.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u52	Thank you. So now there's going to be the last block of discussion -- speeches by national MPs, nine minutes. And at 5:10 p.m. I ask everyone to come to the session room to make a decision. I'd like you to record a statement from the National MPs for nine minutes. Please, the Fireplace of Taras Dmitrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u53	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Dear colleagues, no one in any way minimizes or hyperbolizes the importance and importance of the role of higher education in Ukraine. The question is, in order of day in hand with the people's deputies of Ukraine, there are three bills that are in their own right. Everyone in their own way is proposing their own vision of the development of one of the most important development chains in Ukraine: 8321, 8321-1, and the complementary option that we insist on, which is worth supporting, is 8321-d, which responds to all the challenges that have been able to become balanced, which offers its vision of the development of colleges and technology in Ukraine, which gives a real chance of developing education in Ukraine. It's consistent with the Education Act, the Higher Education Act, with other documents that require enormous support and meaning. So 8321-d, which is supported by our committee, is supported by our faction, and must become fundamental. I'm asking him to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u54	Shevchenko Viktor Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u55	I give the word to Irina Konstankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u56	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u57	Irina Konstanovic, 23th constituency. Volin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing all those who voted in favour of the Education Act, and I am addressing all those who have supported the changes in national education, and I am addressing all the national deputies who want Ukraine to have a competitive professional to have a worker who would have jobs here in Ukraine. In order for us to have such a specialist, we need to support Bill 8321-d, which will unite the hall. Because it's a bill that applies to future colleges and technology. And I want to stress: the future of the next. If we delay the discussion procedure, the fate of these institutions will be questioned. Therefore, with respect to my invitation to vote for this unifying bill, I also, along with this, urge you to join in the second reading and to submit your suggestions. Your voice will be heard and all the issues that still exist will be taken into account. At the same time, I would like to thank Mr. Marchenk Alexander Alexandrovich, who was the initiator of this great work on changes in the educational field. And I want to say that everything that has been done by a large group of national MPs will be included in further work on the bill. That's why we're voting for changes in colleges and techs, and a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u58	Thank you. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, I think only the blind and deaf have not heard of the suffering city of Smila in the Cherkas region in this hall. This once-in-a-lifetime flag of the food industry, the radio, the electronics, the mechanized industry, is essentially standing right now. But thanks to the personal efforts of the teachers of three of our colleges, the number one industrial base has been preserved. On the 19th, I'm sorry, on February 15, this year, 135 years of college food technology. This is the oldest college in our country, right next to the CD-ROM, the training and retraining center. You would see this equipment that they kept and wouldn't let it be stolen or stolen. Near the third college, industrial-economic. They're all asking you to vote on the bill. I will personally vote in favour of all three, hoping that we will give our employees and our young people a chance not to go abroad to sell themselves to Europe, but to create conditions for business development here in Ukraine. I support those colleagues who expressed their support for San Sanic Marchenko. He's a man who's been walking around this room for two years, convincing everyone to support this idea. So I hope that everyone who is having a meal right now, who is drinking tea, who has not arrived, will come back to this room, and we will have 226 votes for a key project that we should vote on at the height of our Supreme Council. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u60	Thank you. I want to confirm that all three bills will be put in line. And we have no castle, we have a lot of responsible work ahead of us for the Ukrainian people. Now there's actually going to be a last performance. I'm asking everyone to see who's not next door, invite them to the hall, colleagues. We're voting in three or four minutes. Look who's not around. Call me back. Please, Head Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u61	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Dear colleagues, this bill, which is written by Alexander Marchenko and 260 national MPs, is intended to support, first of all, this is our pre-professional technical education, understanding that it is a base, a foundation, in the activities and activities of the state. Because our largest capital with you is our nation, these are our children, this is its future. And when Ukrainian youths today do not see a prospect in our country, when our neighbors today offer them the best possible conditions, dragging them over, rebuking them, trying to assimilate them there, leaving them there and creating families there, that is a real blow to Ukrainian security, in our future. So our task to Parliament, and we, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, will support Bill 8321 to support our education, to support vocational and technical education that will enable us today to actually develop this direction, to create at the level of the state, to support educational institutions. Because today they have remained at ease, today they have thrown this burden on the shoulders of local self - rule. The so-called reform of Groysman, which led to the closing of schools today, and today neither teachers have a place of work, of course, and in the future and students have no place to study, that is a threat. So on our part, the state has to take care of this task and give it funding. And that's 7 billion today, not enough to finance vocational and technical education. I urge you to support this bill, give it life, give our young people a good education. Because today there is a sharp shortage of jobs for small and medium - sized businesses — not for locksmiths, not for plumbers, not for cookers, not for cranes. It's an acute problem, the country's economy can't rise if there are no specialists today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u62	And, colleagues, the closing statement is Ribczynski Evgen Yuriovich. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. It'll be a closing statement, then a vote. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please, Mr. Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u63	A very important topic for the country. And I'd like to give my word to my team, Labazuk Sergey Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u64	Sergey Labazuk, Hmelnickin, 188th District. Colleagues, we're looking at a very important bill right now. And really, we need to get as close as possible to everyone in the room and support the subject as possible. Because we realize that in recent years we have had an extremely difficult situation. And today, with the fact that we have more and more footage every year, and we have an extremely critical situation with the skills of the staff, it's related to the fact that education is underfunded today. And once again, I want to remind you what my colleagues were talking about today: there will be no funding for colleges in October. In principle, if there's anything left in the budget, they get it, it's unacceptable. We don't have the moral right today to leave just the key area of education that provides labor resources to our agrarian enterprises, to the agrarian state, to other sectors of the state that have the potential to develop, and we see that technology is moving faster than we are teaching our people, children, to enable them to really get a vocational education. Today we were approached by our colleagues, college leaders, heads of the trade unions, to really support a bill that is balanced, namely 8321-d. And the colleagues on the profile committee stressed how much work was done to find that optimal gold middle. I'm the co-author of Bill 8321, but I also want to agree that the balanced is exactly 8321-d. Therefore, I ask my colleagues to support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u65	Thank you. So the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come to work. Now the closing word is one minute of Spiowakovsky. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone out of bed to go back to the hall so I don't have to go back to the vote. I'm asking everyone who's in the classroom right now to come into the hall and take jobs. One minute, Spiowakovsky, closing word. And we vote, we take jobs. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, we've heard all your comments, the committee's heard them. We promise you, very clearly, if we vote positively today, tomorrow's committee meeting, we create a working group between the first and second readings, we invite all of you, all of you experts, to join in this work. We'll work between the first and the second readings, find things that don't satisfy you to compromise before the second reading. Dear colleagues, but if we now vote positively, we will have the opportunity by July to have a full, fine law on professional higher education, and from September 1st our technicians and colleges will feel at a protected legislative level. Vote, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u67	So we're voting, colleagues. Let me remind you, I'm going to put all three in sequence, but the committee is proposing to take the basis of the third, third, 8321-d. But I'll put it in sequence, first 21, then 21-1, and then the one who's offering the committee not to get confused. So go back to your jobs, colleagues, and I strongly ask who's in the corridors, go back to your jobs. And I put to the vote the first draft of the Professional Higher Education Act 8321, 21st. Please vote. The first is 21, not what the committee is offering. Vote. Vote, fellows! [[17:16:13]] For 181 The decision is not taken. The second is 8321-1, not recommended by the committee, not recommended by the committee. I'll put him to the vote. The committee proposes a third. 8321-1. Please vote. [[17:16:40]] For-129 The decision is not taken. And now, colleagues, the one offering the committee. Everyone, please take your jobs, please return to your seats, colleagues, please maximize your mobility. Please, colleagues, support your education, go back to your places. And I'm putting to the vote a draft law that is professionally superior to education, 8321-d, which is a committee of profile that offers us a basis. Please vote, please support, each voice has a weight, we will support Ukrainian education. Vote. Let's vote, let's vote! We vote, every voice, every colleague. [[17:17:37]] For 254 Decision taken. Hello! Colleagues, pay attention! Now I'm going to do this: I'm going to put all the local self-government issues on the rating vote. I'm asking everyone to be in the hall. The committee asked for a rating vote, and I'm asking everyone to be there to see what the state of those bills is. So I'm the first to vote on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government, 8369. The rating vote. Please vote, please support. Vote. Vote, rating vote. [[17:18:27]] For 193 Next. Draft Law on Principles for the Administration of Ukraine, 8051. The rating vote. Please vote, please support. [[17:18:51]] For 169 And the next one. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the strengthening of State guarantees for mountain and high-rise population centres, 6439-d. Please vote, please support, rating vote. Please vote. [[17:19:21]] For 197 I think we can get to the bottom of this. Mountain plains. The committee offers mountain habitats as well. So, colleagues, I have another question. Who wants us to consider the appointment of out - of - turn rural and village heads? Please hold a rating vote. Ratings, please support, colleagues, are local-head choices. The ratings vote is supported. Please vote. We're backing it up. This will be a very important and good sign as we open the way for elections today. [[17:20:08]] For 190 So we're in the process of reviewing draft Law 6439-d amending some of the laws of Ukraine on strengthening State guarantees for mountain and high-rise settlements. And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the reduced procedure. Vote. [[17:20:42]] For 155 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Fedorok Mikol Trochymovich to report. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u68	This bill, prepared by our committee, has brought together three bills, which have been prepared at various times by fellow MPs of Knyazicki, Sobolev, Rybak, Veliczovich, Lunk, Doubbenk, and introduced by Ivchenk, Krulk and Lopushanski. That is, this bill, prepared by our committee, brought all those proposals together. During the discussion of the drafts, the Committee concluded that they contained positions that regulate the same circle of issues and reiterate the substance of the position regarding the regulation of the same social relations, namely the strengthening of State guarantees for the socio-economic development of urban areas and, in accordance with article 100, part one of the Supreme Council Rules, were considered to be an alternative committee. What I'm saying is that this bill provides for: to separate up to a specific category of high-cities, which are located at a height of 600 meters and above sea level, provided that at least 50 percent of the agricultural conditions within the population are located on the slopes of 20 degrees and above, and also to strengthen the State guarantees for socio-economic development of these areas. Having discussed the issues in a comprehensive manner, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 2, of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, a draft of Ukraine’s Law amending certain laws on strengthening State guarantees for mountain and high-level population items submitted by the deputies. (registration number 6439) dated 12.05, introduced by the People’s Deputies of Knieżicki, Soboljev, Rybak, Wielichovich, Luczenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u69	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u70	The Supreme Council is also recommended to reject Bill No. 6520. And recommend to the Supreme Council to reject Bill 7038. And to bring to the attention of the Supreme Council a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the strengthening of State guarantees for mountain and high-rise settlements, prepared by the committee, to be adopted as a basis, united, so to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u71	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. From the "Fatherland" faction, Rybchin Alexei Mihajlovich. Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, this is really a unique law that takes into account the characteristics of people's lives, the functioning of agriculture in completely unique areas. Similar laws are applicable in virtually all countries, including the European Union, which have very high levels of population, because the characteristics of the establishment and the administrative and territorial structure, the features of education, pre-school education, medical institutions, the characteristics of the provision of services, the construction of roads, the whole of social infrastructure, are fundamentally different from other population sites that are not in such extreme conditions. Our bill takes only the first step, small but vital, so that those living in these incredible conditions do not abandon these settlements but allow them to develop, to receive decent education, to protect health, to have the same basic services that other communities use. This bill is really just the beginning. Yes, he needs extra expenses from the budget. But if we don't spend this extra budget, these settlements will disappear, we won't have such unique recreational zones, we won't have unique areas for rural green tourism, we just won't have people living in these populated areas. So the "Fatherland" faction, and I'm with my colleagues one of the co-authors of this law, having examined and seen for myself how people live in these areas, please support this bill and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u73	Thank you. From the People's Front, Mikola Knieżicki. He's actually the ideologist of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill, because it's a bill that concerns the lives of people that is really difficult. In the Ukrainian Carpathians, it was snowing a week ago. Unfortunately, on roads that are in a difficult state because they are being repaired, this process is happening, but no matter how much it may be, people could not even go to the district centers. In the Ukrainian Carpathians, as you have seen, not so long ago have people perished who came there to travel there because there are no roads between the villages. In the mountainous settlements that are far away from the district centers, you can't actually get people to the hospital, you can't have schools working properly, because children who live in preschool boarding schools, and the boarding schools are now closing down, they're walking to school from 10 to 15 kilometers. I very much ask you to support this bill, to support only the first reading. There's a representative of the Ministry of Regional Development, and we're working with the Ministry to work on the second reading to work out this bill and make it what social guarantees for citizens to keep, and encourage the development of business and investment in mountain settlements to support the creation of appropriate state programs. The People's Front faction will vote in favour of this law. Once again, I want to thank my colleagues from Self-Help, Fatherland, the Petra Prashenko Block, all the factions and groups that are present here in the hall that we worked with together on this law. This is a law that really has to unite us, because the lives of every Ukrainian, Oleg Lazko, thank you in particular, are very important to us in the life of every Ukrainian. And to preserve a unique mountain Ukrainian culture, to preserve the cultural heritage associated with both the names of John Frank and Gruszewski and Stefanik and many other Ukrainian writers, is our responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u75	Thank you. From Self-Help, Barezuk Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, this law is the law of Cherniewecki, Zakarpatski, Ivano-Frankivsky, Lviv oblasts that have these highlands. This law is only a first step toward understanding the needs of these areas, so that they can preserve the opportunity to live there and provide services for themselves and their guests. This law is for the preservation of both people and nature and infrastructure. This is a law that, perhaps for the first time in Ukrainian history, makes special things special. Another very important structural thing. This law for the first time rightly defines the category of altitude above sea level. Because you can live in a high - altitude area of 400, 500 meters, but you can live at altitudes of 600 and 700. And the apple is born quite differently, the potato is born quite differently at these altitudes, and survival at these altitudes is much more difficult. So, dear colleagues, I think that you and I today have to support people who create the authenticity of Ukrainian culture and live where it's not easy to live. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u77	Colleagues, there'll be a vote in five minutes. I ask all the heads of factions to invite as many deputies as possible into the hall. Now, from the Radical Party, Lensky passes the word to Oleg Laszko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u78	Oleg Lazko. We are the authors of this bill on State guarantees for mountain and high-rise settlements. This bill was registered in 2017, it was in Parliament for two years. Why was this important law in Parliament for two years? Because spam, thousands of people don't need bills. Someone's scratching, someone's stealing, someone's lobbying, and that's why high points are suffering, too, because for two years they couldn't get their hands on them. I hope this historic event will finally take place, for the first time in 30 years of the existence of the Ukrainian Parliament, where people live for our mountains, for our settlements, for the problems of the highlanders: Montenegro, Carpathian, Carpathian, Carpathian, Frankish - people live there, people like you. They are the only ones living very hard. In the mountains, the air is thin, the distances are high, the money is almost nowhere to be made, unlike the Parliament, and every day the money is scraped, and there is nothing to scratch in the mountains except hard work. Therefore, the law must be upheld and the budget should be supported by the highlanders. Honor and praise! And let them live to be 100 years old! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u79	Thank you. Colleagues, I just saw a couple of deputies come out. Please invite everyone from the towers into the hall. We're literally going to the vote in two or three minutes. I'll give Victor Pinzenik one minute and then Fish. And we're going to the vote. Please, 1 minute from the National MPs. Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, a fine law with a beautiful name. But let's look at the laws contained in the bill. First rule. It predicts that the State installs an allowance for the price of products purchased by the State. I want to inform you, the government has not been buying products for a long time, and it is being purchased by the operators. And if public authorities are purchasing products, there is a public procurement procedure. The other one. If we refer to the law in force, which provides that the State is obliged to supply supplies to such inhabited areas, we need to restore the state plan and the State Supply Committee. It's the third rule. Predicted payment of 50 percent of electricity. How many support systems will we have in Ukraine? We still have the subsidy system. If I buy a house in a beautiful picturesque corner of Carpathian, do I have to pay 50 percent regardless of my income? Next. The law provides for the establishment of coefficients for medical subsidies, and the adopted law on medical reform provides that we don't spend money on medical institutions, we pay for services. Next. The law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u81	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u82	The law sets charges to tariff rates 50 per cent higher for budget officials, including the territorial executive authorities. The law provides for a 50 - percent increase in pensions than in other regions of Ukraine. Please tell me, how do you explain that a population of 600 meters is 50 percent higher than a population of 20 meters below? I'm proposing to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u83	Thank you. And, colleagues, this is the closing act. From Peter Poshenko's Block. Two minutes to vote, colleagues. There were many and many communities in the mountains waiting for this law. And if we don't support it now because of lack of discipline, it'll be wrong. That's why I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please, two minutes, Fishbowl. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u84	Ivan Ribak, 202th constituency of Chernobyl. Lvivščina, Ivano-Frankovščina, Zakarpatanja, Černovetske region, Bukovina, and Crimea as well as the highlands of its region, will have some support thanks to the adoption of this law, which the Parliament of the Eighth Assembly has a chance to adopt here, in the walls of our Parliament, right now. In fact, this bill awaits tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, of highlanders. They live in difficult climatic conditions, where the duration of the winter period is much higher than in the plain territory of the Ukrainian State, where much more rainfall, where capital repairs require road infrastructure, schools, kindergartens, outpatients, hospitals, where it is very difficult to reach a kindergarten or school to date, and there are already school boarding schools, such as in Travelling or in the Highlands, and children just 20-30 kilometers to school can't reach. In fact, we need to make an effort to adopt this bill, and we need to ensure the social standards that we declare with you. Because the people who live there, in the mountains, are completely different. They go from 20 to 30 kilometers to the shops, 50 kilometers to the hospitals, and that's not possible under those conditions. I urge everyone to be indifferent to the inhabitants of the Ukrainian Carpathians and the Crimean High and to support this bill at least on the basis of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u85	Thank you. Just don't leave the hall, come back, colleagues. "The opposition block" requires a word, I have to give it a minute. Please turn on the microphone. And I'm going to ask you to take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u86	Alexander Doubenkov, Opposition Block. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! We respect the citizens living in the highlands of the Carpathians and the Crimean Mountains. But at the same time, we're against giving any preference to wage, pension and other forms of social security. It is reported here that people in high places live in difficult climate conditions. In what difficult environment do the people of Donbas, Mariupol, Horn of the Curve live in, or do they have an ecological resort? Don't they deserve any extras at all? We advocate that, along with increasing the corresponding population ratios, the population also be increased to the appropriate size for those living in difficult environmental conditions. So we ask that we return it to the first reading. We will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u87	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Once again, a huge number of communities are awaiting our decision. I'm asking you to return to the hall. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on strengthening State guarantees for mountain and high-rise population sites (6439-d). Just on the ground, colleagues. All adjustments can be made in preparation for the second. Please return to the hall. So we vote on the basis. We're backing it up. We vote in agreement, responsibly. Vote. Every voice matters. [[17:38:49]] For 193 I'll be back. Colleagues, I emphasize, we're going to create a task force. We can work on the second reading. It's just a base, it's just a base. Colleagues, I'll be right back. I'm asking you to support everyone, colleagues. It's very important. There are voices in the hall. So please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the proposal. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on strengthening State guarantees for mountain and high-level population sites (6439-d) for a return to voting on a basis. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, every voice. Vote. We're backing it up. Vote. [[17:40:18]] For a hundred and Guys, I'll put it back on. Colleagues, let's remobilize first then. I'll put the return again, if I don't, on the first. So once again, I'm going to put the return again, and then I'm going to base it. So I'm going to put it again. Who's in favour of going back to voting as a basis, please vote. Anyone for the return, please vote. To return. [[17:40:59]] For 196 And now, colleagues, I'm making the following suggestion: to return to the committee to prepare for the re-reading so that we don't lose the bill. Everyone, please mobilize. Do you take that position? Do you support me, Oksana? Do you support again? All of it. Let's do it again, shall we? You'll support it. All right, colleagues, let's mobilize and, again, first of all, to the committee. Because if we were to reject it in general, it would be a very bad sign for our citizens. Colleagues, come on, I'm voting for a proposal that the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on strengthening State guarantees for mountain and high-rise population sites (6439-d) should be returned to the Committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. We're voting in a band. We support, colleagues, every voice matters. [[17:42:09]] For 215 A few votes were not enough. Come on, guys. We didn't make it? We're going to mobilize. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm asking everyone to come back to work. Colleagues, don't debate the voting. Stay in the workplace. I'm asking everyone to support us so that we don't lose the bill. I'm asking you very much, colleagues, this is not about politics. By factions, please show me. The factions of the last vote. Peter Dustenka's Block - 69. I think we can do more. People's Front - 53, Opposition Block - 12, Self-Help - 15, Radical Party - 17, Father's Party - 9, People's Will - 4, Rebirth Party - 6, non-fractional - 30. So, colleagues, I ask you all to mobilize and please support your return to the committee for your first reading. This is a totally acceptable position, completely acceptable. And I'm asking you, colleagues, back up. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal that we return the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on strengthening state guarantees for mountain and high-rise population sites (No. 6439-d) to the committee for the preparation of the first reading. Please vote and please support. Vote. First for the return, then for the vote. The first is a return to the vote. Vote. Vote for the return, colleagues. [[17:44:07]] For 232 We're back. And now I'm putting 6432d on the committee for the first time again. Sergei, come back, please! Mr. Sergei, come back! Vote. So 6439-d is a committee for re-reading. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. And thank you all for understanding. [[17:44:44]] For 231 Decision taken. We didn't lose the bill. I'm asking the committee to look into it. And I'm asking for factions. Decision taken. The factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 75, "National Front" – 58, "Opposition Block" – 17, "self-help" – 15, "Radical Party – 18, "Fathership" – 9, "will of the people" – 5, "Rebirth" – 4, "non-factional" – 30. And, colleagues, I will again appeal to you for a rating vote on the appointment of out-of-court rural and village heads. Colleagues, it's out of politics, it's the choices of rural and village heads. I'm asking you, there are enough votes in the room, I'm going to put you to a rating vote, please support this. So, colleagues, I'm announcing the transition to the question of the appointment of out-of-order rural and rural head elections. And I invite the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, Boyko Olenna Petrovna, to report. Please find the right words for the hall. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. "Arrow," 18th, go back to the hall, go back to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u88	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, Local Self-Government proposes to consider draft decrees on the appointment of out-of-order elections for individual rural and rural heads in connection with the early termination of their powers on the basis of article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. I note that the projects offer a different date for the election, taking into account the dates of the committee meetings and the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Local Elections. In this regard, the committee proposes to appoint individual rural and rural heads on Sunday, October 27, 2019, by adopting draft regulations on the basis and, in general, by modifying their earlier date. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention. And from myself. Dear colleagues, this is our duty, this is the imperative norm of the Supreme Council. Please support all decisions regarding the appointment of out-of-charge elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-14-m1.u89	So, colleagues, Boyko Helena Petrovna has explained to you the importance of this issue. Now I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'll put the ratings first. First rating. Please come into everyone's room and take up jobs. I'm talking to people who are right now near the government's bed. Mr. Hennaday, ask everyone to take up their jobs. Ask everyone to take up their jobs. I'm going to put the question of the selection of rural and rural heads on the ranking vote. I want to let you know that the committee has done a great deal of work and has chosen those draft regulations that have no conflict, where there are no misunderstandings, where there are no political differences. This is (I'll read it out), this is a draft decree on the Fastev region, the Suma region, the Kyiv region, the Kharkiv region, the Chernivs. All the regions, all the colleagues, all the regions. It's a single decision. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm putting the rating vote first. We'll never vote like that. Colleagues, now I'm going to call it by name. Until you move away from the presidency, we won't have a chance to hold the election. Go back to work. I'm asking you to go back to work. This is about the election of local heads, colleagues. Local communities are looking forward to it. Why should I beg you? You need to understand the importance of this question. So, colleagues, I'm betting on a rating vote. So I'm going to put the overall rating. If there are votes, then each decree is separate. Now we count every vote. So I'm putting up a rating vote. If there are votes, I put every decision to the vote. I'm betting on the rating vote to support the appointment of out-of-court rural and village heads. Please vote. Please be supportive. The rating vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We vote in favour, we support, we support local communities waiting for our decision. [[17:50:07]] For-166 I'll do it again, colleagues. I'll do it again. I see a few deputies have arrived. Colleagues, take up jobs, I'm re-voting in support of the decision to elect out-of-order rural and village heads. Please vote, please support the vote, please vote. [[17:50:42]] For-167 That's impossible. Colleagues, another rating vote on the next bill. If there's support, we go in, we don't go in. Next is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to promote space activities and attract investment in the space sector of Ukraine (9219). He's next in line, I'll just put him on the ratings. If there are voices, we'll be able to accept it right now, if there are no votes, we're closing. So, colleagues, I place a rating vote in support of the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine on promoting space activities and investing in the space sector of Ukraine (9219). Rating vote, please vote, please support. Vote, rating vote, please support, rating vote. [[17:51:48]] For-166 166. But this is the ground for analysis. Colleagues, we're in fact not able to consider this law, because there's only five minutes left, we couldn't have had time to consider it. But nevertheless, today we have adopted an extremely important education law, on education reform, and we have also made a very important decision to support our Ukrainian museums. But most importantly, we have today unlocked the signing of the Law on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language, and that was a key decision of this day. Once again, I welcome that important decision of the state. And I'm sure the President of Ukraine will sign this law soon. And there will be an immediate release of the Voice of Ukraine so that it can be published and there can be no doubt about the fact that the law will become valid. So, colleagues, thank you all for the fruitful work of this day. And I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. Thank you. And good-bye.
