ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Colleagues, take up your jobs. So, please prepare for registration and please register. Let's register, colleagues. [[10:04:06]] 340 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleagues in Tetjana Nikolayevna Blackwall. Welcome to Mrs. Tetian's birthday. Also today is the birthday of Sergio Petrovich Labazuk. Hello, Mr. Sergio. And Igor Fedorovich Motka. Welcome to our nouns! And today, exactly 5 years ago, on June 4, 2014, the forces of the anti-terrorist operation liberated the city of Red Lyman of the Donetsk region from Russian occupations and restored Lyman to peace and tranquillity. We remember those days, remember the days of our victories, the great victories of the Ukrainian army. And I'm sure we still have a lot of victories ahead of us and the liberation of all our occupied territories by the Russian invader. And, colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have completed the previous plenary week by considering draft Law 6527. And today, after the factions and groups, we will continue to consider this bill, and then we have a block of laws that we've included in the agenda of the previous plenary session. Under these laws, there was support for all factions in the hall: this and 10004 to increase responsibility for baseless refusal to pay for the transfer of individual categories of citizens; this and 10131 to increase responsibility for breaches of safety belt rules. And I hope that today we will be able to support them unanimously, as well as the cluster of issues of local self-government. And that's why I'm addressing the factions' heads to maximize national MPs. Today, too, we will go to the consideration of the Law on Temporary Commissions and Temporary Special Commissions. The apparatus has prepared appropriate tables, they will be distributed in the hall, and today we will be able to start a review of this large-scale bill with the expectation that on Sunday we will be able to complete its consideration on Thursday, i.e. finish its consideration, and on Thursday we will go to the Open List Electoral Code. I call on everyone to work productively and systematically. And now I'm asking all the factions and groups to record statements from factions and groups. Please record. From the Self-Help faction to the word, Captain Olena Sergiyevna is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u2	Good morning! Mr. Chairman, I'm actually surprised that we didn't start our session from a terrible event that is now just shaking the whole of Ukraine. You know, literally two days ago, the police, being completely capable of, well, sorry, total drunkenness, playing with guns, killed a guy, five-year-old boy. Then, when he was taken to the hospital, an operating group who had arrived at the scene in some strange way determined that the injuries had been sustained as a result of a mechanical impact, that is, the child had fallen and suffered such injuries. This means that the police were actually trying to cover up the crime, they were trying to build up their colleagues. Two days of absolute, excuse me, running away from the National Police, no adequate response until yesterday the public went to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and we didn't start demanding, firstly, retraining, because they wanted to qualify it as a crime of negligence; secondly, the transfer to the State Bureau of Investigation because the police wanted to investigate themselves; thirdly, the selection of a precautionary measure was not a domestic arrest, as they wanted to do first in the prosecution, but rather a stand-up. The public demands punishment because it does not kill. Today, there will be shares all over Ukraine under all police stations. If you think the resignations of the Kyiv County Chief are enough, it's not enough. They're supposed to be responsible for the prosecution because they also took part in all of this, the IMF, the National Police. Mr. Chairman, I ask you, I think this is an unprecedented story that can have very uncontrollable consequences throughout the country. People seriously, they're not easily concerned, they're completely angry at what happened, because the system covers itself, because it's not reformed. That's why we need to call here the Minister of Internal Affairs, Mr. Knaziev, the head of the National Police, the Attorney General, and the head of the D.B.I. to report to us on the possibility of conducting this investigation completely independently and uninvolved. And we have to ask the question of political responsibility both by the minister and by the head of the National Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u3	From the "Fatherland" faction to the word, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u4	The tragic event that has taken place, I think, cannot escape the situation in Parliament. That's why our faction supports the proposal to call the Prince, the chief of police, the Attorney General, who is speaking only on political orders, and here he is silent as if he's got water in his mouth, Mr. Lucenko, and Trubu, so that they can report to Parliament if they haven't done it on public air by now, as they should have done. The other one. I think, and the faction thinks that this disgraceful policy that is now taking place after the collapse of the elections is not assigned to the key positions of those who, according to the Constitution, are the direct sphere of responsibility of the President of Ukraine, this is the deliberate inhibition of any policy in Ukraine. Today the new president is in Brussels. Please tell me, who prepared all the materials for him? Klimkin, who is still in office and pretending that nothing happened? And Parliament, instead of starting today's session with the resignation of the foreign minister, the defence minister, the head of the Security Service, makes it appear that nothing is happening in the middle room. Our position, the Fatherland factions, is clear. There are constitutional powers of the President, and they are not in how to share the Antimonopoly Committee and other regulators, what Dustenko has been doing since the first day he came here. The President’s direct constitutional responsibilities are matters of foreign affairs, and the appointment of a foreign minister and the resignation of an acting minister must be decided immediately. It's a matter of defense and it's a matter of the Security Service. That's why we're talking to Parliament, to Parliament's leadership. Please draw up a Parliamentary work schedule in such a way that the continuity of power is clearly maintained both in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. This will be the best way for society to feel that the changes that have begun are not just the movement of chairs, but they are real changes that open up to everyone, and everyone has the right to constitutionalize his or her responsibilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u5	Thank you. From the Opposition Block to the word, Wilkul Alexander Yuriovich is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u6	Good afternoon, reverend people of Ukraine! Seventy - three percent of Ukrainians voted in favour of changing the external and internal course. Seventy - three percent of the Ukrainians voted against the looting of the Dustenka gang. Seventy-three percent of the Ukrainians voted in favour of ending the exile and strengthening the national radical and other paramilitar formations. But I still don't understand exactly where our nation's going to go. The question of peace, the establishment of peace, has been passed on to an incomprehensible term. There are no direct negotiations, no negotiations, no demands of the people of Ukraine. Neither mine, nor nor nor nor nor any other format, nothing works. What do we see? We see the same policy. The Donbas blockade is unstoppable, and the President can make it his order. The order was imposed by the Donbas blockade, now President Zelensky can cancel this order and remove both energy and transport, and economic and humanitarian blockade of Donbass as the first step towards establishing peace. The other one. People didn't vote, that 73 percent, for killing children. A five - year - old boy and the entire system are working to cover up the abuse. There's no President's reaction. People didn't vote in favour of radical national formations, of all the arts and colors. When the monument to the Zhukov’s victory was demolished in Kharkiv and there was no President’s reaction, Ukrainians who voted for Vladimir Zelensky did not understand that. When tariffs for gas for the population were again raised from June 1 by 5.2 percent, Ukraine did not vote for this. I remind you once again that the President has every authority to suspend any government order. The president can now by his decree cancel the tariff hikes, those that were today and six months ago, and the tariffs will automatically fall. I call for work, I call for Parliament to work, I call for the President to work, lower tariffs, go to direct negotiations, remove governors (no one has changed), start changing the force at the center, and change something, and there can't be a disgraceful policy of Dusty. This is what we, our faction, demand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u7	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u8	Once again, we need to change, go to direct negotiations, end the war, lower tariffs. This is what our faction demands, the entire people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u9	From the Peter Prashenko Block to the word, the head of the Arthur Gerasimov faction is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u10	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! Yesterday the whole country was shocked by the news of the death of a five - year - old boy wounded by a drunken police officer in Kiev. Our faction expresses Cyril’s most heartfelt sympathy. And we require the law enforcement agencies to investigate and punish those responsible for the child’s death and the political punishment for those who have covered or contributed to it. Last week, as you know, a meeting of the updated European Solidarity Party, the leader of which was unanimously elected Peter Prashenko. The European Solidarity Party presents an important challenge: to unite around a common strategy for the development of a strong European state of all Ukrainians. There are also party primaries that will result in an electoral list of the updated European Solidarity Party. In fact, our political power is shaping the future composition of the European Solidarity faction together with the public and under the control of society. Using the powerful authority of Peter Prashenko among Ukraine's foreign allies and partners, the EU party will effectively continue its course of full membership in NATO and the European Union, constitutionally anchored by Parliament for the initiatives of Peter Prashenko. Because it is the European Union's standards that lead to the growth of the economy and the growth of the welfare of citizens, because it is NATO standards that increase the effectiveness of our resistance to the enemy. Today, it is our duty to protect and strengthen the conquests that have been won during the most difficult years of independence. But the statements of some of the comrades of the newly elected president and supporters of the rematch cause deep concern. The situation complicates the uncertainty of Mr. Zelensky himself on many strategic issues. We have heard many statements by representatives of the newly elected President regarding the Ukraine default, the referendum on surrender, the distinction between language law and quotas, doubts about the final goal of the Kremlin in Ukraine, but we have not heard any clear position from Vladimir Greene's own mouth on these issues. Today will be the first foreign visit to Vladimir Zelensky, which will take place in Brussels. The capital of the European Union is certainly not a place for the vague blurry position of the Ukrainian President. We expect not only to confirm the Euro integration course of the newly elected Head of State, but we want to see concrete steps in this direction as quickly as possible. A recent story is to be kept in mind when Yanukovich almost began the rebirth of the Soviet Union in Ukraine by talking about Euro-integration. And about the order of the day. Our faction considers it crucial at this plenary week to adopt a bill on the interim commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is particularly important in view of the situation in Kiev and the beginning of the electoral code, which will be opened, I stress, open lists during elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u11	Bondar Victor Vasilovich is invited to attend the Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u12	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I have certainly read, like all of you, the agenda that we have been offered for this plenary week. I want to say that 80 percent of the questions don't have that kind of social pressure, and they don't really matter to people. The question of how to use safety belts, the other questions, they're important, too, should be considered, but that's not what people are expecting today. I propose to change the order of the day and yet key issues now: the bill on the President's impeachment, the bill on the interim commission of inquiry, the bill on the removal of parliamentary immunity, the inviolability of presidents, judges, others who have the right to do so. And these questions that people are waiting for, they would be the most important. The second block I propose, however, is to set up our draft regulation, which cancels these robbing tariffs that exist today in Ukraine for Ukrainians: tariffs on gas, which are already twice as high today as the tariffs on gas in Europe and the cost of gas on European hubs; tariffs on electricity, which the government and the current coalition will try to raise by 30 percent at least from 1 July by introducing the so-called free electricity market. These questions need immediate consideration. We can now vote in the hall and ensure the calm of the citizens of Ukraine, ensure that these robbing tariffs are stopped on gas and on electricity offered from July 1st. That would be an effective response from the Supreme Council and an active work. And the third. I know that there are a lot of people in the hall today who are paddling, walking, looking for mechanisms, how to push on the Constitutional Court and force them to review the question of holding early elections. I mean, it's absolutely, your position, it's ridiculous and there's no perspective. I think the Constitutional Court will not go against the will of the people and understand that today's elections are necessary. Those MPs who work with their constituencies, who work with their electorates, know people, meet, they have the right, and they can boldly go to the polls and not be afraid of these elections. And let the people reaffirm their mandate of trust and affirm their right to be deputies. And those who don't see anyone, talk about people, don't meet people, don't worry about how they live, what pensions they pay, what with the tariffs, how the government works, how the government allocates to the region, how the decentralization goes, how much money comes, these deputies never pass, and thank God. So, my dears, you don't have to look for opportunities, you don't have to press the Constitutional Court, your story won't go away. Everyone for the election, and we will end this disgraceful story of this Supreme Council. As long as it is possible, it is possible to resolve the questions that he has discussed from the outset within a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u13	From the Radical Party to the word Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u14	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Before you go to the polls, do something good for people. From June 1, gas prices rose again. In Europe, the lowest price of gas in the last three years and in Ukraine, the price of gas is raised for Ukrainians and industrial enterprises. Why? Because Ukraine has signed a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, and the blind implementation of this memorandum has led the country to the margin of default, to unfair gas prices, to the cessation of industrial enterprises, to the mass poverty of Ukrainians. And what do we see? Last week, President Zelenski is meeting with the IMF mission and tells us that they will continue the same policy that was pursued by President Poroshenko. As far as I can remember from the movie "Slut of the Nation," or freak, the Greens hero sent the IMF, and President Zelensky, on the other hand, continues to meet these dragon requirements that make Ukraine want to take the land. They've turned the country into a raw colony when we export, and the world's first record is when we export cheap labor and raw materials. During the war, the Germans carried out the export and the export of the land in the trunks of the ostriches. The policies of the IMF's respective memorandum do the same: they take away the future in Ukraine -- economic development, progress and the ability to become strong. They put drugs on the needle so as not to let them die, but to deprive them of any chance of standing firm and developing. And so the rise in gas prices in Ukraine at a time when gas prices are falling all over the world, and above all in Europe, where we seem to be buying this gas, is proof that prices for gas in Ukraine are unfair, unmarketable and that they do not match reality. We're asking President Zelensky instead of blindly implementing the IMF memorandum and seeking the Ukrainian economy and creating even greater community poverty, he has to cancel the government's decision to raise gas prices and demand a review of the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. What are they going to talk about today in Brussels on their first visit to Greensky? The people are talking about what Zelensky is going to fly into, in the economy class, in the business class or something. It doesn't matter what he's going to fly on, although in the luggage compartment, though in the broom, it's important what he's going to talk about there. What do we suggest for the President to discuss in Brussels? The first is the continuation of sanctions against Russia for aggression against Ukraine. The second is a review of the trade part of the Association Agreement so that 8 billion dollars at least our producers can make extra money. To cancel low-end quotas, especially for our domestic farmers. The third is a united effort to resist construction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u15	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u16	The third topic to be raised by President Zelenski in Brussels is the unification of Europe's efforts to counter the construction of North Stream-2, which deprives Ukraine of $3 billion in foreign exchange revenue per year and transit status, and threatens not only energy security but national security. We very much hope that Ukraine’s national interests will stand in Brussels.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u17	Thank you. So the factions are finished. They all did, didn't they? Ah, excuse me, there's another closing statement from the People's Front, and then we move on to the agenda. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, from the People's Front faction, I express my sincere sympathy to the relatives of Kiril Tlyavov. This is an indescribable loss. Each of us lacks words. Unlike the former police, the national police will not hide or hide anything because zero tolerance for the suspects in the chase is full of openness and lack of a circular message. All the necessary primary police investigations are carried out, including arresting suspected police officers. All materials are transferred to the State Bureau of Investigation for full and objective investigation. Procedural guidance is provided by the Attorney General's Office. Police chief Dmitry Czenov, who is responsible for the actions of the subordinates, resigned and requested that the service continue to transfer him to the most difficult areas of the POS area. The guilty of the death of 5-year-old Cyril will suffer the most severe punishment. Once again, we show compassion to our family. Today, the Constitutional Court will be determined by the form of hearing a case concerning the conformity of the President's Basic Law decree on the dissolution of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call. The People's Front faction as the initiator of the submission underlines that there was no legal basis for the dissolution of Parliament and there was no legal basis. In our view, it is a deliberate violation of the Constitution by the highest official of the State. It's a very dangerous precedent. If we allow a violation of the Constitution in such a matter as the dissolution of parliament, disregard of the Basic Law may become systematic tomorrow. We appeal to the Constitutional Court to consider the urgency of the matter and to consider our appeal for an expedited procedure. The country waits for a court decision in the near future. The appointment of temporary elections, contrary to the Constitution, has already resulted in the spending of budgetary resources. All those involved in the preparations for the elections planned that the parliamentary elections would take place in the yellow and would be a turn, not an avalanche three months earlier in the summer. Moreover, once again, there was no legal basis for the dissolution of the Supreme Council and there was no legal basis. Next. The People's Front will support the Interim Commissions Act. The bill proposes to regulate the legal status and order of the temporary commission of inquiry and the temporary special commissions, to strengthen the functions of parliamentary control and the mechanism of the President's impeachment. It can be said that before that, the Supreme Council had gone through all eight of its calls because the impeachment procedures had not yet been prescribed in Ukrainian legislation. The Constitution of Ukraine defines impeachment as a special procedure for bringing responsibility to the President of Ukraine, but article 111 of the Constitution provides only grounds for impeachment by the President of Ukraine if he commits a treason or other crime. Thus, by the year 28 of our nation’s Common Era, the time had come for a temporary suspension of the President’s authority. May I continue?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u19	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u20	In a democratic state, the impeachment procedure should have a legislative basis. We will support the TSC Act. And I'm talking to my fellow MPs: the election is an election, but the work in the session room needs to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u21	Thank you. So, statements from factions, groups are complete. We have another statement from the Opposition Block and Rebirth faction. They are willing to replace it with a speech from the rostrum and delegate the word to Vladimir Litvina. And after that, let's move on to the first draft of the law of today's agenda. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, apparently, have prolonged power changes, and this affects the fact that no one cares about people at all, people’s problems are not of interest. Insurrection in places is totally dominant. A simple example. Yemeni district of Žitomir district As a result of the use of air from chemicals for the processing of fields, the villages of Sadka, Wednesday, Pokostov, Zaporda, Prosika have been bountifully sprayed. People can't reach out to anyone, not to mention that the docking areas have gone missing. But the main thing is that people feel very bad, especially children and the elderly. Neither local authorities nor central authorities can be reached. I call on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine: immediately send environmental experts, have the National Police and the Attorney General investigate all these facts, the Ministry of Health, take the necessary measures to examine and assist people. This needs to be done immediately, it needs to be done immediately. And the second question, dear colleagues. The school year is now ending. We're going, we're going to welcome the kids, especially now, in the electoral campaign. But let's think about the fact that the teaching process may not start in the fall, because the laws on the pay of teachers are not being implemented at all, article 61 of the Education Act. In particular, the Committee considered the legislative initiative of the National Deputies to adopt the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Education Act on Paying Teachers and Educators per Month Allowance for Presence at least 5 to 30 per cent. The law provides for only 30 percent. I would very much ask the Head, you honourable national deputies, to consider and make this decision. It is necessary today, since in the fall there is a threat that teachers will mass refuse to attend the school year. And to the end. I ask for the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 9406 on amending certain Ukrainian laws on the continuous supply of electricity to utilities and the adjustment of prices/tariffs for utilities. This is absolutely necessary because we're going to collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u23	So, colleagues, we can move on to the issues of order of the day. And I remind you once again that we completed the previous plenary week by considering the draft Law on Agricultural Cooperation (6527) and the alternative bills to it. An extremely important bill that strengthens and gives preference to a small and medium-sized agricultural producer. And I hope that we can mobilize the Hall to support it. The next chapter we have to consider is statements from factions, then statements from deputies, closing words and voting. And I hope that in the course of our discussion, we will be able to maximize the room to make a positive decision. So I'm announcing a statement from factions under bill 6527. Please hold the recording. From the Radical Party to the word Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u24	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Last weekend, I was in the village of Liszivka in Luhansk, where I met with my countrymen, particularly the family of Svetlana and Vladimir Tarasenko, with 12 cows. This 12 - cow - holding family did not receive a single penny of government support. Where they did not go, no one gave anything: no dairy equipment, no refrigeration plant, no cow subsidies. They try to earn their own money, turn around like cursed ones, drive around in the neighborhood, and trade to earn money and feed their families. Similarly, I met a many - year - old family in Poltavishland, where six cows hold this beautiful family, and so no support. And I brought the natives to Luhansk and to Poltavščina, and I brought them in on the larder. But we can't give it to everyone on the uterine apparatus, it's got to be a state policy to support farmers. Today, in the village, there are broken windows and empty houses across one house. And you have to pay space money for the transformation of your home. And then we wonder what people aren't in the village. Because there is no support for the state, no work, no cow. What does today’s authorities offer? The same thing that powdered past is selling the land. Instead of giving the Tarasenko family at least 5,000 dollars per cow, a dairy plant, a refrigeration plant, an opportunity to sell their produce, they want to sell the land. In the same region of Belarus, people in Luhansk put milk in Markovka, God knows where the milk is coming from, and the debt for the milk placed under a million dollars goes into debt. How can we survive the family that has not been paid for months by those miserable 4 bracelets per liter of milk? How can you feed your family? Therefore, Zelensky continues the same policy he wanted to do today: sell the land because a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund requires that. And instead of reviewing the memorandum, instead of changing state policy, giving grants to our farmers, these families, who are the last to believe in Ukraine, believe in the village, the authorities want to take the land. We didn't let the powder do this, we didn't let the sale of land in Parliament, we wouldn't let Zelenski do it. I want to warn the Ukrainians: the next parliamentary election is a battle for the country to which the Ukrainian land will belong. They, Zelensky, Dusty and all this company of latifundists, they want to sell land to foreigners. The sale of land to foreigners is the sale of Ukraine, it's the sale of Ukrainian peasants, it's the absence of cows in the village and the absence of Ukrainian villages. We're offering an alternative, we're going to Parliament, we're going to win this fight, we're not going to sell the land to foreigners, we're going to return to the village of life, people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u25	It is called upon to present the position of the Fatherland faction, National Deputy Yuri Odarchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I am a elected MP from the Herson region, and I can now make clear the consequences of what is happening in the village today. Now there's a lot of talk about what seems to be a very positive consequence of decentralization, which has led to the frenzied development of the village. But I think those who report this don't investigate this issue, and in fact they're just propaganda statements that are not based on any economic analysis. This is essentially not decentralisation, but the enormity of rural councils, the destruction of the Ukrainian settlement network. And what is happening on the body of the destruction of this settlement network? People who work in rural areas who have pies of land are forced to give them up at the expense of the latifundists. I purposely took here to speak to the Supreme Council on contracts that were made for land rentals. And we can see here that a thousand dollars per hectare of irrigation land in the Herson region is being paid to latifundists. And the contracts are signed for 199 years. This is because a man in a village begs for money because there is no policy in the country to give a peasant a chance to earn money. And cooperation, to our belief, is a very serious method for people to get more money. I can give you a simple example. So if you look at Hersonschino, the Goloprist region where potatoes are grown, the person who rents it gets a thousand dollars out of a hectare. If she's growing potatoes, she can get up to 30 to 50,000 dollars per hectare. It turns out that the State is consciously failing to pursue policies aimed at developing cooperation so that people can unite, get a phytosanitary passport, and sell this potato, for example, for export. If it's for export, it's no longer 50 or 30 thousand, as in Ukraine, it's already 100,000 profits. So the development of co-operation is a very important topic that will allow the rural population to get not a thousand dollars per hectare, but 20 to 30,000 dollars of revenue if they unite. In her time, Julia Timoshenko began a serious movement toward cooperation. And dairy cooperatives were made, and they're still working in Hersonian today. Regrettably, though, the State does not carry out any explanatory work that would allow people to unite and receive real, deserved profits from their activities on earth. We are convinced that this is happening to the Latifundists who are now interested in giving up the peasant for a thousand dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u27	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u28	For a thousand dollars in rent, the land area, and large agromonopolies, they grew technical crops without developing rural infrastructure. And so, to our belief, decentralization in this way, the attitude towards cooperatives, they only show that the past power destroyed the village, destroyed the settlement network. The law on cooperation allows peasants to make real profits, it's a positive movement. We support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u29	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. And from the Self-Help faction, Simeonach is invited to the word. Please, Mr. Roman, you will present your position, from a place of political power. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u30	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, we have finally come to consider this important legislative initiative. Because today’s legislation does not allow for effective use of the model of cooperation. Fifty percent of existing cooperatives do not work at all, and those who work are not effective. In the cooperative movement, think about it, there are seven hundred percent in Ukraine today. And the absurdity of today’s regulations, the rigid requirements, the distribution, the participants see no point in establishing cooperatives today. Hence, these associations do not really have a significant impact on the agricultural sector. But the very idea of farming is to develop self-governance, to increase the wealth of communities, to save the resources of members of such cooperatives and, above all, to protect the economic interests of members of cooperatives. The Law in force on agriculture limits the activities of cooperatives, particularly those serving. Operations can only be performed by members of a cooperative, property ownership and implementation on behalf of a cooperative is prohibited. Payments on pies and their return in the event of liquidation are not possible at all. So market opportunities are very limited in cooperatives today. The bill introduces the principle of a new system of agricultural cooperatives. The principle of managing a cooperative in the text of Bill 6527 is consistent with the principles of cooperation of the International Cooperative Alliance. I think it's a really good basis for Ukrainian legislation. The bill leaves two types of distribution of cooperatives: manufacturing and maintenance. Because the ultimate goal is to discover new resources for cooperatives, for example, to create joint development funds, to expand the circle of people that you can work with. However, the draft law contains certain risks, such as the adoption of a bill, which may create conditions for optimizing the payment of the only social contribution and income tax for natural persons. In particular, members of the cooperative also receive cooperative payments for employment. The size of such cooperative payments is determined in proportion to the employment of a member of the cooperative in accordance with the rules of the domestic agricultural activity of the agricultural cooperative. I mean, respectable colleagues, working relationships can actually be replaced by cooperatives. As a result, cooperative payments are derived from the EU’s and VAT bases and are not included in the calculation of the total monthly tax revenue. So I think that the profile committee is obliged to remove these risks in the second reading, and in the first reading, of course, Bill 6527-d deserves support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u31	Thank you, Your Honor. And here's a word for Victor Pinzenik, who represents the position of the faction of Peter Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u32	Dear colleagues! Obviously, there is no person in this room who would not support the idea of developing a cooperative movement in Ukraine. This is an important tool for the development of the Ukrainian village. However, there are some standards that are of great concern to me and that can turn cooperatives into offshores, not somewhere else, on atolls or islands, but in our native Ukraine. I would like to pay attention to the standards that apply to taxation that my previous colleague mentioned. First rule. There is a broad interpretation of the norm of "co-operative wage for participation." Well, if we think about it, "for the job," then "for the job participation, the only pay that has to be is the salary. The existence of a "participation payment" rule makes sense because, according to the laws of law, participation is not subject to taxation, i.e. the EU is not paid to the Pension Fund, no income tax is paid, no military assembly is paid. Where do you think the workers of some large Ukrainian agroholdings will appear tomorrow who will receive, not wages, but something else? I want to compliment the agrarian committee. He heard the warnings I was making, and he was ready to respond to them on the first reading, if you remember the speech of our agrarian committee colleagues. The only request I want to make. Even in the basic law, there is a problem, and the reference to "remuneration payments" for them to be regulated by internal regulations needs to be clarified, because if they are regular payments, it doesn't change anything. And there's a second rule of law that I'm also concerned about. This is the distribution of profits among the members of the cooperative. There has to be a very simple rule here: if profit is going to develop a cooperative, there's no warning of exemption from tax on that kind of income; but if profit is distributed among members of the cooperative, and this profit is exempt from tax, it's an offshore scheme, and I'm asking for it not to be allowed. If the agrarian committee supports these positions in the final conclusion as a second reading assignment, and in the first reading we're going to fix them, I'm asking my colleagues to support bill 6527-d.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u33	Thank you for your position. At this point, the National Deputy Maxim Burbak is invited to present the position of the People's Front. And then the National MP, Nichiporenko, after that. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will support this legislative initiative, because our village needs cooperation to develop it. I remember that in 2010, he was the head of the agro-industrial development commission of the Chernobyl District Council, and we had already held numerous meetings with farmers who were told that we should create service cooperatives. My 204 constituency, which is the main type of agricultural activity, is apple production, apple cultivation: Hottin district, Sokiryan district, Kielmenack district So I can tell you what happened: in 2017, the price of apples for processing was 7 dollars per kilogram, and in 2018 it was already 70 copies. What damage these were to peasants who were unable to obtain a fair price for their produce! So I personally asked the Antimonopoly Committee to immediately consider the issue of perhaps a cartel plot of processors with a deliberate underestimation of the price so that the peasants would not be able to get a decent price for the crop they had grown. If they were united into cooperatives, it would certainly not have happened that large agrarian producers and processors could dictate their prices. I would like to say separately that there are other problems in our village -- this is payment on a pie. Now people are massively breaking the lease agreements on pies to raise the price of pie. We need people to receive a fair price and a worthy price and to be able to live. And here one of the colleagues said that the reform of decentralization of power in the country was a failure. I think it's one of the brightest reforms supported by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk and our Supreme Council. Individual numbers, I like to use numbers. The Sokirian united territorial community, when it decided to unite into two villages, Sokirians and Kobolcin, had a budget of 7.5 million dollars. A month ago, I was on the report of Vasil Ravlik’s head, and he noted that the 2018 budget was 63 million dollars. Here are the numbers: 7.5 and 63! This is not the development of the community. Next question. The government of Groisman has decided to transfer land free of charge outside the population. So that's when we collected the heads of the country and the heads of the OTG and told them that the government would hand it over to you, no one would say. This was January 2018. In December 2018, we reported that the land was passed over to all OTGs in the Chernivecki region of 7,000 hectares. These are additional resources for rural community budgets. So I can tell you that decentralization reform is one of the brightest reforms. And once again, I want to say that the Supreme Council must support the rural producer in every way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u35	Thank you, Sir Maxime. Mr. Nichiporenko is invited to the floor. He's given the word "rebirth" by the group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u36	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, I am not going to talk about this law right now, because the previous speakers have already explained it very carefully. And they told us how much he was needed. I want to address you on behalf of the agrarians. Today, a meeting of the All - Ukrainian Agrarian Council is taking place in Kiev. So to be clear, it's over a half a thousand companies. They asked me to give you the following words: "Dear Members, we have a very big request for you now to forget about the election for at least 30 minutes, and to support this important bill that the agrarians need. This will allow us to move away from the dictates of grain traders, create normal prices inside Ukraine. We've been waiting a long time for this bill. We are grateful to the agrarian committee that supported it, and we have developed this project together. So we have great respect for all the national MPs, please support this bill." Dear colleagues, I've given you the word-in-a-word that the agrarians have asked me to do. I want to remind you that soon, not tomorrow, I think almost every one of us will go to our districts and look people in the eye and answer those questions that don't apply to politics, but they apply to everyday life. So, colleagues, please. And I have a request to Irina Volodymyr and Andrija Volodymyrovich. Before that, Irina Volodymyrically, please ask the agrarians before you put this question to a vote, because the agrarians understand that the vast majority of deputies are willing to support this bill, please let's put it to a vote, see if there are enough people in the room. Because in order for this to not work out, everyone is ready to support this bill, but there are not enough votes. So please do this organizationally. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u37	Thank you. Unfortunately, we don't have the function of putting the bill to a rating vote when it's being considered. But we'll call all the deputies back to the session room. Colleagues, we're done speaking from MPs and factions. We're considering this law in full procedure, I remind you. So right now, please sign up for the national MPs of Ukraine. Colleagues, depending on. Let's do this, depending on the number of deputies in the room we're going to give 9 for this minute or 15 to maximize. Dear Mr. Litwin, thank you very much, thank you very much as a great obeyer of the Rules of All Times and Nations for this tip. Don't yell at me. Dear Mr. Litwin requires 15 minutes. Please sign up. 15 minutes to the show. The rule ranges from 9 to 15 minutes. We're going to have 15 minutes at the request of a national MP, an expert in the Rules, who had always observed it before when he was the speaker of the Supreme Council, Mr. Litvin, it would be 15 minutes. And now, please, I'll give you my word on the line one minute under the Rules after all the speeches, Mr. Litwin. You will tell us how you complied with the Rules, including when voting on the language law and the Kharkiv Treaties. And please welcome to Mr. Yvchenk's address.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u38	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to join my colleague and once again urge everyone to vote for a very important bill. We've already talked about that this is actually the last stage of the transformation of the agricultural sector, so if the agrarian system is actually built on family farms. I've been giving you an example of 250,000 cooperatives where they work, where there are actually 161 million people united, are only in EU countries. They have employed 5.5 million people. In such countries as Finland, Sweden, and Japan, agriculture has nearly 100 percent of agricultural holdings. In France, Germany, about 80s, in the United States, 30 percent. And the turnover of such cooperative compounds is more than 120 billion. Colleagues, cooperatives will help people to unite, to farm, or to unify one - individual farmers, and they will be able to get the best price at this union. Because of these cooperative compounds, they can build their own elevators, they can build their own storage shelters, they can join together in cooperative alliances, and thus provide support, financial support to their members, their farms. Dear colleagues, what Pinzenic said he said was true. What we need to do is not turn agricultural cooperation into quasi-cooperations that will avoid taxes, because the basic taxes for participation -- actually the wages -- are the salaries for the income of individuals, it's the VAT, it's the EU. These are the basic taxes that are coming, the basic VAT taxes that are coming into local budgets, and the EU is forming the Pension Fund. And we need to avoid allowing ourselves to avoid tax evasion by agricultural cooperatives themselves. And what he said, I suggest that we with the corrections, that what Mr. Labazük said, and what Mr. Pinzenik said, should be supported. And as an agrarian committee MP, we're going to give our rights and we're going to work directly on entering a cooperative, getting out of a cooperative, collectively managing the assets of a cooperative, one vote, distribution of profits, and so on. Colleagues, let's just get together for once and we'll take real farm law. And finally, I'm going to say that the government of Julia Timoshenko in 2005 just launched a cooperative movement. A colossal amount of money was allocated, up to 7 billion. Sadly, the government of Azarov ignored these positions. But let us work with you and rebuild the agrarian policy that will benefit the Ukrainian village and rural development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to appeal to the Ukrainian national deputies, who will be voting in 14 minutes. Please return to the session room, we have some more speeches and lines. And, please, I'd like to make a statement to the People's Deputies of Barna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u40	Christ Voscres! Honourable MPs, the noble Ukrainian people, the cooperation bill is very appropriate and extremely necessary, especially when we consider an example: 80 years ago, when the initiative of Andrija Šepticki created a cooperative that could unite Ukrainian peasants against the Polish rule, and they could not only survive but be out of competition, to enter the markets of Europe and America. But in addition, we should note the risks that this bill might pose, particularly with regard to the secrecy and impurity of paying taxes, which Mr. Victor Pinzenik has actually pointed out justly. One second. Unforeseen conditions for restrictions on agricultural land and areas Third moment. The issue does not allow the bill to make it impossible to expand areas for agroholding. Because thus, by manipulating this law and others, you can make this bill not for the development of the Ukrainian village, but more for the priority of development and the so-called agroholdings, which will thus nullify the existence of the Ukrainian village. And so it's very important and it takes something to give the Ukrainian land to the peasants themselves, to give the Ukrainian land its owners, to the peasants, to make the Ukrainian land profit and wealth to the Ukrainian families who live in the countryside, not to the agroholdings. And in order to prevent the sale and disposal of Ukrainian land in one form or another, we need to finalize this bill, detailing the fact that cooperation should unite individuals -- farmers who are residents of villages -- and for whom this bill will be directed. So that their work together would provide for ordinary Ukrainian peasants and raise Ukrainian communities. In addition, the issue of non-admission in the further creation of the land market, especially in these conditions of poverty in the Ukrainian village, where anyone can sell or want to sell Ukrainian land, regardless of citizenship or capital. But in addition, it should be noted that any Ukrainian farmer, even a self-sufficient one, even in Ternopolish, will not be competitive against Chinese or Arabic or any other capital. So we have to do everything we can to make the land of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u41	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u42	Provided wealth to Ukrainian families, created jobs for Ukrainian families. And do everything to make it impossible to grow and increase land in agroholdings. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u43	Thank you. Please welcome national MP Sporish, who is given the right to speak by his colleague Juric. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u44	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, it's almost the second day we're discussing these three laws on agricultural cooperation. And it's probably a good thing that we're now, at this point, we're still discussing, because today, in order for the question to be put to the vote now, we see that there's quite a small number of national MPs in the room. And I'd really like us to just vote it out, because this is really the future of our farmers. Today we speak for a cooperative as a union of, indeed, simple farmers. We're talking about today that they can still work at the same level as the big agroholdings, the same VAT return to them was the same thing, but we see that the big agroholdings get everything, but the simple farmers don't have it. Of course, first and foremost, this legislative arrangement was needed. We see three bills, I think they really have to unite, and we all have to do it together. We should vote in favour of committee bill 6527-d. Why? In all the bills it's almost the same, but again, as it was said, it's the order of acquisition, the termination of membership, the distribution of property, the income. That's all we've heard in committee bill 6527. So I think that the creation of agricultural cooperatives is really a European level of development. What we've been saying in Europe for decades is that we're going to do this and we really have to go, confidently, so that the agricultural cooperatives will work for us so that we don't have 1 percent statistics, but like in Europe, 60, 70, 80 percent. I think first of all in this we're going to see new jobs, we're going to see wages, and God willing that we can do this together with you and this bill we're going to adopt today in our second reading. So we've heard the main thing is that it's the right to go out and pay our contributions back. If a person wants to get out of an agricultural cooperative without a court order, because all of this is prescribed in the bill. And once again, Victor Pinzenic's comments are very correct, and I share them, and I share them. And of course, when we vote, we have to pay attention to them. Thank you. And I urge the entire room to vote for the committee bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u45	Thank you. So, colleagues, in six minutes, the vote will take place. In six minutes, there will be a vote, and I ask all the heads of factions to invite the national deputies to the hall. In six or seven minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to maximize their mobility so that we can make a positive decision. Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the presentation of Bandurov Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Bandurov gives the floor to Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very topical issue, and there is obviously no reason to prove why it is relevant. But there's one problem: we're talking about, obviously, people don't belong anymore, I mean the earth. The theory was very correct that they were restoring the right to rule over the land of the united territorial communities. But note that this right was passed on when the land was taken away, which was free, and rented for 49 years to many businesses, many entrepreneurs, to say the least, to areas that had no bearing on the territory. I'll give you a simple example. In the Žitomir district of Novograd Wallinsk. The head of the district government secretly handed over thousands of hectares of land belonging to the teams to the communities for 49 years in a lease of less than 3 percent. By the way, this head of the district government was part of the right party, BP. Now it's probably going to be called European, like there, initiative or perspective, or European Solidarity. And he didn't take any responsibility. When he was mistrusted, the president managed to release him at his own request. So what do we have to do first, dear colleagues? Inventory the land and find out how much land it belongs to and return everything that has been illegally stolen from people. Because working on this earth, leading these cooperatives, organizing these cooperatives are mostly people who know this land, who know territory, who know people who know their problems. What's wrong with us? The ambushes, which have been successful in raiding the land, are in turn recorded in the right political parties. They have an appropriate political cover. Right now, everyone is running to the new political party, including the raiders, who people know very well. They want a political flag. And we obviously have to ask the question in a way that we don't approach the village as an economic category, but we understand that it's the essence, the meaning of the life of Ukraine. At the same time, to solve problems that have to do with people on earth. That's why it's an offer. Let's mobilize, dear colleagues, as we are often called upon to do. We're going to adopt one of the laws, obviously worked out in the first reading, and then we're going to do everything we can to figure out how much land there is, who it belongs to, what the value of this land is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u47	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'd like everyone to come into the hall. Heads of factions, please mobilize as much as possible a special warehouse to make a decision. And now from the national deputies, the closing statement is Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich. Then the final committee, and we vote. Now there's Melniczuk. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u48	Good afternoon, Ukrainian citizens, distinguished colleagues, chairman. The laws that are now presented in this block, yes, really needed to be adopted much earlier, and rural cooperation is a very important issue for a country, an agrarian country that is now Ukraine. And the land that God has given us needs to be properly cultivated, properly used for the benefit of the nation, so that the Ukrainians can be the owner to grow, not only feed themselves, but also their neighbors, as is the possibility. What we're seeing right now. Indeed, the earth is unaccounted for, and the earth is unappreciated. With the change of power, the raiders are reselling businesses under the roof of the IMF, the D.A., the D.A.'s office. And the same individuals are just taking part in this redistribution. A Ukrainian village suffers. It's essential that we look at these issues, protect the Ukrainian peasant, the Ukrainian co-operator. Because in fact, the schemes that are currently on the market: Latifundists steal profits, grain traders steal profits, they don't add billions of dollars to the budget, just dollars, because we export a lot of agricultural products. And there's another thing that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u49	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u50	And that we also have to consider in this law, and it must be united, the law, so that the right distribution may be. Because not only do we have to grow grains, but we have to develop birds and animals to be proportionate. Then agriculture will develop properly. So forward, this law is needed by peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u51	So, colleagues, we can move on to making decisions. Now with the final word from the committee. Time's up. The closing word from the committee is Peter Jurchisin. And, colleagues, he's going to give us suggestions from the committee, after which we're going to the vote. Colleagues, I see a lot of empty places. Look who's gone, invite your colleagues into the hall. Heads of factions, invite all deputies to the hall. Please, Mr. Peter, three minutes. And we vote in three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u52	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, you and I are considering a vital bill on agricultural cooperation. Therefore, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, in its decision, recommends that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis. The adoption of this bill will contribute to the creation of agricultural cooperatives, increase their market shares in the production and implementation of agricultural products. Colleagues, I will now read under the transcript the amendments that Sergey Labazük, who co-authored the bill, the national deputy of Ukraine, delivered on May 30, 2019. Second sentence, part three, article 28. The 26th bill reads: "The size of such cooperative payments is determined by the results of the financial year in proportion to the participation of a member of the cooperative in the order determined by the decision of the higher authority of the cooperative." That is to say, it's actually to recreate the approach that's fixed by valid legislation. The other one. To supplement article 27 of the bill with a new part of this content: "In an agricultural cooperative that operates without a purpose of profit, no payments on pie are made." So we're going to take down the ability of the binomials in this part. Dear national MPs, how can you not love the village because the village is the cradle of our state? The village died, the nation died. So we need to encourage the village, the peasants to create jobs, the cooperatives that will allow us to unite and take any form of resistance to large businesses, and create jobs where there will be proportionally divided parts, where today we will create large farms, where we will be able to get a great milk-quality hope. That's why I urge you to support the village. Dear colleagues, please consider the position, the opinion of the People's MP Pinzenik, who, in his speech as a smart, literate economist, told you that the village needed economic growth. My friends, I ask you to resolve this matter and vote and support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u53	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I want to emphasize, I'm going to put to the vote with those papers that the representative of the committee gave to the transcript, and he took into account both Labazuk and Pinzenika. They were wired under the transcript, and actually with that wording I'm going to put to the vote the first bill, the committee bill. Please prepare for the vote. In the discussion, we saw that all factions supported this bill. Now it's just important to be in the workplace and vote. So I'm voting on the draft Law on Agricultural Cooperation, number 6527, with the rights that Peter Jurchisin has written under the transcript. I'd like to vote, and I'd like to support you on a basis. We support colleagues, each voice has a weight. Please vote, please support. Vote. We're backing it up. [[11:18:24]] For 211 We didn't make it. Colleagues, pay attention! Don't leave the hall. I see. Please inform the Secretary of the Supreme Council that all the deputies from the watchtowers will enter the hall. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. By factions, please show me. Look who's not around. Peter Poshenko's Block – 58, People's Front – 46, Opposition Block – 16, Self-Help – 10, Radical Party – 17, Father's Party – 12, Will of the People – 10, Rebirth Party – 12, non-fractional – 30. A few people came up, and, colleagues, I'll put them on the way back. Please take your seats during the vote so that everyone is in the workplace. So please prepare and ask everyone to participate in the vote. I'll put the first one on the way back, and then I'll put it back on the ground. You're ready, aren't you? Please prepare yourselves, and I'll make the first suggestion: to go back to the draft of Law 6527-d. Please vote for the return. Let's vote, colleagues. Each voice has a weight. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. We're voting for the return. In return for the committee's proposal, colleagues. [[11:20:08]] For 213 13. I'll do it again, colleagues. The MPs are coming in. Please come into the hall. I'm calling it in, that's right. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I ask during the vote to be in the workplace. We're just missing a few votes. I'm talking to both the authors and the right-wing authors: please come in, sit down, look who's gone. Anyone who has not voted, take part in the vote. You're ready, aren't you? So, colleagues, I'm putting a motion to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll wait for the card. The first is on the way back. Please take part in the vote during the vote. So you're ready, right? So the return to draft law 6527. In return, we vote carefully, each vote matters. On return, please vote. Please support, colleagues, we vote for the return. Vote, support! [[11:21:44]] For 226 We're back! But not all vote. Your faction is voting. Colleagues, take up jobs. So I'm voting on the draft Agricultural Cooperation Act (6527-d) as amended by Peter Jurczyn's transcript, based on technical law. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Every voice, we vote very carefully, we support, colleagues. Let's vote! Please vote. [[11:22:39]] For 233 Decision taken. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention, colleagues, attention! Listen to me. The following laws are very short and unifying. Let's go through them fast, stay in the hall. Then. They are truly unifying. Don't come out, colleagues, don't leave the hall. Next. Draft Act amending article 133-1 of the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the increase of liability for unjustified refusal to pay for the transfer of individual categories of citizens. First vote. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Don't leave the hall, colleagues. We're voting for a reduced procedure. [[11:23:36]] For 139 What's the matter, colleagues? Who doesn't support it? I ask you, colleagues, to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. It is a simple, unifying law. I'm asking everyone to support the cut. Vote! It's a technical bill. Please vote for the short cut. There's a change of sentence, colleagues! Can you hold it? [[11:24:09]] For 139 My colleagues, I'll be back again. The bill changes one sentence. We can go into the hourly consideration, and then we just don't vote it out. I'm asking you to support everyone. Let's see the factions. Let's see the factions! I'm asking you to back everyone up. That's the right thing to do, colleagues. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and support for the cut. We're voting for a cut. Why is that? Well. [[11:24:55]] For a hundred and Guys, I'm gonna put it back together. I'm reminding you, today we're considering the law on temporary commission investigators, we need to move quickly through the agenda. I'm asking you to support me. We're taking time for nothing. There's one sentence in the law, a change of sentence. I don't understand your logic, I don't understand those who demanded the TSC law for months, and now we're delaying its consideration. Back up, fellows! That's right, that's fair. I'm asking you to mobilize and support the consideration of draft Law 10004 by a reduced procedure. Hold on, vote! Vote! Please be supportive. We're voting carefully. [[11:25:51]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And we're moving on to the draft Law 10004. I invite you to report to Trelyaków Aleksandra Yuriovich. And to prepare for the co - account of Cosmiakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please, Treyakov. A report from the committee will be made by Maxim Burbak. Yes, the committee, the committee's chairman confirms. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u54	Honourable MPs, the laws on the status of war veterans, guarantees their social protection, and on the basis of social protection for persons with disabilities in Ukraine, persons with disabilities as a result of war, participants in hostilities, including participants in the ATO, persons with disabilities I, II groups and children with disabilities, are entitled to benefit. Ukraine's Code of Administrative Offences provides for the responsibility of drivers of transport equipment and of citizens of entrepreneurial activities for the baseless refusal of such persons to pay. So far, the administrative fine is 8 untaxed minimum citizens’ income, or 136 dollars. Such a small fine allows motorists to refuse the appropriate categories of persons in the extended transport. Thus, members of the Committee on the Rights of Veterans and Persons with Disabilities took the initiative to increase the amount of such a fine to 150 untaxed minimum citizens’ income. So today it's 2,000, 550 dollars. Please support the bill and accept it as a basis. I'll tell you what. Now they're fined 136 dollars, and they're allowing us to unreasonably deny our assets in the extended passage. We think we need to increase this fine to 2,000 550 and transport our defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u55	Thank you. Cozemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, your view is suggested to consider the draft Law amending article 133-1 of the Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility for Unjustified Refusal to Contraband Certain Categories of Citizens (No.10004). The project aims at minimizing cases of unjustified refusal of drivers from the statutory payment of citizens by amending part seven of article 133-1 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. It is proposed to increase the sanctions for baseless refusal to pay on the part of citizens on the part of drivers of motor vehicles, citizens of entrepreneurial activities, to 150 minimum citizens' incomes, i.e. 2,000 550 dollars. So far, the fine today is, in fact, 136 bracelets. At its meeting on February 27, this year, the Committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the results of the first reading of the draft bill. And if there are no objections, the committee recommends that it be accepted as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u57	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. John Krulko is invited to the floor from Fatherland. Surrendering Sergio Eutuska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u58	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, just as the drafters of the bill and the chairman of the committee, Andri Kožemiakin, have made it clear that this law is not too complicated and large, and it only applies to the fact that both drivers and owners of the motor vehicle that transports the residents of the pension categories, often abuse occurs when the driver, simply and simply, does not take into account the Ukrainian law, which determines that the pension categories, those persons of the pension categories, must be moved free of charge, so sanctions are imposed. If today we are talking about the 136th anniversary of the sanction provided for in the law in force, of course there will be many such violations. And unfortunately, in our receptions, we often get a call from a person who's a janitor who doesn't comply with the rules of this law, which allows us to either land them from a general transport vehicle or not take them on a bus at all. So this authorization of about 2 thousand 550 dollars introduced by this law will, in my opinion, encourage and make sure that drivers do not abuse this law, which clearly allows citizens of the tax categories to move around by general road transport. Therefore, the "Fatherland" faction insists that the bill be adopted not only on a basis but generally, as all members of the Legal Security Committee insist. The Fatherland faction votes in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u59	Colleagues, I call for more concise interventions so that we can save the mobilization in the hall. And now I invite you from Self-Help to Vojcitsky Victoria Mikhailna. He's handing over Roman Semensi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u60	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, of course, the purpose of the bill is noble to rule out cases where the driver of a transport vehicle is unjustifiably refusing to pay for the transfer of citizens in need of such social protection. There is no doubt in anyone that the listed categories of citizens really need such social protection. But let's say, we call things our names, that today it actually turns into the humiliation of people from drivers who really need such social protection. But I'm paying attention to you, my fellow Members, because this bill is being submitted to us today as a technical -- one sentence. But I insist that one increase in fines, such an apricot practice, will not solve this problem in any way. And this bill, in terms of solving the problem itself, has nothing to do with solving the problem. In particular, the question arises, why don't the drafters propose to amend article 60 of the Ukrainian Automotive Transport Act in part of the increase in administrative and economic fines for shipping companies? But that's not the point. The problem is widespread. In 2018-2019, the carriers of many Ukrainian cities, such as Poltava, Zitomira, refused to transport the boozers free of charge because of the lack of compensation to be paid from the local budget, or the lack of a contract and order developed and approved by the local government. So if we're going to solve this problem, we have to create a legislative framework that will ensure that the authorities of local self-government exercise their powers. The other one. Dear colleagues, without solving the complex issue of the calculation of the pension categories of citizens who today deserve all their life to be protected in the state, nothing will happen. This Supreme Council has passed a fairly important bill of 4121 on a single electronic ticket, but still in most of Ukraine this procedure has not worked, that today does not allow local government authorities to properly account for and adequately ensure that the benefits are transported to those categories of citizens they need. That's why the bill might be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u61	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u62	Therefore, the bill, which is in the first reading, is unacceptable because it will never solve the problem of the transport of the citizens' income categories, must be thoroughly worked out. And only in a sophisticated way, when the Supreme Council creates all the tools for its execution can it be approved as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u63	But on the basis of that, do you support it? Thank you. So Sugonyako gives Caplin the word for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u64	Dear fellow countrymen, I would like to make a few briefs and remarks on this matter. First. This bill will not solve the problem. It's essentially technical and it needs a more complex document to enable us, together with the government, the local councils to fully publicize transport, so that all transportation in places is communal, and that the driver bears direct administrative responsibility to the owners of the vehicle, the community, in the person of the management of the utilities. This is the only way, trust my experience, to solve problems with respect for pensioners, veterans, other types of population that have the right. The other one. There is a serious problem: For years, the government budget has not compensated for the appropriate payment to local budgets. From the local budgets, the final juices are being drained to support local and municipal carriers and private enterprises in some way to ensure that transport is possible. Third. We decide in Poltava, where the cheapest trip is, despite a slight rise in recent times, but the cheapest trip in Ukraine, as follows. When I arrive in Poltava, I use exclusively public transportation — routes and trolleybuses. People know my mobile phone (0675407096), they send information about the violation, and we immediately, by automatic means, write MPs, they're just hundreds of them, and through checking organs, we're trying to punish every driver, every transporter owner, every company that violates the right of people to payment. That's the only way you can do it in manual mode today, while there's no comprehensive law, to get order in this area. But the only way out is through publicization and full control of the local community in terms of quality and order of transport.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u65	Thank you. And the closing statement is from the People's Front, Amazanov Andri Vitaliovich. And two or three minutes to vote. I'm asking all the MPs to come to the hall. In two or three minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please, Andrew Amazanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u66	Andrew Amazanov. Please give the floor to my colleague Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u67	Thank you, Andrew. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. I want to say that many times during a meeting with the guys, with the bombers, it was just a matter of groundless refusal to pay. We have in the social networks of the group where we communicate right from this case, the guys are fixing, making videos, taking pictures of the driver. And if an even older person who has the right to such benefits is treated with respect and not every time he says something, there's a young boy who's been shot down, no matter what he's been through, he's wounded, or he's in military form, he's refused. So on such an initiative, it is clear that the People's Front will support this bill. And I think in the future, really, maybe there'll be laws that will solve this issue in a complex way. Now, if they don't realize that boys are giving up their lives, they're defending the state, including for them to be able to engage in entrepreneurial activities, transportation, so we're going to cut them with a bracelet, so we're going to increase our fines. People's Front votes in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u68	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to go back to work. I'm asking from the government beds, at the entrances where the discussions are being held, to return to the workplace so that we don't go back to the vote a few times, colleagues. Please, on the ground. I'll just put the committee's proposal on the ground. Please, we're taking up jobs. Don't leave the hall. Voting time, now. And then we count each voice. So, colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending article 133-1 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility for Unjustified Refusal in the Indemnity of Certain Categories of Citizens (10004) -- on the basis of. Colleagues, please support everyone. Please vote. We support people who need the State of Custody. Vote. We're backing it up. On the basis of 10004. Every voice. We're voting carefully. We're backing it up. [[11:40:03]] For 197 I see a number of people holding back. Why are you holding back, colleagues? Some say it's not a good condition. Please take up jobs. Don't leave the hall. I'll call the names that come out of the hall. If these measures are not sufficient, we will be able to take additional steps before the second reading. I ask all those who have abstained to support me. So, colleagues, I'm putting my first offer back. And I'm going to show you the factions. The factions. "Peter Poshenko's Block" – 55, "The People's Front" – 45, "The Opposition Block" – 15, "The Self-Help" – 11, "The Radical Party – 17, "The Father's Party" – 13, "The Will of the People" – 3, "The Rebirth Party" – 12 and non-fractional – 26. Colleagues, let's mobilize. Just for the basis. Whoever held back, let's support it, and we can work on the second reading. Ready? Yeah? So my first proposal is to go back to the draft law. Everyone please take part in the vote. It's the protection of arsonists. And I would like to support the return to the consideration of draft law, 10004. Please vote and please support. We'll protect the firefighters and support the firefighters. These are usually people who need the care of the state and that's why every voice is important right now. Please vote. Please be supportive. We're voting for the return. [[11:42:05]] For 210 Again, a few were held back. Colleagues, I don't know what words to find. Please take your seats, not everyone has been able to vote. It's very simple. Plums in public transport are often treated with a driver’s homage. It is suggested that they be supported. These measures may not be sufficient, but whatever measures are taken to protect those who often cannot resist the chamomile driver on their own. Let's not hold back. Let's all support it, just on the ground. And we can work on the second reading. Colleagues, please take up jobs. I'm asking everyone not only to vote but also to support it, it's just a basis. We'll be able to work on it. This law will not harm, and this law will not make the condition of payment worse, but only better. If we need further action, let's take additional legislative initiatives, but this one we have to support. Please, colleagues. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 10004 on increasing responsibility for baseless refusal to benefit from individual categories of citizens. Please vote and please support. Everyone please take part in the vote. Vote! We'll hold it! Vote! [[11:43:46]] For 214 Colleagues, me. Don't leave the hall, please don't leave the hall. I'll call it by the names that come out of the hall. Please look who's here, and I'll show you the factions, look at the towers. So, Peter Poshenko Block 60, People's Front 49, Opposition Block 19, Self-help 12, Radical Party 18, Fatherhood 13, People's Will 3, Rebirth Party 13, non-fractional, 27. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. Have you gone out to call those who are in the towers? Colleagues, Rebirth, support the sluggers! Vitaly, hold on, this is an important social law, please. The whole group was led. So you've been calling from everyone's watchtowers, Mr. Arthur? Arthur, the callers are back, aren't they? So I'm going to put it back again. I'm asking you to go back to work. So now I'm going to put it back, and then I'm going to put it on the base. We can work on the second reading. The first is the vote for the return. Please, everyone in the workplace, we lacked literally a few votes, so each vote is important for the support of the arsonists. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 10004. Please vote, please support for your return, colleagues. We vote carefully, each voice, we vote carefully. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Colleagues, carefully take part in the vote. [[11:46:15.]] For 216 One more time, one more time. But why bet a few times? And how can you be outside your workplace during the session? I don't understand or accept it. And a lot of people want to go to the next Council. Why hang out if you don't go to work if you're teasing people?Oh, my God! I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. So I'm going to put the first vote back, and then I'm going to put it back. Please all return to your posts. I'm putting the first vote to go back to the draft Law on Strengthening Responsibility for Unwarranted Refusal in the Indemnity Transfer of Individual Categories of Citizens (10004). Please vote and please support the return. Please vote, please support. Please support everyone, everyone and everyone, we vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:47:42]] For 219 What are you holding on to, explain to me? Well, you two got held up. One. Well, why? So, colleagues, seven votes to support veterans and disabled people. Seven votes to support veterans and disabled people. It's on the air you're talking about protecting the socially vulnerable, and now we can support them with our own action. Seven votes. I'm asking everyone who's held back now. And I'm asking you to take up your jobs. Please take your jobs, I'll put you back. Don't leave the hall. Don't leave the hall, I said! So I'm asking you to come back. Thank you for coming back to work. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the consideration of draft law 10004. And I would like everyone to be in the workplace and support the return to draft law 10004. Please vote, please support! Vote, support! Every voice! We vote, we support return. [[11:49:29]] For 221 Yuri Suhevich didn't make it. Yuri Suhevich came into the hall and couldn't make it. I ask that you allow Mr. Yuri to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Both the Ministry and the public organizations of veterans and disabled people are addressing us. Colleagues! Mr. Yuri, you can vote, right? Please take up jobs. So, my colleagues, they've taken up jobs? Five votes were missing. Please take up jobs. They're getting ready, aren't they? Aunty, now every voice will have weight. Do you have a card with you? All right. Auntie, do you have a card with you? So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law on Strengthening Responsibility for Unwarranted Refusal in the Indemnity Transfer of Individual Categories of Citizens (10004). Every voice has weight, and I ask everyone to vote and vote for the return. We support the disabled, we support the veterans! Voting, supporting. We're voting for our return. Please be supportive. Vote. Colleagues, pay attention! We're voting carefully. Every voice! I'm asking you to support, "The will of the people." [[11:51:26]] For 229 We're back. And be careful, please. These are important social laws. And I'm voting on draft law, 10004 as a basis. Based on the base. Please vote and please support base 10004. Let's vote, colleagues. We support it on the basis. Careful! Every voice. [[11:51:59]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] Vitaly, don't leave! Hometic, come back, please. You guys back up! What are you doing? Vitaly, 30 seconds. For 30 seconds, please! So the first vote is to go back to draft Law 10004. Please vote. Vote. Auntie, we're voting! Please vote for the return, and then for the basis. Please support the return. [[11:52:42]] For 230 We're back. Now the draft of Law 10004 is based on. Please vote, please support me as a base. Based on the base. Please support me as a base. Please support the base! Please vote and support. Every voice! We vote, we support veterans not only in the election but also in our vote. We're backing it up. [[11:53:14]] For 231 Decision taken. Colleagues, please tell me. Attention! We have enough in the hall. The next one is safety belts. Could we take it quickly? I'm betting on the ratings vote for the next draft law. Draft Act amending article 121 (to increase liability for breaches of safety belts). The rating vote. Please vote, this is a rating vote. Vote! Safety belts, ratings. [[11:53:55]] For-189 Colleagues, I'll put the next one in. The rating vote. As we agreed on the Conciliation, I'm going to put a draft bill on the amendment to the Ukrainian Act on Service in Local Self-Government. Now there's a high level of mobilization. We agreed on the Conciliation Council that I would put them to a rating vote, drafts of the Local Self-Government Act. So the first rating vote is 8369: "About service in local self-government." The rating vote. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[11:54:47]] For 169 And the next one. Rating Voting: Draft Law on the Principles of the Administrative and Territorial System of Ukraine (8051). The rating vote, it's just a rating vote. Please vote, please support. It's a rating vote. [[11:55:18]] For-149 The decision is not made. The chairman of the committee reiterates his proposal to support the use of seatbelts and motorcycles, a colleague. It's a short law. Let's support him, colleagues. Come on! If the rating vote shows support, we'll take it briefly in five minutes. It is a very short Law on seatbelts and motorcycles. It's the safety of our citizens. Let's try it, colleagues. I'll put it on the ratings again. I'm asking you to mobilize. I'm asking you to take up jobs. Don't leave the hall. It's five minutes that will keep our citizens safe on the road. So I'm voting on the draft Law amending article 121 of the Code of Administrative Offences (to increase responsibility for breaches of safety belts or motorcycles). Please vote, support. The rating vote. Careful, responsible. Vote. The rating vote. Vote. [[11:56:58]] For 181 No, it's not. So, colleagues, now a statement from two factions has come to the fore. They're willing to replace it with a tribune. It's from the Self-Help faction and the Fatherland faction. And he'll do it. They're ready to take a break. And I give the floor to Oleni Sotnik. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u69	Thank you for the opportunity. Fellows, I'm addressing you again, and now you're all starting your electoral campaigns, you're driving and you're promising people justice, justice. You're talking about bad police work, bad prosecutor's office. Once again, I very much ask you, you now have these powers, we have to call here for a report: the First Minister of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Head of the National Police, the Attorney General, the Head of the D.B.I. They have to report not only on the status of the boy’s murder. There is clear evidence that the law enforcement officers themselves could cover the crime. Understand, if they are not punished, we will never change this system in our lives, there will be no reform. The head of Parliament now has the opportunity at 16:00 of all these gentlemen to call here, let them report. Because the Prince is going to a press conference, he's saying he's going to resign the head of the Kiev District Police, and he's saying in parallel that he's just filing a report for removal. It's a society lie. Today, people will come under the walls of the National Police in all the cities of Ukraine. I demand that you, the national MPs, help your electorate and call here all the representatives of the force. Let them answer!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u70	And I invite you to take the floor to announce First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to inform you that, on Friday, during the announcement of requests by Ukrainian national deputies, I, as chairman of the session, made the following mistake. There were two requests from Ukrainian national deputies: Romana Zvarič, and then from a group of national deputies (Birdsnik, Kiskara, and others) to the President of Ukraine. These requests did not receive the required number of votes. I made a written request to send them to the President's Administration, the head of the President's Administration. Obviously that's not the norm of the Rules, so I call on the Ukrainian National Deputies to re-register your requests to the President of Ukraine, and then we have to put them to an appropriate vote, or we're going to register to the President's Administration at once, to the head of the President's Administration, but do it on our own. Because the chairman doesn't have that kind of authority if it doesn't come from the authors. This is the first announcement, under the transcript. And the second. Colleagues called for the presidency of the Lubinets People's Deputy, who reported that on March 1, 18th, he voted in favour of the draft Law on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court. Later he learned that his voice had not been counted, and therefore he asked to be announced under the transcript that he had voted in favour of Bill 7440 on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. And he's asking to announce it at the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u72	Thank you. Twelve years. I'll call it a 30-minute break. And at 12:30, everyone please come into the hall to continue our work. At 12:30, everyone please be in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u73	So, colleagues, please come into the hall. I want to report that we are about to go to the draft law on the approval of Ukraine's Universal Purpose Science and Technology Programme. Reporters are requested to prepare for the consideration of draft Law 9457. But now I have to read a statement from two factions who have come to the fore from the People's Front faction and the Radical Party. They're ready to take a break. And I'd like to invite the head of the Radical Party of Oleg Lacha. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u74	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! I have some good news. The United States of America can grant Ukraine the status of a major military and political ally until our country joins NATO. I am absolutely convinced that this will have an extraordinary impact on the cessation of Russian aggression against Ukraine. How many times have our opponents told us that this is unrealistic and impossible? In March 2017, at the initiative of our team, the Supreme Council adopted a historic U.S. Congress Address on Security Guarantees, the main idea of which was to give Ukraine the status of main non-NATO ally and to establish a bilateral defence agreement. This is the kind of action that the United States will be practical in implementing the security assurances provided by the Budapest Memorandum of Understanding given by the nuclear powers in exchange for our unprecedented contribution to world nuclear disarmament. However, President Prashenko and Minister Klimkin failed to do so by focusing on the Minsk Treaties and fruitless negotiations in the barren norm. It is good that our initiative was supported by friends of Ukraine at the American Congress. And now the House of Representatives has a bill of support for Ukraine to protect its independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, which provides for Ukraine to be granted the status of the main ally of the United States outside NATO for the period of our state's accession to the North Atlantic Alliance. This status is an effective tool for the United States' bilateral strategic partnership with its allies in the world. It has been given to both states in a state of peace, such as Australia, New Zealand, and Japan, as well as to countries under threat of war, such as South Korea or Israel. And this year, Brazil became the main ally of the United States. Among the practical advantages is the substantial simplification of the transfer of modern weapons to Ukraine, including anti-tank, anti-ship and anti-aircraft systems, and the strengthening of the defence of our state. We thank our friends, the Democrats and the Republicans for their support and joint initiative in Congress. We look forward to an immediate review of the bill and to a positive decision by congressmen. Now it's important that President Zelensky doesn't waste this historic opportunity, because after Congress's decision, the status is granted by the President of the United States. On the terraces.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u75	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u76	On the scales of Ukraine's fate and the future of every Ukrainian. We're not gonna waste this chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u77	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Break is over. Everyone please take up their jobs. I would like to remind you that a key bill for today is the bill on temporary commissions and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus has prepared all the tables, and the tables have been distributed to all the national deputies. But we have a number of laws before the beginning of the TSC Act, and the authors ask not to fail them, to put them to a rating vote. And that's why, colleagues, I'm going to put it to a rating vote. If there are no votes, we'll move on to the TSC. In order not to lose the bills and the authors and the committees have asked me not to come in if we see the difficulty of voting. So I'm going to ask everyone to come into the hall, and now I'm going to announce the ratings vote. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. So the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to put the next draft of the Law amending the Road Traffic Act of Ukraine on the organisation of road traffic for people moving in wheelchairs (7486). Please participate in the rating vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:41:53]] For 112 I next place a draft Act amending article 242 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (6070) on the rating vote. Please vote, rating vote. [[12:42:21]] For 105 Next. Draft Act approving Ukraine's National Science and Technology Programme (9457). I'm betting on a rating vote. Please vote, please support. The rating vote. [[12:42:52]] For-83 The decision is not made. And the next chapter in us is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, I'm going to read every law, they've all been given to you in the agenda. I'm the first to put the draft Law (10227) on the electricity market into the agenda of the day. Anyone who supports the inclusion of it in the agenda of the day session, please vote. Please be supportive. Include in the agenda of the day session. [[12:43:30.]] For-84 Next. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of individual issues in the area of housing and utility services (10228). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. [[12:44:02]] Z-85 Next. Draft Act amending article 87 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on the financing of individual programs and health facilities (10231). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[12:44:33]] For 106 The decision is not made. Next. Draft Law 10318, the committee decided to replace it with an identical bill, but called 10357. So I'm putting the day session 10357 into order. Please vote. It's an identical bill, just specified. Please vote "green" tariff. Include in the agenda of the day session. [[12:45:17]] For-90 The decision is not made. Next. Draft Law on the Special Procedure for the Elimination of the President of Ukraine (Nos. 10340 and 10340-1). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[12:45:46]] For the 110. The decision is not made. Next. Draft Act amending article 9-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Alternative Sources of Energy (10343). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[12:46:14]] For-92 The decision is not made. I would like to point out that all these bills were in order of the day. And the final one is 10356: a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies to ensure the electoral rights of members of the military. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[12:46:54]] For 109 The decision is not made. So, colleagues, we can go to the draft Law on Temporary Commissions and Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to point out that this bill has 748 rights, of which 437 are rejected. I'm sure that's the expected moment. I worked as a professional and quality committee. Working groups worked. The machine printed the tables. The committee appointed Cooperinz Oleg Vasilovich as rapporteur. And so I'm announcing a move to draft Law 1098. And I invite you to report to the Vice-President of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kupryenka Oleg Vasilovich. In a good way. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u78	Thank you, fellows of honor! Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! At its meeting on May 30, 2019, the Supreme Council of Ukraine commissioned the committee to consider the proposed legislative initiative and amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions and the temporary special investigators of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration No. 1098). Notice 1098, not 198. It was introduced a long time before we started saying that the impeachment procedure should be taken immediately, up until the 15th year. The draft for preparation for the second reading, in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules, was amended by 1,633 amendments and proposals, most of them from the members of the MP's "Block of Peter Prashenko". The Committee notes that most of the proposals and amendments to the bill did not agree on each other, repeated themselves, and at times contradicted each other. And after the committee began to consider those amendments and called attention to them, most of the amendments were withdrawn by the people's deputies, as there were inadequacies, such as the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Civil Code of Ukraine and other laws of Ukraine, which are listed in the Committee's conclusions. During the consideration of the proposals and amendments on May 30, Ukrainian national deputies Alexeyev, Buglak, Janicki, Sugunjako called back most of the amendments they made. The committee notes that the amendments discussed and voted at the committee on May 29th were included in the comparative table if they were included in the text of the bill. As a result of the review of 748 proposals and amendments, the Committee considered 311, including partially, and editorially, negative 437. The committee notes that, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation of 25 April 19, the bill was supplemented by a new chapter IV, which is the same chapter on impeachment, namely on special temporary commissions on impeachment. Thus, the Final Positions of the Bill propose amendments to the articles, according to the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the National Police Act. A comparative table of the bill is given to you. In accordance with article 123, part 1, paragraph 3, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that Ukraine accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u79	Give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u80	30 seconds is enough. The Committee, in accordance with part one, paragraph 3, of article 123 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of a second reading of the draft Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, temporary special investigators of the Supreme Council (registration number 1098), to adopt it in a second reading and in general. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u81	So, colleagues, a large-scale bill, and we're going to work on a common system: I'm going to read those changes that are rejected. I'll give it to you later. I'm going to read those changes that are rejected. If one of the authors wants to put on confirmation, by raising his hand. Another 30 seconds, please, Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, the regulatory committee has prepared, well, a slightly changed procedure from the order that you and I are accustomed to discussing the bill for second reading, namely: by means of technical means (ready, right?) The text, the text of the bill, which was voted on in the first reading and the text of the bill recommended by the committee after consideration or rejection of the amendments, will be printed on the screens. And you will see clearly what the text of an article is for us to vote on at the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u83	No, I'm sorry, I have to read every paper. I don't have another option. I don't have any other option, we can call the articles, but we also have to call the revisions, because every edit author has a right. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I'm starting to read out those changes that were rejected. Fourth, Nedda. Don't insist. 6th. Don't insist. 8th, Olena Sotnik. Don't insist. 9th, Captain. Don't insist. 15th, Olena Sotnik. Don't insist. 14th, Capplin. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, the rules and methodology of parliamentary legislation provide that the title of the legislative act should clearly reflect the legal architecture of such a legislative act. So I suggested that the entire category base be put in the title of "Temporary Investigation Commissions", "Special Investigation Commissions" and so on. And I ask the Committee, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, Oleg Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u86	The committee rejected the amendment, left it as it was. In fact, there are not many changes in the title of the bill when amendments are made, according to the Rules. So the committee left it as it was. And nothing goes wrong: neither the methodology nor the structure, everything is clear and clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u87	Thank you. I'll bet on the vote on number 14. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:55:15.]] For-27 The decision is not taken. 16th, Jancitsky. Don't insist. Janicki, I'm sorry, it's not well written. Janicsky doesn't insist. 19th, Buglak. Don't insist. 21st, Buglak. Don't insist. Please turn on the microphone. And call upon what correction you will follow.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u88	21 Amendments That Are Rejected
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u89	Okay. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u90	I'd like the committee's position to comment on why it's been rejected. And put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u91	The amendment suggests replacing the words "organizational foundations" with "principles for organizing their activities." In this case, the bill does not provide for rules of action, so the committee rejected the amendment and recommends leaving it as it was in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u92	Thank you. I'll take the vote on number 21. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:56:56]] For-30 The decision is not made. 22 lashes, Capplin. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u93	This is about editorial changes in the preamble to the bill. Personally, I believe that in the preamble of such an important, extremely relevant and expected Parliament and the Ukrainians of the bill, which will help to exercise appropriate control and punishment in the future, including the President of the country, should be broader and fully defined without exception of the direction, the task and, accordingly, the subject matter of the bill. Please support my changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u94	The selected correction neither the direction nor the purpose, nor anything. The amendment only suggests switching places, the name, the "special temporary investigation commission" and the "temporary special commission". All of it. The committee rejected the amendment, as the whole bill referred to it, and it was set out in the first reading, and the committee found it inappropriate to change the order of the recalculation of the three committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u95	Thank you. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 22 people's deputies of Kaplin. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. The committee turned her down. [[12:58:41]] For-23 The decision is not made. 23rd Janicki. Don't insist. 24th Janicki. Don't insist. 25th, Captain. Don't insist. 30th Janicki. Don't insist. 31st, Captain. Don't insist. 32nd, Derevyanka. Don't insist. 33rd, Neda. Don't insist. 34th, Buglak. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u96	It is suggested that we determine how. I'm sorry, we're looking at 34, aren't we? Identifying a commission as a "temporaryly active collegiate organ," and you have a proposal as a "collegiate body." Your position on this matter. And please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u97	The committee's editorial says, "collegiate temporary organ." So your amendment is in principle rejected. It was in the edition of the first reading, "collegiate temporary organ." You want to do "temporary collegiate organ." If someone tells me why the first word has to stand, then the second one, we can argue about it. On the committee we decided to leave the first reading, the amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u98	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 34. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[13:00:46]] For-21
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u99	The correction is being rejected. We're moving on. And then there's 35 amendments. Likewise, I give the floor to the distinguished colleague of Buglak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u100	Please comment on the position on the Committee's 35th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u101	First, explain why you insist or why people do not know what you are talking about. And I'm going to comment first on what you thought, and then why you turned it down. You say, "I want to do this because.".. And I'll tell you why we did not include it. Well, it'll be a normal dialogue.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u102	As I understand it, your honorary colleagues, Mr. Buglak's amendment is not satisfied with the committee's position on the rejection of this amendment and he wants to comment on why this amendment was rejected. Please, Mr. Kuprienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u103	By unanimous decision, the committee rejected the amendment because everyone voted in favour of leaving the text in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u104	Thank you. Thank you. The position was understood because it was rejected. I ask you to identify yourself, please, for this amendment to the People's Deputies of Buglak. [[13:02:15]] For 20 The correction is being rejected. I'm paying attention to the reporter that the authors are asking that the committee not only say that the amendment is rejected, it's in the table, given the committee's decision, but it's argumentative. Please, the next amendment is 36, national MP Janicki. Don't insist. 37 amendment, Your Honor, Mrs. Sotnik. You're not insisting yet. Same as the 38th Amendment, Mrs. Sotnik. You're not insisting yet. Thank you. 40 amendment, People's Deputy Krulco. The amendment was partially taken into account. No comment. Thank you. Don't insist. Okay. 42 amendment, People's Deputy Buglak. It was partially accounted for. Don't you insist? Please. Please, Mr. Buglak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u105	I would also like to understand the position of the committee, why it is included in part. And I ask the reporter to explain why.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u106	Please, Mr. Kuprienka, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u107	Yes, you suggest article 1 after. To complement: "Special Temporary Investigation Commission (hereinafter: special.) - it's a temporarily active college body of the Supreme Council formed by the National Deputies.",--and on with the text. In fact, we took this amendment partially into account, because essentially the text is the idea, your idea, it's taken into account. And the fact that there's a little bit of syntax, maybe the wrong words behind it are, well, the committee has adopted such a, that kind of text, because I think it's more understood and more legalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u108	Thank you for your clarification. As I understand it, the national deputy Buglak does not insist on voting on this amendment, but he asked for clarification from the committee. And we've heard that the committee insists that these novices are included in other parts of the law. And the committee thinks that the formulation that the committee has adopted is more legal. Thank you for your clarification. The next amendment is 44, National Deputy Shinkovic. Don't insist. It was partially accounted for. 45th. Don't insist. 46th. People's MP Buglak insists. This amendment was rejected by the committee. Don't insist. Okay. We're moving on. The next amendment is 50th, Mrs. Captain. This is the amendment of the People's Deputy, Olena Sotnik. Please. She was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u109	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 50 amendment, it refers to the exclusion of part two, which defines a temporary special commission as a collegiate temporary body formed by national deputies, to prepare a preliminary review and to develop draft laws on the rights of the committee in fact. I don't think this corresponds to the function of temporary and special commissions, it doesn't apply to the issue of legislative activity. To do that, really, committees have been created, they can work within subcommittees, working groups. But exactly that doesn't have to be done with any additional structures. So I suggested that this part be completely excluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u110	Thank you. I'm asking for an explanation from Mr. Kuprienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u111	The position of the committee is as follows. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, article 89 states that the Constitution of Ukraine provides for the creation of temporary special commissions of inquiry, organization, and order of operation. And the organization and order of their activities are established by law. So it is in the law that we are discussing that part of the article is prescribed. Only from these considerations did we reject your amendment, your proposal to exclude this part.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, so I'm underlining that this is about 50 amendments. And Mrs. Stotnik, as the author of this amendment, insists that it be incorporated fully into the law. I'd like you to identify yourself, please. [[13:06:56]] For-42 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is the same as our esteemed colleague, Elena Stotnik, is 51 amendments. Please turn on the Oleni microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u113	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 51 revisions. I propose that article 1 be completed in part three, where it is clearly stated that it is the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that defines the purpose, quantity and personal composition, and the task, and the issue of providing temporary commissions of inquiry. Because the authors further suggested that the decision would also determine the order of action that directly contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly states that the order of action of the temporary commissions should be determined solely by law. So in order for there to be no variation, taking into account the logic of my subsequent amendments, I suggested that part three be added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u114	Thank you. I'm asking for an explanation from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u115	The committee rejected the amendment, since the requirements of the TSC regulations are set out in part five of article 4 of the bill. Thus, the amendment to this article was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, therefore, we have heard the substance of Mrs. Stotnik’s amendment, an explanation of the committee that rejected the amendment. And now I'm asking the hall to determine for this amendment. Mrs. Stotnik is asking us to support her. Please. [[13:08:37]] For-44 Regrettably, the amendment is not accepted by the session hall. We're moving on. 53 revisions. National MP Neda does not insist. 55 revisions. Dear colleague Mr. Buglak, who has worked very hard to finalize this bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u117	There was a proposal to detail the situation and to complement the words "the order of formation, authorization and organization of the work of the commissions." The committee turned it down. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u118	Please clarify the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u119	Thanks for the offer. By the way, Mr. Buglak has made a lot of amendments, and many of them have been taken into account. Why it's rejected, I'll explain. According to the Constitution, part five of article 89, it provides for the organization and order of the activities of the TSC. So the word "authority" is missing. We rejected this amendment so that there wouldn't be a discrepancy with the text of the Constitution, and in fact it didn't change anything, in principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, we have heard the substance of the amendments made by the national representative of Buglak, as well as the explanation of the representative of Mr. Kuprienka’s committee. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for Amendment 55. Please. The author asks for her support. The committee turned it down. [[13:10:17]] For-40 The correction is being rejected. Dear colleagues, a representative of the committee in charge made a statement to the Bureau that at the beginning of the consideration of this important bill, the committee had requested and suggested that, after each amendment to the screen, the committee should be put out after each amendment. the completion of the consideration of each amendment that we are currently discussing, we have done a comparative table on the screen. Please, please take this into account, output tables, I'll give it to you. [[B in m in s a l in]] An article. Well, it still goes in the text, and it goes in the table, this article, right? Okay, it goes in the text. So, my friends, I'm asking you to consider this request from the speaker, and we're going to give you 10 more seconds so that everyone can follow up on that article and that article that's being discussed. Let me remind you that we had a vote on amendment 55, 40 deputies supported it. Unfortunately, she's turning away. But once again, we thank Mr. Buglak for his great and thorough work on drafting the bill. And the next amendment, 57, is the same thing as the people's representative of Buglak. Your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u121	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u122	Don't insist. Thank you. 61 amendment, People's Deputy Teteruk. Nor does he insist. 60 amendment, People's Deputy Capplin. Friends, the 60th Amendment, the People's Deputy Kaplan. This amendment was partially taken into account in the committee’s drafting. But please, Mr. Capplin's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, I request a part of the third article 1 to be made available in the following edition: "The special interim commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (hereinafter the special commission of inquiry) is the collegiate provisional body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is made up of the national deputies of Ukraine to investigate the circumstances in which the President of Ukraine commits treason or other crimes which have been identified in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to set up this commission, checks the presence, fullness and soundness of the relevant evidence and prepares appropriate proposals for the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the indictment of the President of Ukraine." The need for appropriate changes is due to the fact that it is very important to write down all nuances and references to the very part of the investigation of the violation of the law by the President of Ukraine, because such decisions in the future of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be based on a very beautiful, well-established document.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u124	Please finish. 30 seconds. Please, Mr. Capplin, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u125	Therefore, I would like to support an appropriate amendment. We have in this bill, if there is such an opportunity (I refer to citizens), a critical number of rules are laid down so that we can control, monitor, and investigate the activities of the first person of the state if there is a violation of the law. Obviously, to avoid certain collisions, misunderstandings, to avoid in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u126	Thank you for explaining your correction. We would like to hear an explanation of why the amendment was partially taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u127	This amendment was partially not taken into account when an amendment to committee number 39 was made. If you look at the table, there's amendment number 39, that's exactly what amendment number 60 of Mr. Capplin is. In fact, we took almost everything from Mr. Caplin's offer, what he suggested. And legally, we think we've done it more correctly, and in principle, if we compare, the two texts are virtually nothing different, except for some words that don't even change the content of this amendment. So it's almost completely accounted for. But because some of the words were changed there, we wrote that it was partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u128	Please place the law on demand in this article, where we discuss it, on our monitors. And, colleagues, I ask you to identify yourself for 60 articles. Let me remind you that it's partially accounted for. I'm putting her to a full vote at the request of the People's Deputy Kaplan. Please. [[13:15:38]] For the 17th. So this article remains. This amendment, more faithfully, remains with the committee. It's partially accounted for. The next is 62 amendments, Janicki People's Deputy. Don't insist. 65 amendment, National Deputy Sotnik. This amendment was partially taken into account. And, please, we give the floor to Mrs. Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u129	Thank you for the opportunity, Madam Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. If I could, I'd still like to get from the committee a more expanded explanation of how it was partially accounted for. I honestly didn't get it from the text yet. This amendment refers to the application of the Constitution of Ukraine. In particular, as I have already pointed out, the ruling of the Supreme Council can be determined, of course, by purpose, by quantity, by order of security, but organizational matters of activity, by order of operation of the interim commissions of inquiry may be determined solely by law. So if you can, explain where I need to find in this table an introduction in accordance with this principle of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u130	Please explain to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u131	Part four of the article is as follows. "Organization and order of action of the commission of inquiry, the special commission of inquiry and special commissions shall be determined by the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council Regulation, approved by the Act on Rules of the Supreme Council, these and other laws of Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with them." So in this part, we've written down a list of all legal and legislative acts starting with the Constitution and ending with a Supreme Council ruling. So what we're referring to is that everything that's in legislation is that legislative basis, based on the standards that these three types of committees are going to work on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u132	Thank you. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to have to get the law out on our monitors, at the request of the reporter. And now I can put to the vote article 65. I'm putting her to a full vote, as Mrs. Sotnik insists. Colleagues, please identify yourself. [[13:18:23]] For-40 So this amendment, 65, is left in the committee's editorial form, so it's partially counted, in part. We're moving on. 68 amendment - partially counted. National deputy of Semimenach, don't you insist on your word? Okay. 70 amendment, People's Deputy Guljav. Don't insist, okay. 73 amendments, the national deputy of Kaplin, were included in part. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Kaplan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u133	I propose that article 1 be supplemented by a new part of the fourth, of the content, of a separate part: “Organization and order of action of the commissions and special commissions are defined by the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, these and other laws of Ukraine, adopted in accordance with them by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which define the purpose, quantity and personal composition, tasks and other matters of ensuring the activity of the commission concerned”. Mr. Reporter, it is stated that such an amendment is taken into account, please explain where? And if that is not the case, I ask the House to vote and support this, extremely important, part as a reference to fundamental laws and the Basic Law of Ukraine, which will regulate in the future the activities of the relevant new institutions created by the decision-making process of today's discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u134	Yes, we have taken the proposed amendment into account, and along with the committee's editorial, it has been translated into that fourth text. an article that we have just considered. And once again, it says that the organization and order of the commission of inquiry (one, two, three) is governed by the Constitution, the Supreme Council Rules, and here is the reference: "the approved Ukrainian Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council." We did it specifically for that, and you rightly pointed out in your amendment that some, especially citizens, are confused: they say, "The Supreme Council Regulation." And the Supreme Council Rules Act contains only two articles: to approve the Rules and enter into force. That's why we've been paying attention to it, and that's how we've taken your amendment into account, actually, editorially, in the text of the bill itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u135	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm asking you to bring out our reporter on request right now. And now me. Yes, it is. And you will learn that the national deputy of Kaplan, who is the author of 73 amendments, provides an explanation that has just been given to him by a reporter - honoring colleague, Kuprienko. In the meantime, we colleagues are moving on. And now we have with you an amendment of 79 people's MP Melnik. Mr. Melnik, are you insisting? No, you don't. Okay. The next one is 80, the People's Deputy of Kaplin. Please, Mr. Capplin's microphone. Colleagues, the amendment of 80 of the Kaplan People’s Deputy was part of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u136	The ideologie of the tens of rights that I have worked on and proposed for the bill in question is based on the need for precise accounting and disclosure of a separate subterranean in relation to a special commission of inquiry, possibly criminal activity or suspected of violating the law by the President of Ukraine. Please tell me where the corresponding revision is counted. And if not taken into account, I ask you to vote and support the appropriate idea, which is directly presented in the changes that I propose with this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u137	Thank you. This amendment refers to the name of the article. The point is that according to the Supreme Council’s decree, which we voted on, we supplemented the law with a section on a special temporary commission of inquiry. And that's why in the name of both the articles and the text of the law, we all complemented the committee's name accordingly. So your amendment is edited. Well, why not completely? Because order, there's a "special investigation commission" and a "temporary commission" just switched places. So we didn't break by law the order of these commissions. And so the name came into the title of the article, and it came into the order, which is the first, which is the second, which does not matter. So it's written that it's edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u138	Does the committee’s explanation please you, or does it please you? Kapplin’s national deputy, who is the author of this amendment, is satisfied with the explanation of the committee’s representative. I ask you to bring to the screen the articles of the bill that we are currently discussing. Yes, everyone has paid attention to who needs it, on our monitors, who doesn't have a table right now, or the very text of the law. Next up, guys, we're moving on with you. The next article, article 82, was rejected by the committee. Please, Mr. Buglak, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u139	I consider the amendment I have proposed to be very important, which provides for the addition of article 2 to a new part of the following content: "The commission's work does not replace knowledge, previous investigation and judiciality." I would like to understand the position of the committee on the proposed amendment and be sure to put my application to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u140	Thank you. I would like to ask for an explanation now for the session room by a representative of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u141	According to the draft text proposed for the second reading, it, this amendment, the text and the idea of this amendment, is already taken into account and is actually absorbed by the content of the text proposed for the second reading. So essentially the proposed text we rejected, and the idea and the essence of the amendment itself, it's in the idea of the text that's written in the text that the committee is proposing for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u142	Thank you for your clarification. I ask now, at the request of the people's representative of Kuprienka, who is the rapporteur for the TSC bill, which is extremely important, to produce a table, more faithfully, a text of the bill on the monitors. Notice what we're talking about here, colleagues. This is the 11th article on the commission of inquiry and the rule of law and the decision-making of these committees. And I'm asking you to identify yourself all of you as amended by 82, colleagues, the amendment of the People's Deputy of Buglak. Please be sure. The committee turned it down. Our colleague insists that we support his amendment to improve this bill. [[13:26:09]] For-37 The correction is being rejected. But we're moving on. And if I'm not mistaken, the next amendment is 89. It is the same as the national deputy Buglak, who has made enough amendments before. It's the 88th partial. Mr. Buglak, there's an 88th amendment of yours, which was partly taken into account by the committee, and I understand that you demand it first, and then by 89th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u143	I don't insist on 88. I insist on 89.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u144	Then, please, 88 was included in part. Mr. Buglak is also editing the committee that polished the amendment and partially accepted it. And now the 89th, which was completely rejected by the committee. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u145	It was suggested that after the words "collegiality," there was an idea of what: the collegiality of "controversy." It's very important, from my point of view. Please take into account. Or the position of the committee, why it is not counted and put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u146	Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u147	The committee rejected the amendment because when it says "collegiality," we can't limit ourselves to the fact that the question can only be dealt with collectively. And the decision to make and the other action to take? To that end, the commission creates that this is a collegiate body, that all decisions are taken jointly, that the vote is taken and that most of the votes are taken. If we consider this amendment, it turns out that they are only going to consider questions collectively. How can you decide? And it's going to sound a little incorrect. That's why we rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u148	Thank you for your clarification. Please print the text of the law on the monitors. All drew attention to who was interested in this article of the bill. And I would like to make up my mind about 89 articles. [[13:28:26]] For-37 The correction is being rejected. Next is the '90s. It was rejected in the same way. This is also the amendment of the national representative of Buglak. Please turn on Mr. Buglak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u149	There was a suggestion in the first part of article 2 that the words "and reasonableness" should be replaced by the words "reasonableness and reliability." I think it's very important. I'd like to ask the committee's position on this matter on the grounds of authenticity. And it must be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u150	Thank you for explaining your correction. Please explain the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u151	The committee rejected the amendment because the text of the bill states: "the validity of the decisions, conclusions and proposals taken." Both the decisions and the conclusions, the proposals should be based on something: evidence, materials, eyewitnesses, and so forth. The credibility, if we write "reliability," is already a comparison with the truth, it can already be done by the court in assessing the evidence, and the commission can verify the authenticity and say that we have accepted a credible conclusion, it is not legally correct. So we rejected this amendment and ask it not to support it. It will legally be wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u152	Thank you for explaining to the committee. Please bring to the monitors that article of the bill, which we are currently discussing because of improvements in the bill. And, colleagues, I'm now asking for 90 amendments to the people's representative of Buglak, who was rejected by the committee, and the author is asking for support. [[13:30:27]] For-34 The correction is being rejected. There's a call from the session room to the reporter to have you vote in the same way, so that your card will be in the vote. I have to sound this position. Please consider this request from our colleagues. And now the 91st People's Deputy of Kaplin. This amendment was partially taken into account. Please, Mr. Capplin, you have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u153	91 revisions. Well, as an expert lawyer, you know that basic genetics, the root genetics of any bill, are principles. Because when there is a prosecution of one or another of the laws, some or other legal consequences of the bill, the judges often refer to the principles themselves. And with this right, I propose to maximize the current legal principles on which an appropriate bill will be drafted, including the addition of such things as publicity, publicity and so on. In this way, we will be able to give our citizens the maximum procedural ability to monitor the course of events in one or the other investigations, to receive reports and to overcome similar activities in the Ukrainian politics of culture and sublimeness. So first: please explain where this rule is included in the body of the bill. And if it's not fully accounted for, vote now and support the changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u154	Please explain to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u155	The committee took into account the partially marked amendment. What is it? In the proposed text, we ruled out the word "presence," because when it comes to a special temporary commission of inquiry investigating a possible act of criminal crime or treason by the President, there may be cases where perhaps there is no need to show it out loud, because it may not be confirmed. But the word "biased" was added to the text. So the committee thinks that by replacing the word "presence" with "biasedness," in principle, we're solving this question of the independence of these committees, and so everything you've proposed, apart from the word "presence," was included in the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u156	We thank you for clarifying the position of the committee. Mr. Capplin, are you satisfied with this explanation? He insists. Mr. Kaplin, the author of this amendment insists on her full vote. First of all, I ask for a bill and this article, which we are discussing in the context of the amendments. All those who wanted and interested MPs paid attention to the text, were able to see what we were discussing. And I'm putting amendment 91 to the full extent required by the People's Deputies of Kaplin. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:33:47]] For-31 The amendment remains with the committee. We thank the report that he joined the vote on the amendments that have been discussed. And we're moving on. The next two amendments -- 92th, 93rd -- are the amendments of the people's, the people's MP of Janick. He doesn't insist. Then the amendment is 100, Mrs. Helena Sotnik's national deputy. 100. Sorry! We have a national MP. Colleagues, so the next amendment is 98th. This is the amendment of the people's deputy Kaplan. It was partly counted, but our colleague insists on the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u157	It's the same ideological law that applies to the system, actually, to the construction of the entire terminology base of this bill. As a lawyer with an almost red diploma, I am a proponent that all institutions, which are created by appropriate legislation, are clearly reflected in the basic names and in the basic definitions of the law. And that's why I insist on voting in favour of this amendment in order to reflect in the title, and in the basic interpretations, we have all these key elements, namely a special commission of inquiry, which I think is the main function here, is to explore the potential violation by the President of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u158	Thank you for explaining your correction, for the information about your diploma. And please comment to the committee representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u159	This amendment is taken into account in part because the list of committees proposed by Deputy Kaplin is in the text of the bill, the order of another. The committee decided that the ideologies for such bills -- the less politics and ideologies -- the more action there would be. We're adopting a bill to get him to work. And by which, first, second or third, which commission will be named in the bill first and second, it has nothing to do with anything other than that ideological ingredient. And in order not to break the whole bill and throughout the text don't change the order of the list of commissions, we've taken into account, in fact, partially taken up the list of what you have, and left the order that, by the text of the law, is preserved throughout the text of the law from the beginning to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u160	Thank you for your clarification. At the same time, the people's deputy Kaplan, who studied very well at the university, is now in the hospital, but is working on the amendments, insists on full voting, in full terms of the amendment. Be determined, colleagues, please. [[13:37:19]] For-22. The correction is being rejected. And we're moving on. The next amendment is Mrs. Stotnik, a 100 amendment that was rejected. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u161	Thank you for the opportunity, Madam Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 100 amendments apply to the transfer. In fact, we have article 3, "Responsibility and duration of the commission of inquiry, a special commission of inquiry and special committees." I suggest we change places. The logic must first be followed by the order of the commission of inquiry, and then their accountability and activity. So any further changes I make, they're going to be about eight, they're going to apply exactly the changes to the text from the logic that I came up with, that article 3 would be the order of the commission of inquiry. So in order to make it easier for those national deputies who are listening to us right now, it is all the following amendments that will apply to the order in which the commission of inquiry is formed, not to the accountability and the timing of the activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Oleno, for explaining your amendment that you were moving solely on the subject of this amendment. And I would like to ask a representative of the committee to explain why the committee rejected this fundamental amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u163	The question is that when amendments and proposals are made to a bill that changes the numbering of articles, that's my personal opinion, and, in principle, the committee's opinion that it's in one amendment to make it visible, systematically, that it comes out. And yes, even if we now vote on article 3 as Article 4, and it's not clear without a complete picture, it doesn't fit the structure of the bill. And if there was a 3rd, 4th, 4th, then it would be obvious where it's going. And so it turns out that the amendment that you're proposing, it makes sense, it makes sense, it might have the right idea, but since it's given by individual amendments to articles 3 to 4, then 5 to, 8 to, and so on, it can't be treated separately by itself. So the committee rejected her. The structure of the bill after numbering is affected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u164	Thank you for your clarification. Mrs. Olena, do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Ms. Sotnik, the author of this amendment, was pleased to explain to the committee why the amendment had been rejected. We see that this article, which we are currently discussing, has been fulfilled and the requirement for a reporter to bring to our monitors the substance of the law. We're moving on. We have the 101st amendment next, it's the same thing as Mrs. Captain. And I'm asking you to turn on her microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u165	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I understand, of course, the logic of the previous committee, but unfortunately, the technical legal requirements do not allow them to fully explain, unfortunately, this is how the table is formed, although the logic was still present. I think it's worth taking the committee into account in the structure of the bill first of all the logic of the lecture. But as I returned to my 101 revisions on the still order of the commission of inquiry, I had the suggestion that the commission of inquiry consisting of at least three persons was formed in the Supreme Council. To complement the question of "in stock," more precisely, with the word "in stock of at least three persons," so that there is a minimum requirement for the quantity composition of the TSC and that, at least, each interim commission of inquiry has a corresponding head, deputy head and secretary. And in principle, the idea that there should be a minimum number in the TSC allows it to unlock, as it was before, the work of the initiated Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u166	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u167	Thank you for the opportunity. I'll finish my logic. It allows us to actually unlock a very large number of initiatives by the National Deputies to create temporary commissions of inquiry, because very often factions block themselves without giving their members to the TSC, and then, when they don't form from all the factions, we actually have blocked ideas of very important temporary commissions of inquiry. Here was the idea that this is a minimum number, at least three is, that's enough for a temporary commission of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u168	Please explain the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u169	Personally, I fully agree with you that we have the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry that, according to the Rules, when committees are formed, all factions must submit their representatives. He does not want the largest faction to investigate the activities of their friends, political associates, or business associates there, to provide representatives, and the commission. How many times on the regulatory committee we rejected proposals because there were no candidates for the committee. But this is not the subject of regulating this law. This should be prescribed in the Supreme Council Rules. By the way, the draft, the bill of amendments to the Rules, is in the Supreme Council's apparatus and has long been uncontested. So it's rejected because, in principle, it doesn't fit the structure of this bill itself, and, well, we can't write "not less than three" here, and the Rules will write "at the suggestion of factions and MP groups." So this amendment is rejected, even though the idea is rejected. Personally, as a lawyer, as a lawyer, as a lawyer, I fully support the idea that there should be an idea so as not to fail the commission's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u170	Thank you for your clarification. Mrs. Sotnik, do you insist on voting? Yes, colleagues, I have also complied with our request to issue an article on the law that we are discussing. I ask you to identify 101 amendments, which, I stress, refers to the possibility of not blocking the work of the TSC because of the absence of a quorum and bringing the quorum to three persons. Please be sure. [[13:43:32]] For-43 The amendment is not accepted. Next up, 102 revisions. It's just like our colleague, Mrs. Sotnik. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u171	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Again, I continue my logic of the proposal that I proposed to complete the creation of temporary commissions of inquiry, in particular by going back to the story of blocking factions the ability of those or other temporary commissions of inquiry. Well, you and I understand that there will always be a conflict of interest in factions and coalitions. And they're going to try to block it. So in order to strengthen, firstly, the rights of opposition, to strengthen parliamentary control, we still need to look for a way out. My way out was simple enough. First of all, if they don't, really, the factions of their candidates, that's their right. At the same time, without these candidates, the interim commission of inquiry will still operate. The second idea was that the seats on the interim commission of inquiry were distributed according to the D’Ondt principle. This makes it possible to be as honest as possible to be represented to all factions according to the number of factions of those or other factions. And actually we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u172	Please finish. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u173	Thank you. And in fact, we introduced our first practice, European practice, a perfectly fair distribution of seats in the temporary commission of inquiry. Sadly, though, this idea was not supported. Although I don't think that in a special law we would be able to resolve these issues, including this issue of conflict of interests of large factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u174	Thank you. I ask for clarification from the committee representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u175	Again, I fully support the idea that it is necessary to create, not to do, but to regulate the creation of commissions of the Supreme Council so that the largest factions cannot block their work. But this, again, is a matter of the Rules. Not a specific law, but where the section on special temporary commissions of inquiry is prescribed, how it is formed and so on. As for the other committees, this rule is set out in the Rules and is not subject to the regulation of the bill. And if we write in this bill right now what you're proposing, although it's perfectly correct and intelligently written, it's going to conflict with the Supreme Council Rules, and without change there we can't bring it here. So the committee's proposal is to make this law, which will regulate the activity itself, as it will be. And where they are formed and are already regulated by the Rules, sorry for the tautology, there must be order and order to ensure that these commissions are not blocked by the largest factions in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u176	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take the article on this bill to the monitors we're currently discussing. I'm asking to be appointed after the amendment of 102 people's deputies, Mrs. Sotnik. She explained the point of this correction very carefully. Be my guest, colleagues. [[13:46:49]] For-37 Correction is not accepted by the hall. The next is 103 amendments, and so is Mrs. Captain. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u177	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 103 revisions. I propose to delete the standard in the table -- this is from article 4, article 9, in particular, where people's deputies are obliged to write certain statements about their inability to participate in the interim commission of inquiry -- this does not exactly correspond to the status of the national deputy. So I suggest you rule that out. Nevertheless, in response to the Committee's previous comments, I would like to say that, in my opinion, in fact, if we do not change the Rules, the adoption of the Act, even if it is signed, still its work, the effectiveness of its work will be at great stake. It would therefore be right, for example, even in the Final and Transitional Regulations, to write that it was necessary to make appropriate changes to the Rules in order for this law to work effectively, and that would allow it to finally unlock the changes that the Rules require for the Regulatory Committee to adopt in the Supreme Council in accordance with the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u178	Please explain from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u179	In this case, I fully support Mrs. Sotnik's position, because once again, once again, I stress that the problem of the creation of temporary investigation committees, the investigating commissions of the Supreme Council, is so prescribed in the Rules. Well, if you look at the history of who and when it was prescribed, it would be clear what principle was then laid that the authorities would never be able to allow the commission to test it. That changes to the Rules should, in principle, be made is a bill to amend the Rules of the Supreme Council, where all these points are prescribed. But in this case, we're coming out of the text of the bill that we voted on in the first reading, and you're not going anywhere. So we have that text of the bill that was in the first reading. We're working on it to make it an effective tool, at least to describe how these committees are going to work. And to the procedure of creating them, I think we'll go back to looking at the changes to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u180	Thank you for your clarification. Please post the article on the monitor. Colleagues, please proceed to the 103rd Amendment of our colleague of the People's Deputies, Captain Helena. [[13:49:27]] For-37 The correction is being rejected. 104 amendment, as was the authorship of Mrs. Sotnik's national deputy. And I'm asking you to turn on Mrs. Sotnik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u181	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 104. The amendment refers to the settlement of the issue of conflict of interest in the case of the inclusion of a member of the interim commission of inquiry in accordance with the National Deputies, in which he may potentially be present. And this clearly suggests a footnote on terminology and measures to regulate this potential conflict of interest, which is applied in accordance with the Anti-Corruption Act. I know that, thanks to some amendments, the text for the second reading is this, and it's complemented by a clear welcome. Because I believe that the work of the interim commission of inquiry is primarily there, and I know from my practice, first of all that there are national deputies who have no conflict of interest in the subject, who investigates the interim commission of inquiry or investigates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u182	Please comment to the committee representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u183	The issue of the conflict of interests of loved ones, connected persons, and so forth, is regulated by a separate norm in the law. And according to current legislation, it works in defining those that are in the laws on corruption and so forth. In this case, I want to draw attention to a comparative table. It's written that it doesn't fit the structure of the bill. So we actually have a numbering problem again, because part nine and part nine of this article, it's basically completely different. So once again, I'm going to all the people's deputies: when you're amending the bills that change the structure, you have to write in one amendment where they're going. Because with respect to the people's deputies who have already received higher education in this office, maybe not all of them have red diplomas, but if everyone had legal education, national deputies, the work of our legislative body would be much more effective on the head. So she was rejected, well, I explained why.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u184	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, please report for 104 corrections. [[13:52:00]] For-37 Thank you very much, Mrs. Sotnik, who has been very actively involved in the drafting of the bill on temporary commissions of inquiry and has prepared a series of important amendments. The next amendment is the same as 105, Mrs. Sotnik's national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u185	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 105 amendment suggests solving the issue, and by the way, it remains a gap in this bill, and what if the conflict of interest of the national deputy, who is a member of the interim commission of inquiry, is already revealed in the work of this interim commission of inquiry, how then to be and how to change it. So I suggested this procedure. If I say, going back to the order of amendments and the structure of the bill, if there's logic, especially in the regulatory committee, I think it's exactly present when the national MP points out in his amendment that he's replacing the article with another one in the numbering, and then according to the text of his table he's making changes to parts of the replaced numbering itself, then in principle it's technically right to make proposals to the bill. So I don't see any problems here for the committee to deal with and, first of all, to take into account in the substantive drafting of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u186	Please explain to the committee the important amendment regarding the solution to the issue of conflict of interest. The amendment committee rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u187	In terms of structure. The fact that the amendment does not correspond to the structure of the document is shown in the compare table. As far as the matter is If we're going to build up the law with what it is. What if the conflict of interest arose later or was discovered? What if a person with a conflict of interest later denies or denies something? We can cram this bill with procedural norms that can, in principle, make it impossible for the commission to work. It's described in the law. Well, if there's a conflict of interest, it turns out that a person has declared it or someone has declared it, it's reflected in the vote because it's a college body, it's a commission, and if something depends on it, then there might be a question of how to get out of it. And in this case, in fact, the idea has to be. But so to say that one point, well, in the committee's view, it's inappropriate, let's say, build up, cloud the bill by solving procedural issues that can.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u188	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u189	or maybe not in the process of work. And to predict any situation that might arise in the commission's work, well, it's unlikely that any of the authors of any bill will succeed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u190	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, we see on the monitors a request for a report on the relevant article of the bill that we are discussing right now. And I'm voting on amendment 105, which concerns the conflict of interest of the deputies who will work on the interim commission of inquiry. Ms. Sotnik, the author of the amendment, asks for support for this amendment. Please. [[13:55:33]] For-30 Colleagues, we're moving on. The next amendment is 107. 106, I'm sorry. So is Mrs. Sotnik's national deputy. Your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u191	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. This is an amendment to part 12 of the bill of article 4. It establishes that the head of the commission of inquiry may not be elected head of the committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm adding this to one more condition: "or the person who assumes the duties of head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at a time when the position of head of the committee is vacant." I'm going to remind you that we have eight committees at the moment with 26 no heads, and the first substitutes or substitutes are doing them. So these cases, as we can see, are not unique, and this gap should definitely be complemented by this condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u192	Please, Oleg Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u193	Thank you. The amendment was rejected on the grounds that it did not, in principle, correspond to the structure of the bill in the first reading, and it was unknown to which article it had been introduced. But in this case, because the author of the bill. The amendment author explained, well, I can explain that, according to large estimates, the work of any national deputy in any commission created by the Supreme Council is not, in principle, an obstacle to their basic obligations to work on a committee or to manage a committee. Moreover, in the absence of the chairman of the Rules Committee, he has deputies who can do so. I don't think that requires further regulation by another legislative act.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u194	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm voting on Amendment 106. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:57:40]] For-25 The decision is not made. 107th. 108th. 107th doesn't insist. And 108th, Captain, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u195	Yes. Thank you for the opportunity. 108 amendments, once again, explain the logic of some issues that need to be settled. In particular, part of the thirteen existing part. Article 4 of the bill, which states that: “The head, the deputy head and the secretary of the commission of inquiry may not belong to a single MP’s faction.” But my logic came from what might be the situation: to unlock the work of temporary investigation committees, if it were the will of individual factions, it could actually be created even by members of just one faction. This is also possible when I talked about the minimum number of 3 national deputies. So it would be worth adding that, "except in cases where only one faction is part of the commission of inquiry." Then, in fact, in such an exceptional case, it would be possible for all of them to replace these positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u196	Please, Oleg Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u197	The committee rejected the amendment. In principle, the fact that we did not take into account the previous amendment for 3 persons and the fact that the creation of a commission is governed by the Supreme Council's Rules and not by the bill that we are considering, I also think that it may be inappropriate in this same bill to prescribe procedural standards in the work of the commission, which is already in the Rules. Otherwise, if we consider this amendment, we will have a conflict between the Supreme Council Rules and the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u198	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 108. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[13:59:50]] For-23
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-04-m0.u199	The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, let's figure out where we're going to start working after lunch. 109th, Olena Sotnik. Then, Mrs. Helena, I'll ask you to be on the job at 4:00. The next amendment, 109, is yours. And, Mr. Oleg, I also ask you to be in the session room at four o'clock to continue our work. This morning's plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. At 16 o'clock, I invite everyone into the continuing room.
