ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please take your seats. I have an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and be quiet in the hall. I'll have an announcement. Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Mr. Urbanski, Mr. Skorik, would you please tell me about Odessa? Thank you. Dear colleagues, I probably won't talk much. Everyone knows about the tragedy that took place in Odessa. Sadly, 14 people have been killed, perhaps under floods. It's a tragedy. A tragedy for the state, a tragedy for the parents, a tragedy for the family. I think it's a waste of words. Can I have a minute of your silence, please? [[A Minute of Silence]] And we'll expect it to be a miracle. Let's get started. Please prepare to register. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[10:13:09]] There were 354 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. A statement came from two factions. A break? Are we going to change the break to a performance? "The Fatherland" and "The Voice." A break of 30 minutes is announced. I'd like the faction leaders to meet in my office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Heads of factions, please come to me for a moment, heads of factions and MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues! Please prepare for work, and we have already wasted a lot of time. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, we have three of our colleagues' birthdays today. This is Mikola Leonidovich Galusko, Mikola Mikolaajovich Zadrodzny and Mikhailo Borisovich Raducci. With the celebration of you, fellows! [[Applause]] Please get ready for work. The apparatus, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, since the latest material on the agenda for the Electoral Codex (registration number 0978) has arrived too late, it is proposed to postpone its consideration. If there's no objection in the room, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. I don't think we should vote on the changes to the order in which matters are dealt with. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You're invited. Solski is a motive for how to deal with matters. It's a motive. Please turn on the microphone from the Solski rooster for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u3	Bill 2370, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, reporting to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, since it was to go after the Electoral Code, they planned to come up a little later, then move it to the hearing a little later today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u4	Thank you. Then I would like to begin by asking: a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to stabilize the functioning of the public compulsory social insurance system (registration No. 2275). Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:04:12]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to the Third Party Galina Mikolayovni. Galina Mikolayevna, are you from the authors? Are you the author? Then four minutes, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! Your view is suggested for consideration by the bill to amend certain laws of Ukraine regarding the stability of the functioning of the public compulsory social insurance system (registration No. 2275). You may have witnessed the destabilisation of work two weeks ago when the fund’s director was reinstated and the crisis was artificially created, it was artificially announced that the social insurance fund was not operating. In fact, treasury funds the social insurance fund properly. The bill amends the Basics of Ukrainian legislation on compulsory public social insurance and the Law on the Organizations of Employers, Their Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Their Activities, proposing: a review of the principles of the formation of the governments of social insurance funds, a change in the representation of social dialogue parties in the administration of the Fund of Public Compulsory State Social Insurance. At present, it is 7-7-7 (from the state, the employers' SPO and the employers' SPO) for 10 representatives of the state and 4 representatives from insured persons and employers. And to strengthen state control over the Fund by providing the Cabinet of Ministers with the functions of appointing the Executive Director of the Fund, and to appoint the Deputy Director and Executive Directors of the Fund to provide the Executive Director with the Executive Director of the Fund in agreement with the central executive authorities that will ensure the formation of public policy in the area of social protection. Amendments to article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance also propose that the definition of the term “medical conclusion” and that the electronic register of invalidity certificates be an integral part of the register of insured persons of the State Register of Stately Compulsory State Social Insurance. So we're going to attach an electronic hospital letter. In addition, the draft Act proposes to amend the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act to extend the Act to members of the government and officials of the executive directors of the Social Insurance Fund. I'm going to remind you that this fund's budget and cost is just 24 billion dollars this year. The implementation of the bill will not require financial or other expenditure from the state budget, but will help balance the budget of the fund. In addition, the proposed positions will contribute to the financial stability of the social insurance system due to temporary loss of employment from an accident in production and occupational diseases, as well as to the optimization of the use of funds from the fund, which will contribute to the improvement of the level of social protection of insured persons. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the outcome of the first reading to be adopted on the basis of a bill under the procedure provided for in article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules without applying the ad hoc procedure provided for in part two of this article. When preparing the bill for second reading, take into account proposals and amendments to other legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading, such as the holding of a job competition, and the making of declarations to persons representing the interests of the State, insured persons and employers in the management of the fund, as well as the responsibility of officials, as well as the settlement of other matters in the field of public compulsory social insurance. In view of this, please support these suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u6	Thank you, Olena Mikolayevna. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in factions. Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u7	Please pass the word to the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u8	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u9	It's a royal one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u10	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u11	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! About the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, each of you has received a single request: do not destroy the social protection system in our country. Well, don't ruin what's still working today. What are you suggesting? You propose to cancel the system of tripartism in Ukraine at all. Well, that violates all our international agreements. As dinosaurs, they're going to look at us all over the world and point their fingers at us: look, this is a country where there's no balance between state, trade and employers. Well, you all understand very well that the social insurance system is not a system of government liabilities, it's a system of guarantees today that if a person is unemployed or gets into an accident at work, if a person earns a pension, the state guarantees today that it will provide support for that person. You have an example, the Pension Fund. The Pension Fund has no tripartism. The pension fund today is on the verge of bankruptcy. You get out where you have full authority, where there are no unions or employers today, and where no one is holding you back. Why are you dragging other social security funds under your control today? I see very big corruption risks here. And you're getting involved in this today. You don't have to ruin what you don't understand, what today takes away the rights of trade unions and employers, what today will lead to the destruction of the social insurance system. "The Opposition Platform for Life" is against this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u12	Thank you. Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u13	Please pass the word to Rostislav Pavlovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u14	Rostislav Mikolaiovich Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u15	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Rostislav Pavlovenko, "European Solidarity". Dear colleagues, in this law, what has been done for a very long time on the balance of the interests of the state, employers and trade unions is really being destroyed. Thus, such a systemless approach does not support us. We will abstain from voting and encourage the hall to work very carefully on this project for the second reading if it is supported in the first reading. You really shouldn't ruin what's just starting to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u16	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u17	Please give the floor to a colleague of the people's deputies, Dmitri Lubintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u18	Dmitry Valeriovich Lubinets.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u19	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national deputies, I call upon my colleagues from a great majority, read the conclusion of the GNEU: return to work. What do you want to do? The social partnership that is currently in the Social Insurance Fund is a state, employers, trade unions. At the expense of employers, the Social Insurance Fund is funded – 24 billion dollars. They give money, they take part in the distribution and operation of this fund. You want in violation of the Constitution to give over the administration of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Employers give money, and we'll manage it ourselves. Where's the logic? You are simply ruining the logic of social partnership by this law. Then there will be no factor that would give employers an argument about paying the premiums, increasing wages, because they will not take part in the administration of the Social Insurance Fund. So I urge you all, if you don't read the bill, read the conclusion of the GNEU. Don't vote for this bill. The MPs won't vote for the future. We support employers, we support workers who are protected through the Social Insurance Fund. Think about what you're doing. It's going to be a totally corrupt situation where the Kabin will be able to manage these funds by hand, and the people who fill this fund, the employers, will have no impact on making decisions. Think of the people who represent you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u20	Thank you. It's Sergei's. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich. All those who wish to speak? Out of motive? The chess of motive. Then we go to the vote. I'd like to invite the people's deputies. Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u21	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Honorable Presidium, honourable Head of the Committee, honourable colleagues, in fact, when no hardship is paid, no hospital payments are paid, people go to power because the authorities are responsible for everything that is going on in the state. But we can see what really difficult processes are going on in the Social Insurance Fund, which is formed on the basis of the Act in force on the parity of State representation, trade unions and employers. The bill proposes, first of all, that the head of government be appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers. This, by the way, is contrary to the current Cabinet of Ministers Act. And the next thing is when the bill proposes to appoint 10 representatives from the state, i.e. from the Cabinet of Ministers, and 4 from employers and trade unions. It's not the same thing. And we have calls from representatives of various professional organizations, including professional organizations. There is also a position of employers that this bill does not support in the first reading. If changes are made to parity in the second reading, then the faction of the Fatherland is ready to support it in the second reading. Unfortunately, in the first, we will not vote or abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u22	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, a minute of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u23	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, I fully support the words of Natalia Kraljevsky, Dmitri Lubinz. Today, each of you, your esteemed colleagues, must read every letter of the bill. Today, they want to distribute fully the funds that come in and should be paid for social security and social insurance. Look what they did to the Pension Fund in 28 years! 260 billion today is a hole. At the expense of the pensioners, they wanted to completely shut down the Lugansk and Donetsk regions that were occupied and at the expense of the Crimea. It was Reva's predecessor who wanted to hide behind the Pension Fund. And what happened? Nothing. Today there are no social guarantees. There is no free medical operation today. There is no free education today. Please tell me, where is the country going today? To the chasm? Will we still think about people? Thank you. This bill cannot be supported today. We'll be in solidarity with everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u24	Please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the stability of the functioning of the public compulsory social insurance system (registration No. 2275). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:18:44]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Show the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 228, "Response Platform for Life" – 1, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 0, "Voice" – 12, "non-factional" – 9. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Law on National Geographical Data Infrastructure (Registration No. 2370). I would like to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:19:38]] For 243 Decision taken. The report is given to the Deputy Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of the High Taras Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! Bill 2370 on the National Geospatial Data Infrastructure is proposed for your consideration. What is the national geospace data infrastructure? The first is the introduction of the single window principle. This will allow for the integration of 14 basic data sets by natural resources, infrastructure, and statistics into a single platform. The second is that it will allow real-time updates to be made. And the third is to reconcile the data to all the authorities that eliminate the possibility of corruption. Another important block. The full openness and freeness of geospace data will be introduced. In fact, in order to get this data, any consumer, any business, you just have to be authorized and used for free. This will increase the gross domestic product to half a percent additional in a year. Third. This bill introduces the international principles of INSPIRE and corresponds to the UN Integrated Geospatial Information Strategy, which is fully in line with better international practices and European principles. Four. Each year, the state loses about 100 million dollars because of disagreements between the various administrators of cadastres and resources. This will also be saved for the budget. And last of all, what's really important is that this is now the next revolution in geospatial data and cadastres after the first one they did in 2013, taking a single cadastral. The profile committee supports that. We also ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u27	There'll be no questions? It's all right, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u28	No, it's not. The report is given to the head of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, Solski Mikola Tarasovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u29	The honourable chairman and honourable colleagues, the Committee on Agriculture and Land Policy at its meeting on November 28, 19th, reviewed the bill on national spatial data infrastructure (registration number 2370). The committee noted that the bill proposes to establish a modern system to provide for the needs of society in all kinds of geographical information, to ensure intersectoral integration of geospace data. As the bill was discussed, Ukrainian national deputies, members of the committee, noted that the adoption of the bill would ensure the integration of Ukraine into the European and global spatial data infrastructure. At the same time, according to the provisions of part one of article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, the Committee noted that in order to achieve the purpose of the bill, taking into account its complexity, there was a need, when preparing for the second reading, to reconcile its provisions with other structural parts of the bill and (or) the provisions of legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill (registration 2370) can be adopted on the basis of further comments and suggestions. As a result of the discussion, the Agrarian Policy Committee decided to recommend a draft law to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u30	Thank you, Mikola Tarasovich. Please register: two in, two in, two in factions. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u31	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, plus this bill. This is a bill that was drafted under the Association Agreement with the European Union, where we have to build a legislative base that works in the European Union of Al Inspire. What does that mean, colleagues, think about it. We're creating this 3D Ukraine. That's great. But we're bringing in state border, administrative and territorial units, hydraulic buildings, buildings, highways, railways, engineering communications, ports, everything. Including our property and land with you, and so on. What's wrong with me? First. That this law clearly states that there should be access to legal and physical persons, the possibility of anonymous review. Who's that? Russian, boots and so on. There's gotta be a blockchain. They have to look directly at the National Security Committee to figure out who will have access, or whether we're going to get information in fact, well, in the registers we're going to see that these people are going to be identified, not some boots. Next up, colleagues. We're changing a lot of laws. Laws on the Forest Code, the Earth Code, topographical and geodetic activity, land, environmental protection, science and science and technology, space and so on. Believe me, it takes a lot of work to make this law effective, so that it is protected, and that our data with you does not fall upon those to whom we do not want. So we need to work hard enough on this bill and make sure that this 3D Ukraine, believe me, works in the interests of the Ukrainians, and these anonymous legal persons definitely don't have access, and we knew exactly who will use this data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u32	Thank you. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u33	May I have Klimenko Julia, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u34	Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u35	Congratulations, colleagues. The Voice faction will support this bill because it is an essential part of the reforms that are now being implemented in Parliament and in the government. It is also essential for the land reform that is being discussed. Because without proper administration. The implementation of these reforms and the availability of data are virtually impossible to implement. But we want to support our colleagues in the Fatherland faction, and yet this bill needs to go through a clear national security expertise. and it will also have to provide for sufficient funding in the budget for the implementation of this bill. Because, according to practice, at the level of execution, at the level of the budget, it usually ends. And there's no money for buying quality equipment and quality products. Therefore, we would also like to anticipate the budget for the implementation of this bill. Thank you. We'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u36	Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Why would anyone want to speak? Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u37	Thank you. I want to give a word to our colleague, Savichuk Oksani Vasilovni. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u38	Savichuk Oksana Vasilovna, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u39	Good afternoon! We worked with the Future Group on this bill, actually, I would like to make a number of important substantive amendments that we will have to initiate in order for this bill to be one that will actually work. The first thing we see in this bill is that we can read it differently and treat it differently. Who fills the register, who's responsible, is it important to write it? Next. We need to be clear about complementing and dividing by category, dividing the categories into urban, urban, environmental, tourism, and the population. Because right now it looks like a property register, not one that can be divided into sectors of responsibility, geodesy of an economic nature. More importantly, this cadastra may complement local self - government in places, but it must be the responsibility of the State as the main holder of this resource, and local councils can complement it. To do that now, they just need to give them proper access and they'll provide for themselves, and they're better able to fill it up in terms of the categories that you and I were going to write in more detail. And one more thing, very important, I ask you to take this into account: don't put financial responsibility on the local councils. Because the local councils will not draw these additional services and they will not develop. So the state has to be the holder and financially maintain it, and the local councils can fill it in with that information on the spot and then it'll be an active product. Another very important thing is that actually control has to be put hard by the rules of information, secrecy without any supervisory advice, we have all the legislation. And thus, in fact, allowing each clear rule to appoint a person to complement it. If we do all of this, I think this document will work and be filled with true data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have they all spoken, for reasons, no one wants to? Then I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on National Geographical Data Infrastructure (Registration No. 2370). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:31:42]] For 322 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 229, "Resistance Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 20, "Fatherhood" – 11, "For the Future" – 15, "Voice" – 18, "non-factional" – 29. Don't break up the national MPs, please. Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, out of procedure, one minute. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, we're a little late this morning, we have such a busy schedule of days, especially in the final part of the Veterans Bill and the elimination of those corruption schemes in the estimate that we promised to eliminate by the end of the year. So please continue our plenary session until the day’s order is exhausted today. I think we can work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, a proposal has come from our colleague to continue our session until the order of today’s plenary meeting is fully exhausted. There's no objection, is there? Are we moving on? Yeah. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, come on, there is a hall he will now determine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is determined. Dear colleagues, I don't think we should discuss this. This is an offer, and we should put it to a vote. Dear colleagues, I am proposing to the national deputy Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak that we continue our work until the order of today’s plenary session is fully exhausted. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:33:54]] For 254 Against the 25th. Abstaining — 90. Thank you. Decision taken. We continue our work until the day’s order is fully exhausted. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been invited to consider the draft Law amending the Ukraine Code of Land and some other legislation against registration (registration number 0858). The report is given to the head of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, Solski Mikola Tarasovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u43	Honorary colleagues, the presiding officer, have been brought to your attention by the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee for the second reading of the draft Law amending the Ukraine Code of Land and some other legislative acts against registration (No. 0858). The bill was discussed at the meeting of the committee on November 6, 2019, and the committee noted the following. The bill introduces changes to a number of Ukrainian legislative acts that will allow for a comprehensive resolution of the issue of anti-residence and prevent illegal land capture, seizure of property and the acquisition of corporate rights of enterprises. In preparing the bill for second reading to the Committee on Agriculture and Land Policy, 87 proposals and amendments, including 83, were rejected by the legislators. The National Committee members of Ukraine noted that the adoption of the bill would allow the legislative level to create effective safeguards to counter illegal land grabbing, as well as to ensure that the State’s land cadastre was filled. As a result of the discussion, the Committee recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a second-reading bill and generally as a law with technical legal development. In particular, we would like to point out that this bill was adopted in the first reading by the previous Parliament, noting that it was coming. give due consideration to the deputies who introduced the bill in the previous call, particularly to the head of the committee on these matters, Mr. Kulinić. Moreover, separately, since there is still time, I want to stop at the important points that allow this bill to be regulated. The first is that when the bill is introduced, the State Register and the State cadastre will act not in a semi-automatic way, but in an automatic way. The second important point is that the bill obliges you to digitize all information previously issued public documents and registered leases and to submit this information to the cadastre as soon as possible, introducing safeguards for counterfeiting notary documents. In addition, there is a more perfect procedure for the renewal of land leases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u44	Thank you, Mikola Tarasovich. Dear colleagues, national MP. Almost all the revisions are included. Would you please tell the national MP of Tarasov that you insist on your rights? Don't insist. Kulinich. Regulation 76. One minute, please turn on Kulinich. But all the other changes, I think, are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u45	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I won't insist on my work. I'd like to point out that this bill is transitional. In the past, my colleagues and I worked with him on an agrarian committee. I was a co-author and initiator of this bill. Right now he's completely balanced, ready to vote, and we all hope that with the adoption of this bill, we'll make it impossible for us to have the disgraceful notion that we now have -- the raiders' admiration. And that's very important. And I hope that all these anti-traders will go back in time, and in the agrarian sector there will be no, I repeat, this phenomenon, and the agrarians will work perfectly fine without worrying about the consequences of their work. So I ask my colleagues to support this bill as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] What's your deal? No, there's no motive here. Dear colleagues, 93 lashes. Nagaevsky. Don't insist. Let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Now the vote. Ready to vote? Please, Fris, give me a minute. After that, Ivchenko is motivated, and we move on to the vote. Fries Igor Pavlovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u47	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I want you to take this bill seriously enough. You and I have previously voted on Bill 1056-1 on prevention of raiding. So this bill, which was announced in the Council's previous call, introduces completely new interesting mechanisms that also provide additional protection against this registration. We're introducing a completely new notary action, which is now called the prohibition requirement. We can make a ban on doing things not in a notary form, which means that the owner has the ability today to limit land leases and contracts for the sale of corporate rights in any way other than notary. This is an additional protection of property rights. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u48	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgeniovich, a minute of motive. Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, I confirm that this law was developed in the past. He was voted in the first reading by a large number then. In 2016, we had a massive raid: farmers were killed, farmers were tortured, farmers were killed by their children or wives. This was a shameful phenomenon that we fought against, including changes in legislation. That's why there are three important standards here, especially to prevent logging in the agricultural sector. People can now have the requirement of notarizing the extension of the lease. Third: Online access of registrants to the State Land cadastre. And the fourth is that we're removing paper from any weights, and now they're going to be transmitted online. We're solving part of the land survey and we need to vote for it. Thank you. "Paternal" is for.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u50	Thank you. I hope that, in fact, we will see a good result on the board after the vote. In the fight against raiding, in the fight against raiding. We're going to see a lot of pros in the fight against raiding. Is that all right? Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukraine Code of Land and some other legislation on the resistance to registration (registration No. 0858). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:43:08]] For 362 Show me the factions, please. The People's Servant Party – 225, Opposition Platform – Life 34, European Solidarity – 22, Father's Day 18, Voice 18, non-factional 27. Thank you again for the result of this vote. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Law on the Defence of Procurement (registration number 2398) and two alternatives: 2398-1, 2398-d. Wait. Dear colleagues, I am now. We'll be back. I don't have any material on my hands right now. In principle? Dear colleagues, calm down, stop fighting in the hall. Dear colleagues! Calm down! Please take your seats. Please, it's like a kindergarten! Take your seats. Well, grown-ups! It's not your place either. If. I remind you, there are spares. Please take your seats, let's get back to work. Dear colleagues, let's get back to work. Please take your seats. Please take your seats. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the formation of state policies in the fields of work, employment, employment and labour migration. — Registration No. 2168. Not out of motive. No, it's not supposed to be. Okay, after the vote for this bill. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to the Third Party Galina Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you, on October 31st, we decided to adopt registration number 2168 in the first reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u52	Please take your seats again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u53	Let me remind you of the essence of the bill. In connection with the redistribution of powers in government regarding public policy in the field of employment and employment, from the Ministry of Social Policy to the Ministry of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, the government in a number of legislative acts has determined that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has delegated them from the Ministry of Social Policy. Thus, the text of the bill adopted in the first reading reached the committee with 49 rights from six national deputies. After drafting the bill, the committee concluded that all amendments were proposed to be rejected. Corrections have been made. The proposal made by the national deputy Yvchenka is rejected because it violates article 116 of the Rules. The rulings of the People’s Deputies of Solod and Natalia The Jury of the Royal have been rejected because they propose to leave the authority regarding the employment relationship in Minsk. The amendments of the People’s Deputy Papiev are rejected because they propose to extend the powers of the Ministry of Economics and to establish its list in the laws. Amendments 13 and 16 by Michael Mikolaiovich propose to provide funding to the State Employment Service in the 20th year at the expense of the State Budget of Ukraine. But the state budget for the 20th year is not budgeted for these expenses. The proposals of the people’s deputies Batenko and Konstanovic are editorial and do not correspond to the body of the bill. As a result of the discussion of the bill at its meeting on 13 November, the committee decided to approve the text of the comparative table and to adopt the bill in second reading and in general as a law. Please support the bill in the form proposed by the government and the editorial committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u54	Thank you. Now we're going to do the editing. Amendment number one of the Royal. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to this bill. Well, that's, you know, nonsense when we're being reformed, when they're transferring authority from one ministry to another ministry. Well, there's such a little censory anecdote that changing furniture places doesn't change quality. But it's certainly not the place where the amount is changed. And that's why we're asking you very much: from the Ministry of Social Policy to the Ministry of Economics, the employment in our country will not increase. Jobs, I want to tell you the news, it won't open up. And debts on wages won't pay off. That's why this bill is so stupid. And I ask you to vote for the first amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u56	I'll bet on the vote number one of the Royal People's Deputies. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:50:35]] For-81 The decision is not taken. No. 2, Papiev. Don't insist. Edit 3, Papiev. Yvchenko, number four. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u57	Colleagues, you. Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Fellows, you know, if you want to completely destroy social relations in Ukraine, if you're proposing such a Labour Code, or if you're proposing it, it's clear to me that you want to get rid of the Ministry of Social Policy. You think what you're doing. You're transferring social policy functions to this great ministry called economic development. The Ministry of the APC has been canceled, and you're canceling the MINS. If you think it's true politics, I'll tell you, you want to get rid of the social functions that the state has to perform. "Paternality" will be against this law. And I'm asking you to support me and leave it to those who will be involved in social policy in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u58	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u59	Committee position: the law is brought into effect in violation of the requirements of Article 116 of the Rules. This item is not included in the first reading. 116th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u60	I'm betting on the vote number four of the national MP Yvchenka. It's not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:52:27]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Amendment number 5, Royal. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, one more secret for you is that if you destroy social policy in Ukraine, there will be no reduction in the number of people with disabilities, black people, veterans, pensioners. From what you're doing right now, you passed the law this morning when you destroyed tripartism and destroyed the rights of trade unions and employers, and now you're in charge of eliminating the Ministry of Social Policy. I'm surprised at your government, because if I were a minister of social policy, I'd be blocking the rostrum right now, and I'd be standing on the ground, and I wouldn't be able to destroy this ministry right now, because it's a function of the state. I understand you don't want to do any more social protection functions, so we insist on voting on this and against this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u62	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u63	The edit is rejected because it breaks the supply structure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u64	Amendment number five, the Royal People's Deputy. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. The committee is not supported. [[11:54:08]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 8, Royal. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u65	I insist. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u66	Natalia Yuriovna, are we going to find a way to unify the legal system?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u67	No, it's not. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention again. We have this strange ministry called the Ministry of Economics. Yesterday, there were parliamentary hearings in this room on the ground where the Minister of Economy, "Damn!" shouted the entire chamber, where the minister of economy was reminded that today he was initiating the sale of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, you are now proposing to this minister to pass on the functions of social protection to the people. Well, Your Honor, this will lead to him lobbying the Labour Code. What he wants in the Labour Code. He wants to deprive working people of their rights in Ukraine at all. We don't have enough. We don't have enough jobs. We have debts on wages. He's not doing anything, and you're giving him such infinite functions. I insist on voting for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u68	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 8 of the Royal People's Deputy. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:55:43]] For-94 The decision is not taken. 11 o'clock, Batenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u69	Dear friends, with all due respect to the reporter, I think that if there are editorial issues, as you think, they should be taken into account. Because we see that there are some internal contradictions between the provisions of the bill. In particular, it is a question of what, for example, is the question of work, employment, employment, and social policy that you are dealing with, dividing between different ministries, and the question of compulsory government social insurance refers to the recognition of one ministry. Articles of Disagreement, to which you will return. Why leave them now to correct later, to leave time for correction? Let's fix them now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u70	Thank you. 11th Amendment of the People's Deputy Batenka. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:56:52]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 12, Royal. Don't insist. Papieuve, 13 revisions. Next. Amendment 14, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u71	Two minutes, please, in the 12th and 14th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u72	No, Natalia Yuriovna. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I'd like to see you again. If you think the Ministry of Economics is going to do the job very well, please invite the Minister of Economics, and let him present to us a program of employment that he will do. Now from him, apart from the destruction in Ukraine, it's the Earth Code he's proposing, the sale of land, now he's preparing the Labour Code to destroy a working class in Ukraine at all, and you're giving him the right to form all relationships with employment and employment policies in Ukraine. Please, there is international practice, there are clearly defined functions of responsibility and protection by the state, this is the practice of social policy. That's why we're absolutely against this bill. And please place 14 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u74	I'm betting on the vote number 14 of the Royal People's Deputy, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:40]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 25, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, by destroying social protection in Ukraine, you will not be rid of 2 million people with disabilities in Ukraine, more than a million black people, out of 2 million displaced persons, from those who need social protection every day. You can't get rid of the fact that today there are over 3 billion dollars in debt on salary. Well, why does the minister of economy who wants to get this job so badly, and he didn't hit his finger to secure at least a payday for state-owned enterprises today? Why are you doing this now? Whose lobby do you stand for here? Who do you now accept this bill for? At a time when people don't have money to buy food in the country, we spend time on really technical things. We definitely don't support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u76	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 25 of the Royal People's Deputy. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[12:00:19]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! There's a break until 12:30. Please don't be late.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u77	Please invite the national deputies to the hall and prepare for work. Dear colleagues, I propose to welcome our guests to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely the Romanian City Small Academy of Student Youth Sciences. [[Applause]] Nice to meet you! Have a seat. I don't know if there's anything very interesting here, but, well, it's our job. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Such announcements have not yet been made in the Supreme Council, but this has been the first time. Someone lost it in the dining room room room number 316. Please take a look. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's hard to answer. I haven't checked yet. If there's nothing wrong with it, no one's lost anything, right? Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question of the daily order. Amendment number 30. It's a royal one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that today we have in our country the highest level of debt on wages since 2001. Today, we have a violent migration in the country. Every month, 100,000 citizens leave the country, seeking their fate in other parts of the world. Today, in our country, the highest level of job cuts and the closure of industrial enterprises. Dear colleagues, this is all under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economics, and we believe that today the time has come when the Minister of Economics should stand in the rostrum and report, because it will soon be 100 days as they work, and with every day of life in the country it will get worse. And you suggest that he be given further authority to rule the country. That's why we're absolutely against this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u79	Are you insisting on your right? Or will you not insist on the latter? Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna, very much. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Batenko, number 44. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u80	Dear friends, we had this week, last week, a similar problem with the separation of customs and tax authorities. And we're doing the same thing right now in the same situation where we're dividing economics and finance from employment, employment, labour migration. Why are we doing this? We will still have to make changes to the current Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with this administrative reform. Let's not let such nonsense and clean up these situations right now, and then don't waste time fixing them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u81	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u82	The committee rejected these amendments because they did not respond to the body of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u83	Do you insist on voting? Dear colleagues, and I remind you that we are about to proceed to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. I'm betting on the vote number 44 of the Batenka People's Deputies. It was not counted by the committee. That's why I'm betting on the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:42:07]] Z-85 No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the formation of state policies in the field of labour, labour relations, employment and labour migration (registration No. 2168). Ready to vote? Honorable colleagues, heads to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:43:30.]] For 264 Decision taken. Thank you. The law is passed in general. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Law on the Defence of Procurement (registrations: 2398, 2398-1, 2398-d). It is suggested that this bill be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:44:13]] For 244 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee on National Security, Defence, and Intelligence, Copitin Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u84	The honorable Presidium, the honourable national deputies, the legislation in force in the area of procurement for the safety of the bloc has.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u85	Igor Volodymyrovich, into the microphone, you're not quite heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u86	Excuse me. The legislation in force in the area of procurement for safety blocks is seriously flawed by excessive secrecy, regulation of procedures, manual control of supplier selection processes. Competitive procedures are currently virtually lacking in defence procurement, so the issue of changing legislation in this area is one of the most relevant for strengthening national security in the country. The aim of this bill is to ensure effective and transparent procurement, create a competitive environment and prevent corruption in defence purchases, develop fair competition, effective and transparent planning, implement and control of defence purchases. This law also provides for the harmonisation of Ukrainian legislation in the area of defence purchases under Directive 2009/81/EC in accordance with the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. Dear colleagues, please consider this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u87	The Committee's conclusion. Tell me. Give me an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u88	With regard to the conclusion of the committee on this bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security, Defence and Intelligence at its meeting on November 26, 19th, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Defence of Procurement (registration No. 2398), submitted by Igor Kopitin, National Deputy of Ukraine and other Ukrainian national deputies. The bill, by definition of legal entities, has been designed to regulate the purchase of goods, jobs, and defence services. This bill also provides for the harmonisation of Ukrainian legislation in the field of defence procurement with the provisions of Directive 2009/81/EC in accordance with the Association Agreement. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the members of the committee have pointed out that the project is a progressive legislative initiative that regulates relationships that have not been regulated at any legislative level or regulation that has left a large field for abuse, corruption and discrimination. At the same time, it has been noted that the project is largely a reflection of the new version of the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act, which will lead to legal commissions to ensure the sustainability and systemic regulation of public procurement. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded on 15 November 2019 that the first reading of the bill would have to return the subject to the legal legislative initiative for further development. In view of the above, the committee unanimously approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 2, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Defence of Procurement (number 2398), as a result of the first reading of the rejection. Please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u89	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Sit down, Igor Volodymyrovich. Ukrainian National Deputy Besugola Mariana Volodymyrna
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u90	Gentlemen, in the course of work and work within the working group and the committee, an alternative bill was drafted, in fact, a continuation of the logic of the previous bill with the work of the working group. So Bill 2398-1 is introduced as an alternative to the Ukrainian Procurement Defence Act (2398), registered on 07.11.2019, taking into account the following. First of all, this is a reconciliation between the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement, which took effect on 19 October 2019, but which will only take effect in April 2020. It also takes into account the recommendations of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, as well as the need to take into account the position of a wide range of stakeholders who held appropriate meetings within the working group, and the proposals of the President's Office aimed at improving procurement procedures. The bill provides effective mechanisms for protecting a domestic producer, including the priority of localisation of production in the customs territory of Ukraine, as well as the possibility of adjusting the terms of the agreements made in the event of a substantial change in the financial and economic situation; and the application of the criterion of the "value of life cycle" in the selection of contractors that meets better standards of NATO member countries and the EU. Accordingly, we will report to the committee's amended draft, take into account both projects and propose a committee-assisted draft. Now this is a report on 2398-1, which is the logical continuation of the committee's working group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this matter? Yes. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in factions. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u92	Please pass the word to Sergey Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u93	Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, we have three bills under consideration that are not really very different from each other, although one of them is slightly better than the other two. Two of these bills received negative conclusions from the Chief Science and Technology Administration, and they were completely fair in their conclusions. In fact, this bill is often very much duplicated by the current Public Procurement Act and the great, such an urgent need for its approval. But given the sensitivity of the military sphere, given the overemphasis on defence purchases, this bill has the right to exist. But it has to work very hard, because there's a lot of discretion, there's a lot of things that envision double interpretation, there's a very arbitrary understanding of laws, laws, forgive. That's why we're in charge of supporting the "d" bill in the first reading, but provided it's properly worked out, because if it doesn't, it won't make it any better, it won't make it any easier, it might even make it worse. It will not be unnecessary; it can become harmful. I'm just calling your attention to the fact that this bill has yet to be worked on before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u95	Thank you. Nesterenko Kiril Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u96	Good afternoon. 26th District, Dnipro City. Please give the word to Fedor Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u97	Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u98	The honourable Presidium, the honourable national MPs, this bill, which is now being proposed to you for consideration, aims to address the problems that today exist in the field of defence procurement. We are all witnesses to a number of scandals that have not yet come to a logical conclusion, which are evidence of numerous abuses in the field of defence purchases. The proposed bill, of course, is not irreprehensible, it has some disagreements, some discretion, as the previous reporter rightly said, but it is a bill that is called upon to eliminate primarily the corruption component in defence procurement. And of course, before the second reading, this bill can be worked out substantially, but on the basis of the first reading, it's a completely normal draft of the bill. That's why I'm calling on all the national MPs to support this bill at 2398. Until the second reading, the Committee on National Security, Defence and Intelligence made every effort to obtain a completely normal working and indisputable law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u99	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u100	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please give me the word of Zabrodsky Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u101	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I do not fully agree with previous reporters. First of all, this law really, I mean 2398-d, compared to two, the previous ones that we've been looking at are the most perfect. And in my opinion, it contains a very serious potential in the form of at least four fundamental things. First, defence purchases, under this law, may not only be subject to the administration of the State, but also others designated by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Subjects, thus reinforcing the mechanisms for protecting the interests of the national manufacturer. Secondly, our law specifically specifies the characteristics of defence purchases. Their species are listed in a well - defined list and have a legal basis for the application of individual procedures. Next. Finally, the criteria for assessing the bids of purchasers have been worked out. So for example, the localization criteria, we know, increased from 15 to 25 percent. And the fourth. The characteristics of the prosecution of court decisions and the actions of the contracting party in applying the simplified selection procedure without the use of the electronic purchasing system have been developed. In fact, this law allows for the introduction in the Armed Forces of a model that is very similar and successfully used by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and which has always been subject to a certain degree of military envy towards the representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Our faction will undoubtedly uphold this law in full reading and call upon this to be done by respected colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u103	Vlasenko. Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u104	Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, Nadjajchenko, faction of Fatherland. I'd like to go directly today to every defender and every volunteer, all the more on Volunteer Day. What the Defense Procurement Act should be about. The Defense Procurement Act should be designed to allow our defenders in our factories to produce and obtain everything they need to defend themselves: safety modules, drones, modern tools. In Donetsk and Lugansk plains, as well as in the vicinity of the sea of Asia, in Prizab, winter is coming. How many modules have been built and delivered to the front? Those who don't know, I answer: none. How much can the Ukrainian factories of Dniper, Zaporozhye and Harkov produce? I answer: hundreds. So in this law, we wanted to see the main thing that, at last, the state, the government, as the main investor, would invest in the Ukrainian defense, in the Ukrainian defence and industrial complex. Why do you put only 25 percent of the localization of production? Why does 25 percent of the defenses sell this law and say that it will be better? I'm telling you right now, 25 percent of the defense is 75 percent of the loss. Hence, it is not about defeat, but the strengthening of the defence and the defence industry must be the law. In defense, we must not get richer, and defense must make us stronger. And the profit from blood and wealth that was in the previous Ucroborprom must be punished, not called problems. It is for these crimes that all high - ranking workers who have stolen are to sit down for their lives. And the new law must strengthen the security and production of us. Not to support the import and foreign lobbyists, along with their offshores. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u105	Please, everyone who wants to speak? Is there no one on the motive? Please prepare for the vote. And invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Procurement Defence Act (Registration No. 2398-d). Please take your seats, prepare for the vote, distinguished national MPs. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:58:30]] For 293 Decision taken. Thank you. Show by factions. The People's Servant Party – 232, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 1, "European Solidarity" – 21, "The Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 4, "The Voice" – 17, "the Non-Factional" – 18. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine on the Temporary Procedure for the Application of Articles 470 and 481 (Registration No. 2288). It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[12:59:22]] For 253 Decision taken. The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u106	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, Ukrainians! The draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine on the Temporary Procedure for the Application of Articles 470 and 481 (Registration No. 2288) is proposed for consideration. I would like to remind you that on September 22, 2019, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Code on the Limitation of the Use of Penal Sanctions for Infringement of the Procedure for Importing of Vehicles into Customs Areas of Ukraine, under number 73-IX, has suspended the imposition of fines for Euronomist drivers by the end of the year. However, this goal has not been fully achieved. This law has not changed the application of the new rules of the Customs Code, which have established new types of responsibilities and more stringent sanctions. We had a fine of 170,000 dollars for exceeding the import or transit deadline, so we had a large number of citizens complaining about the size of the bill and some injustices. In this regard, it is suggested that additional amendments be made in the Customs Code. In order to address the issue of the customs handling of the car on euronomers in a comprehensive manner, to ensure that the customs rules are complied with when the car is moved in the customs regimes of temporary importation and transit, and to take account of the interests of all types of the population in this matter, Bill No. 2288, which is before your consideration, has been drafted. The draft law complements chapter XX, "The Final and Transitional Positions". However, since transport equipment imported by resident citizens in connection with the use of its obligations under contracts of employment with non-resident entrepreneurs today is considered a means of personal use, the need to suspend part four of article 470 and part four of article 481 has failed. Proposal to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code on provisional application.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u107	Give me ten seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u108	The 470s, the 481, the 2288s, take as a base the first reading and shorten the half-time preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u109	No discussion? No, let's just write down the factions that want to talk about it, because it's faster. Please note: Two in favour, two in opposition, by factions who wish to speak in the discussion. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u110	Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u111	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I want to thank the committee for its fruitful work. Indeed, we have made this situation right today, and today many people are waiting for this moment not to pay the heavy fines that have been incurred as a result of a previous mistake. But we're correcting it, and that brings out this situation today in exactly the context that the President asked for: to allow for a car with customs cuts by December 31st, to put an end to this issue. And in general, support that the following year there will be a blur in the new law at a new time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u112	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, a reputable reporter! You've just stressed that you're correcting a previous error, but you're not correcting it again because you're greatly expanding the subject of your draft law. This is the first time. And secondly, you don't really solve the problem you want to solve. I told you about this at the committee meeting, and you've been skeptical about this one more time. And today you're putting in a bill, again not ready to solve the problem that you're trying to solve with the President. So I suggest only in the first reading, but it seems to me that this bill will no longer be unnecessary, because the period of action you are transferring it to will no longer have meaning, because it will not appear, will not be published until the end of the date on which you are insisting in your draft law. So either in the first reading, or in general, reject it, and work on the goal that you set for yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u114	Nadajchenko Volodymir Aleksandrovich. Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, with regard to this bill, I would like to pay attention to why at first it was his idea to accept it in the first reading and in general why it could not be done. Because I hope that was a technical error in the writing of the law, there are articles 4-6 on which goods are distributed in this law. I'm paying attention to all the deputies who are going to vote to get this right before the second reading, otherwise it's a totally corrupt and smuggled ingredient. In particular, all personal items other than transportation are allowed by this bill, except for transportation, from August 22 to December 31, to take them to Ukraine and, for example, to lose an iPhone car, lose it somewhere along the way, pay a fine of 8,000,500 dollars, and then quietly implement it. So once again, I point out that the second reading should be corrected. And that's why "Paternity" is the principle of dealing with this issue and bringing the issue of cars into line, but it's against such fine excuses being introduced. So we keep a close eye, I'm paying attention to everyone in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u116	Thank you. Bondar Victor Vasilovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u117	Please give the word to Batenku Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u118	Batenko Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u119	Dear friends, as you know, we fixed one of the Europlum fines a month ago until December 31st on compliance. which do not comply with the conditions of the temporary importation customs regime. But there are still a number of fines laid down in the Ukrainian Customs Code, not smaller, but larger, more severe sanctions. But what's the point? Obviously, it is foolish in this bill to prescribe the suspension of fines until December 31, 2019. So obviously, I agree with the argument that Mrs. Nina Yuzanin made, and we need colleagues on the profile committee to sit down and work on it for a second reading, and take off these obviously standards on December 31st, and, in principle, settle the question of responsibility, eventually settle this issue of blurry once and for all for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine concerning the provisional procedure for the application of articles 470 and 481 (Registration No. 2288). Please prepare for the vote. 2288. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:08:28]] For 311 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we don't put it in general, but I suggest we cut back on the preparations for the second reading. In line with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half the deadlines for the submission of proposals and rights and to prepare for the second reading. Bill number 2288. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee. The committee called, so I'm putting a cut in the vote. Please support and vote. In a week, he can be voted on. [[13:09:22]] For 258. Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to create favourable conditions for businesses and organizations that are based on social unification of persons with disabilities. Dear colleagues, registration numbers 2439 and 2439-1. We have to vote for inclusion in the agenda. We need support in 226 votes for inclusion in the agenda of the plenary. Please support and vote. [[13:10:24]] For 318 Decision taken. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[13:10:48]] For 332 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:11:11]] For-286 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, this is about. In fact, this bill was supposed to be the head of our income tax subcommittee, Julia Didenko, because she spent a lot of her personal time studying the problem of people with disabilities and taxing their activities. She personally visited the disabled and saw how important the tax system was to them and how important it was for them to keep the zero VAT rate that was discussed in our bill and to continue it for five years. It seems to me that there will be no one in the room who will oppose this decision, since it is not just a tax benefit. It's not about money at all, it's about social justice, and it's about social adaptation of people who are physically incapable of working under normal conditions, like people without disabilities. So we're the committee, all the committee that unanimously supported this bill, asking that we support this bill as a basis and as a whole, and perhaps even without discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u122	The word for the report is given to the People’s Deputy of Royal Natalia Yuriovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, the proposed Bill 2439 creates the right vector in today’s difficult conditions, and it is essential to strengthen social protection for people with disabilities. We are very aware that businesses and firms where people with special needs are working today cannot compete fully in the market, conditionally, market conditions of our Ukrainian environment and have an urgent need for appropriate support from the state, including the tax sector. And that's why "The Opposition Platform for Life" supports this proposal and has prepared an alternative bill because we think that without tax support, the economic activity of enterprises and organizations of social groups of people with disabilities can be completely destabilized, and their social component can simply fail. And in order to avoid such a negative situation, to create favourable conditions, economic conditions, for the activities of the listed enterprises in the long term, we propose to continue for 10 years, by 2030, the term of the zero premium tax on added value in the supply of goods and services that are produced and supplied by organizations or enterprises of persons with disabilities, and to bring current legislation into line. And we're proposing to support our alternative bill because it's a more long-term condition, but it's certainly possible to work on both the first and the second drafts for the second reading. We advocate that people with special needs be supported not only in this way, but also in order to expand the complex today. And first of all, we insist that we bring bills to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u124	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u125	Bills aimed at raising the living minimum, paying people with disabilities, paying people to care for children with disabilities and bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is it necessary to discuss whether we can move on? Two for, two against, factions. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u127	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please give the word to Nina Petrovni of the South.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u128	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, actually speaking, said that it was necessary to continue this standard, and that's true, and it's done every five years. It is Parliament's acceptance of the continuation of the zero rate for the taxation of transactions in goods produced by these organizations that is the first. And as long as we don't have a comprehensive national programme to be implemented in our country, we have to at least give at least to make it easier to provide jobs for these people. However, we did have a decision yesterday at the committee meeting to continue this rule for five years. And that's in the committee's decision. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, I ask that we take into account, in the overall vote for this bill, the decision of the committee given to us today and we see it. Replace in paragraph 9 of Chapter I of the bill the figure "22" with the figure "2025". It's a practice, it's going on for five years, it's in Transitions, so that's how we have to apply this approach. Thank you. And in general, only with this extension, until 2025. In the committee's decision, once again, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u130	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, this bill was literally discussed on our committee yesterday. You know, he's one of the biggest committees, but the decision was made unanimously, and all the members supported not only this bill, but he made a change and went on for more years. So, Mr. Speaker, your honorary colleagues, before we vote on the bill, give the floor to the head of Julia Didenko to report on these changes again, they have certainly entered the final text of the bill, which I hope will be supported not only today but in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u132	Thank you. Alona Ivanovna's starch. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u133	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Your Honor, the chairman, the presidency, the honourable colleagues! Indeed, a bill of great importance is needed. But I'll start with history. As early as September, the "Fatherland" faction led by Yulia Timoshenko registered Bill 2022. Why am I paying attention to this and asking the leadership of Parliament, the heads of committees in the future, to take this into account? The bill submitted is a copy of our bill, which has been in the secretariat since September. Three important sub-items have been thrown out. But it's not that important to us who the authors are, it's important that we all have the same rules of the game. Yours is everything, and your opposition is the law. In fact, it's a bill. In fact, it is important and necessary. But, dear fellows, I'm addressing ministers: the task of the government and the whole of power is to create conditions for organizations that are founded by societies, social organizations with disabilities to be able not only to benefit from aid, but also to produce their products under government orders. Come on, they're asking, we're ready to work, create a level playing field for us. And this is the task of the whole authority that these organizations, where the participants and founders are disabled or persons with disabilities, have the opportunity to be truly equal members of society and to earn their own living. That's what they're asking us to do. Fatherland will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u134	Thank you. The word is Natalia Igorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u135	It's a royal one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u136	Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Then, with Didenko's motive, we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, we once again support this bill and we urge everyone in this room to vote as the first or second bill, because it is a very important thing. But I want to point out once again that in our country there are 2 million, 659,000 people with disabilities, and most of them are people who need attention today. And it's very good that we're taking the first step right now to provide special conditions for people who have the opportunity to work today and have access to their jobs, but they're very, very few. At present, there are 9,000 500 people with disabilities in 265 businesses receiving benefits. It's definitely for 2 million 800,000 almost nothing, it's a drop in the sea. And that's why we're proposing a comprehensive consideration of this issue. The bill package is registered in Parliament. Our political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" has prepared a comprehensive decision on people's solutions and support. And we ask, let's get together, it's not that big of a money, but it's the people who are citizens of Ukraine who have been waiting many years for the state to pay attention to them when we're with you today to save the "Slovenian" sanatorium. It's the only sanatorium in Ukraine today that supports people with disabilities, but unfortunately, it's in a very difficult state right now. And we're talking to the speaker, we're talking to the law enforcement agencies, we're talking to the Ministry of Defense, so notice, we're going to save the "Slovakia" sanatorium. And the second, more important, the block is to review social standards. It's the disability payout, it's the return of aid for people with disabilities, it's the provision of rehabilitation services today. Because, unfortunately, the state has not helped for five years, and today people need special attention. We'll support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u138	Thank you. Didnenko Julia Alexandrovna, with motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u139	Honorable Presidium, fellow Ukrainians! By supporting the legislative initiatives of the authors as a whole and by stressing the speedy adoption of the relevant amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code, the National Deputies of the Committee commented on the terms set out in the Bills for the continuation of the zero tax rate added to enterprises and organizations established by the social unification of persons with disabilities for 2 years and 10 years respectively, and proposed a compromise option to extend the term by 5 years, until 1 January 2025. And this proposal was supported by most of the committee members. In this connection, under the transcript, I will make an announcement to the committee's proposal, which is stated in the committee's decision: "In paragraph 9 of Chapter I of Bill 2022 replace by 2025." In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Creation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u140	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u141	. activities for enterprises and organisations that are established by public associations of persons with disabilities (registration number 2439) to be accepted as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's sound proposals and technical legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the creation of favourable business conditions for enterprises and organizations based on social integration of persons with disabilities (registration 2439). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:26:05]] For 369 Decision taken. Show by factions. People's Party - 237, Opposition Platform - Life - 30, European Solidarity - 21, Parenthood - 17, Future - 18, Voice - 18, Non-Factional - 28. Dear colleagues, the committee is offering as a whole. How many factions against? In general. Let's put it all together. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the creation of favourable business conditions for enterprises and organizations based on social associations of persons with disabilities (Registration No. 2439). Please support and vote [[13:27:26]] For-360 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you all. Show me the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 236, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 28, "The European Solidarity" – 22, "The Fatherland" – 15, "For the Future" – 17, "The Voice" – 17, "The Non-Factional" – 25. Thank you again for such a successful vote. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider two ratifications, but start at 0009, because a deputy minister has not yet arrived to report. I propose a draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters between Ukraine and the European Union on the amendment of trade preferences for bird meat and processed bird meat provided for in the Agreement on the Association between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their member States, on the other hand (registration number 0009). It is suggested that this bill be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:28:53]] For 266 Decision taken. So let's go over the bill essentially. The report is given by the Deputy Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture, Sergio Anatoliyovich. On the rostrum, please. Would you like to vote now? (There's a company here, you could've stayed here.)
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters between Ukraine and the European Union on the Change of Trade Preferences for Birds Meat and Reprocessed Birds Meat, provided for by the Agreement on the Association between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their member States, on the other hand. The agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between Ukraine and the EU was concluded on July 30, 2019, in the city of Kiev. The provisions of the agreement provide for amendments to the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU to increase by 50,000 tonnes the amount of annual quota for duty-free imports of bird meat from Ukraine to EU Member States. Today, exports of bird meat are an important export route for domestic agricultural production to the EU. In fact, this is the first product of animal origin that has come to European markets and since the first year of supply has demonstrated its conjunctural willingness to compete with the products of other importing countries. Ukraine now ranks third among the main importers of bird meat to the EU, giving in only Thailand and Brazil. According to the results of 2018, Ukraine exported more than 51,000 tons to the EU, representing 7.6 percent of the total imports of bird meat by the European Union. Of this amount, under the tariff quota, the bird’s meat and half - factory meat of the bird is imported free of charge only 17 thousand 600 tons. For the rest, Ukrainian exporters pay import duties, which are high enough in the EU. The agreement foresees an increase in the volume of duty-free exports of bird meat to EU Member States. The adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement will allow the full implementation of the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement and will be the first step in initiating consultations on the review of the provisions of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU, which plans to establish the Government of Ukraine as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, please accept the draft law as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, I take it you can do without discussion? Yeah? Yeah. My lady, a minute of motive. Two factions insist on "European solidarity" and. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, you can come out of the faction. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, respectable colleagues: two-for-two-against factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Sorry, Ivanno Orestovno, don't be so nervous. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u145	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! First of all, I want to take this opportunity to welcome us all to Volunteer Day. We feel very well with you and understand how serious it has been during all these years that volunteers have contributed to the country's survival and continued to stand up to the opposition to Russian aggression. It's about the bill. The draft Law approves the completion of the internal State procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on the modification of trade preferences for bird meat and processed bird meat. Importantly, the provisions of this Agreement provide for amendments to the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union to increase by 50,000 tonnes the annual quota for duty-free imports of meat from birds from Ukraine to Member States. This amendment allows us to actually open up the possibility of initiating a review consultation for our benefit, to our interest in our interests in the Association Agreement with Ukraine and the EU in relation to other goods before the conclusion of the five-year period foreseen by the Association Agreement. The Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union yesterday at its meeting considered this text of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole with the subsequent introduction of technical legal rights. This decision by the Committee is explained by the fact that, in preparing the printed text of the international treaty, errors were made in the official languages of the European Union and in the Ukrainian language in the Ukrainian version of the international treaty. I would like to point out that mistakes are of a purely technical nature and do not narrow down the volume for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u146	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u147	Following the ratification of the Treaty by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Government will initiate a procedure for amending the text of the Agreement on the basis of article 79, for correcting errors in the text or in certified copies of the Vienna Convention treaties.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u148	Two factions insisted on the performance. Why don't we just give two factions right now and move on? Fatherland is Yvchenko. Yvchenko and Klimpush-Cincadze. Well, I just got off the phone with Joanna Orestes. One minute of motive, it'll be good if you do.? Yvchenka, come out, please. Okay. No, colleagues, then we sign up for factions: two for, two for, two against. If everyone wants to speak, because we've got it stopped somehow. Sign up: two in, two in, two in factions. Bragar Eugene Vadimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u149	I give the word to Paul Susch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u150	Susko Pavel Mikolaiovich. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u151	Good afternoon, dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I'd like to draw your attention to the most important problem we have today. In 2014, the previous authorities quickly signed the Association Agreement in part. This is the area of free trade with the EU. We've got 36 discriminatory quotas for agricultural exports, low-priced quotas that have criticised completely all producers and exporters, because there has been no expansion of the European consumer market. Moreover, this free trade zone has protected European markets from the entry of domestic goods into the European market. Certainly, the issue of the supply of bird meat seems to be a lobbyist issue of a separate business and economic group in Ukraine, but we will vote in favour of this bill, and I will explain why. Because we're for viewing the Free Trade Zone and the Association Agreement as a whole. We are for Ukraine not to have any restrictions on entry into the European consumer market, so that we do not have these discriminatory and even anti-national quotas for exports of our products. And we insist that the government not only do things that support the meat of birds, but do real industrial production to make sure that we have a high-tech product of the 5th to 6th technological system. We had the opportunity to export it to the European market. We understand perfectly that in the context of Ukraine's fierce global competitive struggle as a technological country, no one is comfortable with it. But we insist and pay attention to the government that we should not be a raw material and export bird meat, but rather export technology to the European consumer market and leave the added value here, inside the country. And then, of course, Ukraine will be a successful, economic, technological country, not a raw substitute within this free trade zone. And in closing, I also want to point out that we need to keep moving to the next stages.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u152	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u153	After the free trade zone comes the Customs Union, the Economic Union, and so on. So we are today at the lowest, fifth, stage of international economic integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u154	Alona Ivanovna's starch. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u155	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, the signing of the Association Agreement has, of course, placed in a very unfavourable position especially our exporters who are ready to conquer international markets. Enough small quotas for any product, including the bird. And it's important for us not only to fill the budget, because these measures will allow us to increase our export capacity, it will also allow us to reverse those schemes that our exporters are developing. You see, don't they open up the same businesses in Slovakia, Romania? It's already a European producer who actually manufactures goods under our brand, and they sell them peacefully in the European Union. They need to create conditions for them to create these businesses, to store them in Ukraine, and for this government to work better with our partners and to open up not just the bird -- to open up China's market in pork, carcases, to work with sub-products, to work with our opportunities in those countries that can pay our organics in honey. We have many export positions to go out with. Finally, one vertical holding company has 27 meat processing companies, 17 of which are closed. Closed, zoomed in. Because there is no easy way to dispose of this meat in other countries. So, colleagues, let's work. It's budget filling, it's support, and it's definitely going to increase our income in our Ukrainian budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u156	Thank you. Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u157	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! First of all, I want to pay attention to the colleagues who were just there talking about someone signing the Association Agreement in a hurry. These association negotiations, all agreed quotas, were concluded during Janukovich’s reign. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to say that it was the efforts of the previous government that were carried out, the previous authority that you do not respect, that we conducted these negotiations and that it was agreed to increase quotas for Ukraine for export, from Ukraine for the export of bird meat. Why is this important? Because so far we've been exporting over quotas and we're the third largest importer. The European Union sees Ukraine as the third largest importer of this product, so it was important for us to increase these duty-free quotas. So I hope you will support all of this, the ratification of this agreement. And also, Mr. Head, I would like to address you. I don't understand your biased attitude toward me or our faction, because you deny me a word. When I insisted on the committee yesterday, I was guided by article 30 of the Rules, which provides for a failure to take into account the conclusion of our committee. I hope that you will follow this rule in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u158	Thank you, Ivana Orestovna. I apologized because I didn't see what you were. It is a pleasure to talk to a person when he is turned away from you. But you were. (Excuse me, maybe I'll finish? Thank you. If we're talking about prejudice. I didn't see you as a co-reporter. I apologized. Second of all, we'll have every committee to take advantage of. The reduced procedure is two-for-two-against factions. Thank you. Thank you. Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters between Ukraine and the European Union on the amendment of trade preferences for bird meat and processed bird meat provided for in the Agreement on the Association between Ukraine, of the one part, and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their member States, of the other part (registration number 0009). Please support and vote. [[13:45:21]] For 338 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft of the Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (the project "Extension of the Kharkiv Metropolitan" (the project "Extension of the Third Line of the Metropolitan Line in Kharkiv") between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (registration number 0008). It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:46:03]] For 261 Decision taken. The report is given by Skurak's Deputy Minister, Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u159	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Your attention is given to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. The agreement proposes to involve funding from the European Investment Bank of 160 million euros. The financial terms of the loan from the EIB are as follows. The interest rate is proposed in the size of Euribor plus the spread, which is about 1 percent, depending on the date of the samples and the credit costs. The total repayment period is 25 years, including a four - year period. The first date of repayment of the loan will be April 20, 22. The borrower of financial resources at the European Investment Bank will be Ukraine in a person of the Ministry of Finance, who will in turn re-credit the credits paid to the public utility "Harkovi Metropoliten". The project is also co-financed by credit funds received from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the amount of 160 million euros and funds from the local budget of the city of Harkov of 10 million euros. The aim of the project is to improve transportation services for the population of Kharkiv, to increase the drinking weight of passenger transport by the metropolis by extending the operation of the third Alexivian metroliner line by 470 meters [3 km], resulting in a total line length of 14 km [450 m]. The components of the investment project are as follows. Construction of the third line of the Kharkiv metropolis from Metro Building Station to Odeska Station, construction of the "Alexievsky" power station with a connecting branch to the third line of the Kharkiv metropolis and the acquisition of a moving convoy of 70 wagons. According to article 16 of the Budget. The loan will be paid off at the expense of the funds foreseen in the state budget, which will be returned, including from the Kharkiv metropolis. In particular, the 19th Year State Budget Act provides for funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u160	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u161	And Ukraine's 20th-year law envisions funding for the project in question at 408 million dollars. Ratification by the Supreme Council of the draft law will provide the legal basis for the use of loan funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u162	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, Homenko Oleni Viktorovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u163	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, at its meeting on 27 November 2019, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the ratification of the Financial Agreement (the project "Extension of the Kharkiv Metropoliten" (the project "Extension of the Third Line of the City of Kharkiv) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank) and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted on a basis and as a whole. The adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a draft Ukrainian law will provide legal basis for the use of the European Investment Bank's loan to implement the project. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the treaty can be ratified. So, honourable colleagues, please support the decision of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation and adopt the Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u164	Thank you. Needed Discussion? Please register: two in, two in, two in, two in factions. Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u165	Samantha Bobrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u166	Who, again? Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u167	In general, the Voice faction is in pain for the construction and construction of the line of the Kharkiv metropolis. But we also want to notice. (Dear colleague, may I ask you to step aside?) Further, please, when making agreements, please do not avoid the role of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the official translation of any agreements that apply. which are bilateral and so on and so forth, so that the texts will then have neither stylistic nor any other errors in the text, and then, as colleagues say, more than 15 months may be a problem with what's happening in the text itself. Therefore, please do not avoid a chain of official translation, and we must have it, do not ignore it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u168	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u169	Please give the word to Mr. Kubi, the national deputy of Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u170	No, I don't. Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u171	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the issue of ratification and trust in the state of long-term resources is the confirmation and possibility of investment expansion, job creation and confidence in the state. First: the funds must be used effectively. The second is the construction of infrastructure, which is the creation of jobs. And the third important position is to expand markets and opportunities. Ukraine market and additional investment possibilities. Our faction will support the ratification of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u172	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u173	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Opposition Platform for Life will support this draft Law on Financing and generally involve the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the implementation of the project from the creation of new infrastructure. And that's very important because it was the right thing to say in the hall is that it's also a new job, it's also an investment attraction all over the city. And in general, Kharkiv is the region that needs really new infrastructure projects. And I'd like to respond again, and here I was mentioned by the previous speaker, about the effectiveness of the free trade zone, who was preparing and so on. So I would like to advise regional economic integration experts to explain to the former fifth president that the area of free trade with the European Union does not provide for free movement of goods or capital or services or labour. These are the next stages of international economic integration. Explain this to the guarantor and don't make it look funny in the international arena about the free movement of people, goods and labor. We wouldn't be looking at those ridiculous quotas with you if we had free movement of goods or services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u174	Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u175	Please pass the word to Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u176	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u177	Thank you, Your Honor. Of course, our parliamentary group "For the Future" will support this bill. An extremely important issue for the city of Kharkiv is the construction of the metropolis, the third branch. And this is the question of when the entire hall is to be united. Not so often, Ukraine signs such agreements, not so often do Ukraine allocate funding to local regional projects that are of great importance to the inhabitants of the region. For the people of Kharkiv, this is an extremely important project. Building a metropolis for the last seven years is one of the highest priorities of the local government. And the people of the city of Kharkiv see how much has been done, including by our team, in order for these processes to take place there, so that the metropolis can be built. See how many stations are being opened up, how much local authorities are paying attention. And this agreement is a testimony to the fact that the authorities work in places, they sign agreements. Difficult negotiation processes are very difficult to break. And there will be a sin if the Supreme Council does not support such initiatives by the local authorities, the mayor of the city. And the construction of the metropolis is about to take place. That is why we support one another. And we urge the Hall to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u178	Thank you, Victor Vasilovich. Motives: Susko Pavlov Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u179	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I want to emphasize that the project envisions the construction of a new area of the third line of the subway with two stations: "Drežinska" and "Odeska", and an electrodepo with a capacity of 100 wagons with a connecting branch to the third line of the subway. This will triple the travel time from the city center to the southern sleeping areas. In addition, it is planned to acquire a new mobile warehouse. The project will unload the land of transport infrastructure that will improve the environmental situation in the city. By and large, the project is important not only for the Kharkivs, who will receive new stations, but also for Ukrainian companies, they will receive orders to create new jobs. Please support this bill. It's important to Kharkiv and to Ukraine, in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u180	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich is motivated.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u181	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Of course, our team supports this bill. When you drive through the city of Kharkiv and you see roads and infrastructure being rebuilt, it's a pearl that's practically Ukraine today, and it's a city that can be set as an example to all the cities of our country. But when you come to the Luhansk district, I would like to address the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Infrastructure, the Minister of Transport, to pay attention to the area where the war is going. Today, we live as if at a stone age, there is no transportation even for children in school. From a village to a village of nine kilometers [9 km], children roam the snow and freeze under the open sky. Therefore, immediate attention should be paid and funding should be given to the Lugansk region, transporting at least for children. And retirees today who throw money out of the routes are also cutting three skins off of a pensioner who worked 50 years for our country by ripping his hands off the blood, and today they throw his grandmother out of those routes or trolleybuses. That's why we have to do more social transportation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now Krulko Ivan Ivanovich with motive. And we're going to vote for the law, for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u183	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, this bill will have to be voted on. This is a loan that Ukraine will take to build a subway in the city of Kharkiv. It's important to build a subway. But, dear colleagues, perhaps we should still adopt laws that must run the Ukrainian economy so that we don't have to take the debt to have the infrastructure projects costed here in Ukraine? What does it take? To do this, we need to stop destroying the natural persons of entrepreneurs, so we need to develop farming rather than selling the Ukrainian land, and we need to have real negotiations with international creditors to restructure the debt and release the 400 billion dollars that are in the government budget that will be spent next year to cover all of these expenses. So in fact, there are possibilities for building infrastructure projects on their own in Ukraine. But at the same time, let's, let's see, honourable colleagues, what do we have in the current budget? And in the current budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u184	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u185	And in the current budget, unfortunately, the funds for the State Regional Development Fund have been cut down, building schools, gardens, and other infrastructure projects on the ground. In this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u186	Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, I continue this meeting for 15 minutes, pending consideration of this matter. I thought it was a minute or two, but we have to do it. Dear colleagues, let's move to voting for the bill. I bet a vote for the adoption of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement as a whole ( The project "Extension of Kharkiv Metropoliten" (the project "Extension of the 3rd line of the metropolis in Kharkiv) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (registration number 0008). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:00:19]] For 337 337-yes. Thank you, Your Honor. Decision taken. Two announcements, and then there'll be a break. First. If. I won't mention not to be accused of prejudice, but if you're not sure about something, you take the Rules and look. The summary procedure does not provide for statements by a committee whose decisions have not been taken into account. And we followed a reduced procedure. That's the first one. And the second. I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u187	Dear colleagues! Also, on behalf of the Supreme Council, let us welcome all volunteers today to the Day of Volunteers, which is celebrated worldwide. [[Applause]] We thank you because it is thanks to you that you have succeeded in maintaining Ukraine's independence and resisting aggression in the East. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The evening will begin at 4:00, please don't be late. Thank you.
