ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law establishing a National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories (No. 1393, 1662, 1623, 1621) and on the proposal for an organic law, adopted by the Senate, on the appointment of the Director General of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories (No. 1394, 1622, 1620). The Conference of Presidents decided that these texts would give rise to a common general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the joint general discussion. Mr Jean-Claude Leclabart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u3	France has built itself on territories that everyone has shaped our country. They are varied, as are their problems. It is therefore essential that the State and its operators modernise their interventions and adapt their tools to the new needs of elected officials and citizens. The bill we are considering today is the pragmatic response formulated by representatives of elected representatives to simplify the landscape of state operators working for the territories. It has given rise to lively discussions in committee, which have enabled the text to evolve. Elected from a rural department – my constituency has 231 communes – I am well aware that many territorial projects do not succeed despite the commitment and dedication of the elected officials who support them. They often face difficulties in achieving them, particularly in smaller communities and fragile territories. We can no longer continue to maintain this mistrust. In view of the experience transmitted from the ground, it was therefore considered necessary to establish a National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, the ANCT, whose role will be to enable the State to act in partnership with the territories in order to help them develop their projects. Through this agency, the State will be able to assume its strategic leadership role and give new impetus to policies vital to our territories. Simplification at the service of local elected representatives: this is the meaning of the agency we want to create. In terms of how it works, the project promoters will ask the prefect of the department, who, like a good entrepreneur, will put the actors concerned around the table to define the needs, especially in engineering. The review of projects will therefore be decentralized and their appraisal devolved. The agency will have to do hand-sewn from local wills and needs. This will move from a prescriptive State to an accompanying and facilitating State. The aim is not to create a heavy administration but a single window federating and coordinating existing agencies and services: CGET – Office of the General Commissioner for Equality of Territories –, Digital Agency and EPARECA – National public institution for the development and restructuring of commercial and artisanal spaces. The agency will thus unite the energies and skills available by placing the actors of the territory at the heart of the scheme. During the examination of the text in the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, 414 amendments were tabled, 81 of which were adopted. They have made it possible to clarify and strengthen the tasks of the Agency, to restore the majority of the State to the Board of Directors, to introduce territorial cohesion contracts and to clarify the functioning of the Territorial Cohesion Committee. This has led to many advances: the priority targets of the Agency's actions have been extended, including innovative projects and several types of territories characterized by geographical constraints, social difficulties, etc. In addition, in a context of under-consumption of European funds, it is now envisaged that the Agency will assist project promoters in their applications for grants under these funds. In order to facilitate the sponsorship of competences, the Agency will promote cooperation between the territories and the reciprocal provision of powers between local and regional authorities or between groups. The Agency will ensure the deconcentrated implementation of State policy by means of territorial cohesion contracts detailing the actions necessary to carry out the project, the forecast schedule and the resources committed. In order to avoid decisions taken in silo which may lead in particular to the closure of public services, it will also carry out a monitoring and warning mission and will study the territorial impact of decisions taken by both public and private operators. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] It is very concrete that the territories need; They want operational, coherent public policies as well as means to undertake, develop and innovate. The Agency will therefore ensure that the territorial dimension is fully taken into account in the development of public policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u4	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u5	We see the blues of local elected representatives growing in our territories. We hear mayors regret the lack of listening and support from the state. In this worrying context, the principle of the creation of a National Agency for Territorial Cohesion is a good idea. Madam Minister, if we know the strength of your personal commitment to local communities, the same cannot be said of the President of the Republic, who behaves a bit like a firefighter in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u6	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u7	Since the beginning of the yellow vest movement, Mr. Macron seems to discover or rediscover the virtues of intermediate bodies, in particular local authorities, elected representatives and mayors, to whom he asks a great deal. But this cannot make us forget the calamitous beginning of this quinquennium: let us recall the boycott of the conference of territories by the main associations of elected officials; the removal of the housing tax...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u8	What a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u9	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] ...and the spectre of local tax reform leaving local elected officials in the dark; contracts for the control of operating expenses, whereby the State imposes on large local authorities what it is not capable of doing itself; arbitrary closures of public services in all rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u10	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u11	The general review of public policies has done its job!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u12	In this context, the initiative to create this national agency comes a little late! Madam Minister, you know that our communes are suffering: you know better than anyone else, you who have been mayor and vice-president of the Association of Mayors of France. The elected representatives are above all voluntary people. In rural departments, in particular, there is no shortage of needs: digital coverage, transport, commerce, crafts, access to care. If the new agency does not significantly improve things in these areas, in all the territories, and does not succeed in revitalizing our campaigns, then it will have failed. However, ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide from you that we are concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u13	There's no reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u14	If we did not wish to refer the text back to committee, it is in order to be able to discuss the substance of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u15	And be heard!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u16	Indeed, in the present state, the future agency seems to us to be fuzzy and inconclusive. With regard to its tasks, first of all: Article 2 is an inventory at the Prévert of themes on which it can intervene, without real wire conductor. The text is also vague and inconclusive with regard to its financing: the bill does not say anything about how the agency will be financed, except that it will be the result of the aggregation of three other agencies. But it would be inconceivable to re-allocate credits currently allocated to communities or, worse still, to create a new tax! The text is vague and inconclusive at last on the governance of the agency: if it will be symbolically presided over by a local elected official – this is a positive point – the state will be the majority on the board of directors. We will therefore result in the usual juxtaposition of senior officials from different ministries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u17	That's the risk!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u18	Some are good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u19	To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, I fear that we will move towards an umpteenth public institution in addition to all the others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u20	What a defiance!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u21	It will have to conclude multi-annual agreements with ANRU – National Agency for Urban Renewal –, ANAH – National Housing Agency – and ADEME – Environmental and Energy Management Agency. In this context, this is likely to lead to a great legal complexity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u22	We'll have to be careful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u23	If the President of the Republic had wanted a great girondin momentum, he would have relied on the engineering agencies of the departmental councils. All over the territory, these allow to combine local intelligence, the perfect knowledge of the terrain and the commitment of municipalities and intercommunalities. Would not the true audacity have been to make available to them the deconcentrated administrative services of the State? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Without doubting the good will of the Government, we are therefore sceptical of the proposed path towards a goal that is unanimously shared. I hope that the debate will lead to a number of convergences. For this reason, we have decided to be positive. We have tabled a number of amendments in committee; Unfortunately, not all of them were retained, as we would have liked. We hope that we will be able to work at the next sittings in the interests of rural areas and the territories of France. To that end, we need efficiency and pragmatism, and that local authorities and the state work together to serve our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u24	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u25	The creation of the National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories pursues a salutary ambition: to promote the development of territories by starting from local realities and giving priority to the most fragile. This is the specific objective that we wish to achieve with this bill, to which the MODEM and related group fully supports. You know the extreme diversity of our territories, whether urban, peri-urban or rural: the realities they live in and therefore the solutions to their problems diverge widely. It therefore seems inconceivable to define, from Paris, the projects or scope of action of local authorities. The MODEM and related group sees the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories as a facilitator, promoting an ascending and virtuous logic; In short, an example of deconcentration of government support to communities, responding to a need on the ground. It is therefore necessary that the text to be adopted by Parliament should be as flexible and pragmatic as possible. I had started my remarks in committee with a small word of self-satisfaction designed to welcome the important work carried out before our debates, whether it be the work of our rapporteurs or those of the delegation to local and regional authorities, the study group on rural issues or of all the parliamentary groups. It was without knowing the outcome of our debates in committee! All the provisions adopted during the parliamentary shuttle tend to multiply the levels and themes addressed and to make the organisation of the future operator more complex, at the risk of reducing its effectiveness. We wish, for our part, to return to the initial proposal made by the President of the Republic two years ago in the Senate in the framework of the National Conference of Territories: to create an agency at the service of the territories, whose vocation would be to work in direct connection with them, in an ascending logic, so that the territorial authorities are associated upstream with any decision concerning them, and thus to disappear the feeling of abandonment experienced by certain territories. However, as drafted, the proposed law tends to impose certain subjects that have been identified as priorities since Paris, while expectations are different from one place to another. It is up to us, as members of national representation, to break with this uniformity, which amounts to treating the territories that are not necessarily affected by the same problems in the same way. The aim is to establish the basis for a territorial differentiation that would meet the needs of the land and land. Our territories face multiple emergencies: the territorial divide, the digital divide, the medical divide and the shortage of housing. But these emergencies aren't the same everywhere. In detailing some and leaving others aside, as the bill does, is not likely to meet the need for deconcentration of the state. Our rural, peri-urban and urban territories require a rebalancing, not to break the dynamics of the cities but to ensure that this dynamic benefits everyone, the aim being that all the territories of the Republic have the same chance to succeed. I am thinking in particular of the need to move from an economy concentrated in the cities to a re-registration in the economic exchanges of all our territories, especially rural ones, through projects of circular, green, social and solidarity economy, formidable vectors of territorial development and creation of wealth for all. It is up to us, parliamentarians, to legislate for our territories with the ability to erase us in order to respect the freedom of local public action. There is respect for local democratic debates: political colours differ from one territory to another, and attempts should not be made to control what belongs to local democracy from the capital. Let local elected representatives be given the opportunity to manage their projects without the imposition of views that are not adapted to their realities. For all these reasons, we will propose several amendments to delete or reinstate the original text in order to simplify the text and find the facilitator tool proposed by the President of the Republic – a tool, I remind you, requested by the associations of elected representatives, the AMF, the Association of Mayors of France, in the lead. There was a rapid consensus on what the Agency should not be. The ANCT will not be an extra thing, an extra layer, an umpteenth operator of the state. It will be a one-stop shop for local authorities, focusing in particular on the engineering offer available to them in order to contribute to the development of the territories. It will concentrate the missions and expertise of the existing operators in order, first, to facilitate the lives of the prefects and those who seize them, then to respond effectively to a real need. Thus, the future agency will bring together three of the structures that can be used for the benefit of local and regional authorities: the Digital Agency, the EPARECA and part of the CGET. The merger with other operators, which was too complex, was logically preferred a multi-year agreement system covering the related perimeters. In short, it is a facilitator tool in two specific parts, and first of all by its scope of action. The bill establishes a national territorial cohesion agency to meet the needs of territories that do not have sufficient in-house technical and financial capacity to mount and implement their projects. It will therefore, by definition, be a priority for small communities. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it may not be necessary to decline the whole list of the territories concerned, as the present Article 1 does. Indeed, as you have said many times, Madam Minister, during the committee review, all elected representatives and all communities, from mainland and overseas, will be able to speak to the ANCT, whether they are communes, intercommunalities, departments, regions and even territories that span different communities. The Agency will work towards those who wish to help. The elected representatives who already have resources will not be obliged to use them – I am thinking in particular of the departments with engineering agencies that carry out tasks similar to those of the ANCT. The original wording of the bill was therefore clear and the clarifications made since then tend to introduce confusion where local elected officials expect simplicity. It will also be a tool for facilitating the types of projects carried out. It is important not to prioritize the priorities on which it can intervene. Access to health care, housing, mobility, mobilization for the priority areas of city policy, the revitalization of city centres and towns, the ecological transition, digital technology are obviously priorities, I will not tell you the opposite! But they are as much as education, medical deserts or access to employment. It is necessary to allow the territories to take up problems which they consider to be priorities in order to give the agency full scope for action. Local elected officials are aware of the land; They don't need to be caught by the hand, let's show them a path. What they want is support, support from the state to carry out their projects. Ladies and gentlemen, our objective is simple: to facilitate the lives of local elected officials and to help them when they wish. Once a community has a project, it will be able to declare it and seek assistance from the future agency. It is not useful to specify where the agency will act since it will act everywhere; it is not useful to specify with whom she will act since she will act with all those who will ask for her help; It is not useful to specify on which subjects it will act since it will be up to the local elected representatives alone to define their needs. We have a great opportunity here to deconcentrate our public policies. This is a real demand from our fellow citizens, at a time when we are in a particularly difficult social and democratic situation. The committee and the Senate did the opposite, adding multiple clarifications and complexity, on the pretext that local elected officials would not understand the text – I am thinking in particular of the Territorial Cohesion Committee. The elected representatives are able to agree on projects without the law having to compel them to do so through the creation of what would only be an additional stratum. Let us give them the opportunity to appropriate this agency and adapt it to their needs, while respecting a principle of territorial differentiation to which we are very attached. So here is the position of the MODEM and related group on this bill that we were waiting for and calling for in order to prove to the territories that we have heard their request: that of having a national agency for the cohesion of the territories adapted to local and territorial realities. Our role, ladies and gentlemen, is to create this tool to give local territories and elected representatives, in a deeply decentralizing spirit, freedom and means of action for their field administration; No more, no less. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Let's show that we have full confidence in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u26	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u27	Please excuse the absence of Marie-Noëlle Battistel, whom I am replacing tonight. Finally, we are debating, with a little delay on the initial timetable, the proposal for a law establishing a national cohesion agency for the territories. The peculiarity of your text, Madam Minister – I say "your" because we all know its origins – is to refer to the Rules of Procedure the essence of its provisions. From this point of view, the debate in the committee was very useful in clarifying the intentions of the Government and the concrete modalities of the functioning of the agency. Not all answers have been provided, but we now have a clearer view of them. This clarity, Madam Minister, leaves us puzzled. The more we understand your goal, or even adhere to it, the more we wonder about the usefulness of creating an ad hoc agency. We do not dispute the advantages, in terms of simplification, of the creation of a single window allowing the coordination of existing operators; But why create a new entity? Why not do the same thing but under the aegis of the current CGET, which could then be usefully renamed? Why not re-create the DATAR, the interdepartmental delegation to spatial planning and regional attractiveness, many of whom on all these banks and in the territories regret the disappearance in its historic form? Beyond its nature, the missions and means of the future agency have focused the expectations of parliamentarians and local elected officials. For 18 months, the Government and the majority have regularly responded to many of our proposals and amendments by referring to the debate on the creation of this territorial cohesion agency, for example when we asked about the abolition of FISAC, the intervention fund for services, crafts and commerce, by the 2019 Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u28	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u29	The expectation is such that all types of territories have naturally wished to be recognised as priority areas of intervention by the Agency. Many amendments have thus been tabled in committee, making our debates sometimes complex to the detriment of their legibility. We believe that the definition adopted in committee which includes the rural, island, mountain, ultramarine and political territories of the city is more likely to satisfy the aspirations of the vast majority of our colleagues. However, this list suffers from a blind spot. Despite the multiplicity of support and support programmes implemented by the State or its operators, there are still territories which do not fall under any programme, contract, national agency or priority zoning. These territories, most often rural or peri-urban, are neglected by the public authorities and marked by the territorial divide. If the Territorial Cohesion Agency simply works in the usual intervention territories, which it can continue to help, it will largely miss its target. We will therefore propose an amendment to remedy this. As regards the Agency's tasks, again the examination in committee led to a high inflation of Article 2, which, in its current wording, establishes a quasi-clause of general competence for the benefit of the ANCT. We will not propose to increase this list, but we will be careful to clarify these missions and their scope. We will propose, for example, in the spirit of the suggestion made by senators and in line with the mobility guidance bill, that the Agency's mission be to assist in the implementation of national mobility guidelines. With regard to the governance of the Agency, we will ensure, as in committee, that the territories identified as priorities are well represented in their diversity. There is, on the other hand, one area that remains in a worrying blur: that of the means available to the ANCT. Our debates in committee did not bring any new elements on this point, except for the quasi-certainty that it would operate with constant budget envelopes, which would deprive it of much of its interest. If the ANC does not benefit from new means, then this reform is only an administrative reorganization. We will be very vigilant, Madam Minister, about the means that will be allocated to the Agency in the FLP for 2020 and invite you to present these in such a way as to allow comparisons over time and at constant scope. I draw your attention to the mission of supporting projects to maintain public services in the territories. Our fellow citizens have been expressing their despair at the departure of public services from the state for several weeks in the context of the great national debate. In the same year, some communes saw their treasury, gendarmerie, post office and school disappear. It is also that which breaks the cohesion of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u30	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u31	The Agency's support for public service maintenance projects is necessary, but the State must first stop the haemorrhage of its own deconcentrated administrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u32	It's common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u33	In fact, the current dynamic has something Kafkaian: the state withdraws from certain territories, forcing communities to try to maintain the public services it no longer provides, while imposing the expenses of these communities, under contracts to control local public expenditure. That is why we will propose an amendment on this particular issue of master's contracts. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] In conclusion, Madam Minister, if we doubt the interest of creating an ad hoc agency, we approve of the establishment of a single window in the territories and welcome the simplification and coordination of the actors involved in this reform. We will ensure that no territory is forgotten and that the resources are commensurate with the stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u34	Mrs Hélène Zannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u35	For almost two years, many measures had been taken in favour of communities, demonstrating the strong commitment of the Government and parliamentarians to the development of the territories, including the most fragile. Thus, the allocations of the smallest municipalities and intercommunalities have finally been stabilised and even increased by 180 million euros for the allocation of rural solidarity – DSR – and the allocation of urban solidarity and social cohesion – DSU.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u36	This will not compensate for the loss of the housing tax!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u37	Investment subsidies have been maintained at a historically high level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u38	You're the only one who can believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u39	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The ANRU budget has been doubled. In addition, the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as NOTRe, has been relaxed, for example for the implementation of the management of aquatic environments and the prevention of floods – GEMAPI – or for water and sanitation skills. Government programs complement territorial assistance, such as territorial revitalization operations, energy transition contracts or core city actions, to name but a few. The creation of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories is in addition to the existing arrangements, always to the benefit of the development of the territories. Announced by the President of the Republic in July 2017, subject to several legislative proposals, it responds to a request from local and regional authorities that the landscape of state operators operating in favour of the territories be simplified. The desire to create the ANC was in fact born from a finding that local elected officials often encounter difficulties when they wish to conduct a large-scale project because they do not have adequate technical and financial capacity in-house. In addition, there is a lack of legibility with regard to State operators present on their territory. When local authorities seek the advice and support of the State, they are often obliged to go around the services, which do not always operate in a coordinated manner. The answer to all these difficulties is the creation of a one-stop shop to which elected officials can turn. The National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories will thus be created by the merger of three public services and establishments of the State: the Office for Equality of the Territories, the national public institution for the development and restructuring of commercial and artisanal spaces and the digital agency. The aim is to pool expertise and better coordinate the actions of these entities. We will ensure that the new agency does not add to the existing millefeuille. Its operation must be simple and its direct access. To this end, agreements will also be signed with other public institutions working for the development of the territory, the well-known ANRU, CEREMA – centre of studies and expertise on risks, the environment, mobility and planning –, ANAH and ADEME. The Agency will be responsible for the implementation of national territorialised programmes, such as the "City-City Action" programme. However, as a new development, its support for local communities is reaffirmed. The local elected representatives will also be represented on its board of directors, which will be chaired by a local elected representative. The prefect of department will be the territorial delegate of the agency. In concrete terms, the chosen project promoter will be able to turn to his prefect of department...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u40	Mobilizing FISAC credits?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u41	... or, most often, to his sub-prefect of borough. The prefect will then be able to mobilise the services likely to be affected by the project. Of course, the Agency is not intended to replace existing resources but rather to coordinate and pool them. This will enable the Agency not only to provide technical support by providing advice and methods of intervention, but also to advise in terms of financial strategy, since it will be able to better coordinate and federate the resources of the various stakeholders. Nevertheless, it is absolutely not intended to replace the public or private offers existing on the territory in the field of project engineering – I really insist on this point, because I have often heard this fear express itself. ANCT's technical and financial support will complement both the support that local authorities can provide themselves and that of private actors. Moreover, the ANCT will, like any operator, be subject to trade law if there is a call for tenders. It will be up to the elected representatives, and the elected representatives alone, who know their territory, to ask for their intervention in the conduct of their projects, according to their needs. There is no imperative. As we have always said, it is the local elected representatives who decide. It is therefore a highly anticipated project entirely devoted to supporting the territories that we are going to defend here. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Administrative simplification, flexibility of operation and the use of community projects are the mainstays of this project designed to facilitate the initiatives of local elected representatives and to promote their autonomy, thus, the development of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u42	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u43	For years, the territorial divide has increased between large cities and, as we know, our rural territories, which are fragile and feel abandoned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u44	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u45	Recently, many of us have deplored and, above all, condemned the abolition of FISAC, which deprives many operators of aid in services, crafts and commerce, which helped to support economic life in the city centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u46	The FISAC!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u47	Over the years, the increasing complexity of the procedures and the stacking of standards have left small municipalities unable to cope with technical and legal skills. This is what rural life is all about! However, as you know, Madam Minister, ruralism is with all its specificities an asset and a wealth for France. Every effort must be made to preserve and develop it. In this regard, the creation of a national territorial cohesion agency, which integrates EPARECA, the Digital Agency and the CGET, could go in the right direction, provided that the following points are included. First of all, it is imperative to ensure that the operating procedures of this agency do not transform it into a gas plant that would make it ineffective, in addition to decredivising it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u48	Long live methanization...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u49	It must not be greedy about operating credits. Indeed, it is not by creating an additional public institution – financed by a new tax – that we will manage a national plan decided from Paris that we will effectively address the territorial divides. It is legitimate to question what the real added value of this agency will be, when actors and arrangements already exist and, above all, they should be better operated in a constrained budgetary context. It will therefore be necessary to pay close attention to its operating budget. Secondly, the tasks of this new agency must be pragmatic and correspond to what is truly necessary for the development of rural areas. This agency should not be centered on Paris but anchored in rural areas. As state services gradually disappear from our countryside, which contributes to desertification, it is vital to restore quality community services that will keep our villages alive and contribute tomorrow to their dynamism. Indeed, how do you want families to repopulate our villages if each of their steps has to turn into a way of the cross? Thirdly, this agency must be close to the local and regional authorities, listening to them and serving them. To do so, local elected officials must participate effectively and strongly in its governance. Who, better than the elected representatives, knows the specificities of each territory and the constraints that it faces on a daily basis? Have confidence in our mayors, have confidence in our elected officials and rely on them to reduce the territorial divide! Fourthly, the Agency will have to respond in particular to the specific needs of rural areas, in particular two of them, decisive: the modernisation of road and rail infrastructure and, above all, optimal digital coverage. It is through their development that new families will be encouraged, new businesses, artisans and the development of new businesses. Among its priority tasks, the Agency will also have to accompany the necessary improvement of access to care, which continues to decline. It will have to be equipped with the skills necessary to fully assume its role as coordinator between the State and local and regional authorities and thus contribute effectively to the strengthening of the attractiveness of our rural territories. In conclusion, we regret that the creation of this agency is part of a centralized and technocratic approach...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u50	With scripts!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u51	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] ... whereas we would prefer a decentralized and pragmatic approach, because it is with pragmatism and common sense that we can progress together. I urge you very sincerely to give the most welcome to the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party to this effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u52	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u53	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u54	Tonight, we are not only here to respond to the initiative taken by senators with this bill to create the National Cohesion Agency of the Territories – since it is a bill, we cannot benefit from the views of the Council of State. We are not only here because, on 17 July 2017, at the first national conference of the territories, the President of the Republic wanted this agency to be created, as he wanted a girondin pact whose effects we still expect. We are not only here because a prefiguration has been made – I welcome in this regard Serge Morvan's choice as Commissioner-General for Equality of the Territories, who, according to many of the elected representatives, had a good pedigree since he had been Director-General of the local authorities and had both local and national experience. I welcome the report 'France, territories, a commitment to territorial dynamics', although it took a little time before it could be made available. We are not only here because there are associations of elected representatives – I quote, at random, the Association des petits villes de France...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u55	At random, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u56	[[Smile]] Long live his president!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u57	... which, very early, well before the presidential election, in 2017, had wished in its programme that it would be possible to have an agency of this nature, the logic of the call for projects not producing the expected effects and the general commissariat for equality of territories being sometimes reduced to a kind of centre of expertise. We are here because of a phenomenon that is gaining our country, although it is not exclusively French, and that we could call unmastered metropolization. He is well known to geographers, such as Christophe Guilluy – Peripheral France –, demographers, such as Hervé Le Bras – with his famous "diagonal vacuum" – or, more recently, Salomé Berlioux with Les Invisibles de la République, where she evokes this youth of France who experience a strong feeling of decommissioning and abandonment. It is also found in novels. How can we not think of this beautiful book by Aurélien Bellanger, Land Planning, where he resurrects the DATAR, to which our colleague alluded earlier? How can we not think of Olivier Adam's book, Les Lisières, in which he evokes the famous subdivisions, at the heart of many phenomena today? How can we not think of La Carte et le territoire, by Michel Houellebecq? This peripheral France spreads over many parts of our territory and many French people experience it as such. This uncontrolled metropolization is characterized by the concentration on certain parts of the territory of the best jobs, the best training, the best companies, the best public services, the best means of locomotion. The others are characterized by the absence of all this. The challenge of this agency, it seems to me, is to respond to this phenomenon with strength and energy. Since we are here to discuss this text, allow me to make four quick remarks. The first concerns governance, which is essential. If we want this agency to be truly at the service of local authorities, it is necessary for them to benefit not from a trapontin but from a place of choice by ensuring that their representation is more balanced, in particular through the many associations of elected representatives that we have the chance to count in our country. A word about financing, because that is an essential point. If we do not want this agency to be a "machin", as some colleagues have said, we must give it the means of its ambitions. This is the opinion of the Council of State when it wishes the Agency to have sufficient resources to be able to carry out its tasks. As is often the case, I would not want the good intentions expressed here through plans or legislation to be caught up with Bercy's patrol and the ambitions to be reduced as a result of more intense concerns. Two remarks, before concluding. The first concerns the targeting of so-called fragile territories: it is essential because that is how we will target the territories which lack engineering and which are experiencing the difficulties that I have just described. In fact, Serge Morvan's report is illustrated with eloquent maps: white areas appear there, and it is for them that priority should be given to their attention. Finally, my last point concerns the issue of interterritorial cooperation, which is essential. We know that it is possible to conclude, as Toulouse and Brest did, reciprocal contracts between the city and the countryside. The law, the territorial agreements allow different territories to work together, but that is not enough and the agency will also have to be vigilant about it. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, in conclusion, I would say that the role of the agency seems essential to me. What's his ambition? Put the Republic everywhere. If it succeeds, believe me, it will not be a "machin", it will not be an all-risk agency but an agency at the service of the territories and the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u58	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u59	As an introduction to this intervention, I wish to give a testimony which may seem anecdotal to some, but which is ultimately very revealing of the state in which our territories are located. I recently received a person in my parliamentary office wishing to have his driving licence re-edited. It should normally have addressed the sub-prefecture, but as with grey cards, the only option now open to users in this case is to take the steps through an internet platform.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u60	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u61	In territories that, like mine, are strongly affected by the digital divide, you can imagine the difficulty that this presents for some inhabitants who, therefore, turn to the elected ones to help them. I could thus multiply the examples. This case alone illustrates the problem that we have to raise today. In many parts of France, territories are fragmented and often abandoned. The beautiful vision of spatial planning that has long inspired our public policies seems to have disappeared. And as with many other phenomena whose benefits are not perceived at the moment, it is now that we realize how much this vision is necessary, indispensable. In this context, the creation of a National Agency for Territorial Cohesion is welcomed. If this new agency is intended to operate throughout the French territory, it seems to us essential that it concentrates its action on the territories most in need of it. We can therefore only agree with the amendment, which seeks to make it clear that the priority areas are those with serious social difficulties. On the other hand, if this in fact amounts to taking into account only certain suburbs, we cannot validate such a course. These suburbs, pudically called "neighbourhoods", often become real areas of non-France, gangrenned by trafficking of all kinds and in which the forces of law and order and security can no longer go, are in fact far from being the only territories hit by social misery. Yet – do we have to call him back? – billions of euros have been invested in them for several decades without the slightest convincing result. At the same time, our rural communes were the great forgotten of public policies, and they continue to suffer the disappearance of many public services: closures of classes, post offices. In my department, medical deserts are spreading; Recently, services were closed at Bethune-Beuvry Hospital and the last general practitioner disappeared in a commune in my constituency. In the end, it is a real breach of equality in access to the public health service that is being created. This double standard is increasingly unbearable to our compatriots and surely explains much of the current crisis of confidence in our country. The rapporteur's use of the term "repair" in relation to local authorities demonstrates how the bond of trust between the state and the territories has gradually broken down, thus destroying the beautiful territorial grid that had made our nation strong. This agency must not be transformed into an umpteenth gadget intended to calm the legitimate anger of local elected officials, first among whom are the mayors, who are constantly dispossessed of their prerogatives, but who remain the first interlocutors of the inhabitants. On the other hand, it must be a tool for real simplification and better readability between the different agencies of the State. In reality, the multiplication of operators also increases the difficulties. Similarly, the ever-expanding perimeter of agglomerations has major disadvantages. In my constituency, the city of Béthune-Bruay has more than a hundred communes and more than 200,000 inhabitants. This poses real difficulties for local elected officials, first and foremost the mayors of the small communes, to be heard and to report effectively the problematic situations encountered by their officials. Because money remains the nerve of war, the principle of equality must also materialize in the endowments: one euro for cities, one euro for rural areas. There is an urgent need to find a true vision for the planning of our territory. Representatives of the people, be assured of our determination to ensure that no French are left behind. We will also be vigilant about the resources allocated to the Agency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u62	Mr Jean-François Cesarini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u63	This bill establishing the Territorial Cohesion Agency has nothing of a small law,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u64	It's not sure yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u65	... whether by its content or because of the moment of crisis in which it falls. Most of our country's problems and tensions come from territorial inequalities. The movement of the "yellow vests" did not, in fact, begin with the increase in fuel. But when they were told: "carpooling, electric charging stations, alternative to the individual car"; They said, "What are you talking about? » Tomorrow, whatever law we want to debate in this House, whether it concerns health, justice, or culture, half of the country may ask us: "What are you talking about? On all matters, indeed, there are two countries in one. And this is not the old divide between Paris and the province or between urbanity and rural areas. Today, the fracture separates the metropolises from the rest of the country. During the second part of the twentieth century, we saw a shift from national capitals to regional capitals. Today, we must launch another decentralization, take a new step, starting from these metropolises to irrigate the rest of the country. The problem is not only French. In the United States, Donald Trump's electorate is not in the metropolises of New York, San Francisco or Los Angeles. Similarly, the Brexit electorate is not in London. In Spain, Catalonia, which accounts for 25% of national GDP, no longer wants to pay for the poor territories, just like Lombardy or Veneto in Italy. The future agency must therefore be that of reversal, to think of another form of decentralization. This should not be based solely on administrative powers and State allocations, but should be a decentralization of projects. It is not the territories that will make the projects, but the projects that will be used to define new territories, which will be able to cross the current administrative boundaries: agglomerations, EPCIs could thus aggregate to develop territorial projects. And this will not be done simply with the elected representatives: the teams that will have to knock on the door of the Agency will also include entrepreneurs, teachers, training centres, citizens' associations. The horizontality of the teams of project promoters will thus come across, within the Agency, the verticality of the State. It is indeed the articulation between horizontality and verticality that will make the strength of tomorrow's decentralization. This agency will also have to allow the territories and the state to meet halfway, and not simply follow a logic of endowments. A project is not just public money. When you build a theatre, you don't necessarily have a cultural policy. When you build a tramway, you don't necessarily have an urban travel plan. It is not the organ that performs the function, it is the function that will make the organ. The project must be the cause that will lead to the construction of infrastructure, not the other way around. It is this reversal that the agency must be able to achieve, and that is why it is so important to us. Of course, I will be told that there are poor people in the metropolises, and that the metropolises also suffer. Let us say it differently, by trying a somewhat daring parallel: in this Chamber, the distinction between the right and the left has given way to a distinction between progressives and conservatives, which goes far beyond the majority group. In these two groups, there are members from the left and the right. The same is true in the territories, in the metropolises and outside the metropolises: there are poor and rich people. But the feeling is not the same as whether you live in a metropolis or not. Metropolises are a magnificent invention of the 20th century; They have allowed the concentration of wealth and the creation of jobs: today, 80% of wealth is produced there. But a new century has begun, bringing with it a new industrial revolution, that of digital technology, which allows economic deconcentration. The first industrial revolution, that of the 19th century, led to the concentration of human beings in the same place and at the same time to produce better. Today, it is possible to produce at different places and times. Large digital companies, particularly in Silicon Valley, have their head offices in cities with fewer people than these companies have employees. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Let us work together, debate, amend, but let us not miss the creation of this agency, because if we fail to achieve the cohesion of the territories, we will fail to achieve that of the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u66	The general discussion is closed. The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u67	We all make the same observation: a territorial divide has developed over the years, which comes from far away. Its reduction is a subject that we must take to arms-the-body. That is why we want to create an effective tool to serve the territories. Mr Bricout, I understand your wish, shared by many of you, that the ANCT should include more operators. We have considered this, and in view of the needs of the territories, we have preferred to bring together the conditions for a rapid start of the agency rather than to confine ourselves, from the outset, to long organic debates. As you have rightly said, greater cooperation between all these operators is essential, and this is the objective of the proposed law; We want to create a "assembler" in the service of the territories. I confirm our hope that the agency will first turn to the most abandoned territories – Mr Bouillon spoke of "white areas". But we didn't want to exclude anyone. In committee, I cited the collapse of a bridge in Genoa, Italy, as an example of an exceptional event justifying the agency's intervention with a metropolis. I'm touching wood so that such an accident doesn't happen in France, but if that were the case, we might need specialized state services. It is clear that the action of the ANC will not be directed as a matter of priority to the major cities, but we did not want to prohibit this possibility if the situation so warrants. Ms. Obono spoke of austerity policy; I would remind you, however, that EUR 2 billion of investment funds are earmarked to finance territorial projects. She also spoke at length about CEREMA, an organization I know well – I also presented the ANCT project at its Bron site. The staff of the centre – high-quality agents – are satisfied with the creation of the agency, because it is well aware, since we signed a convention together under the programme "City Action", which the opening to the territories offers CEREMA prospects for development. At a minimum, it would allow it to retain its status. Currently, only 25 per cent of its work is carried out for local and regional authorities; There is therefore an important margin of progress. CEREMA brings together outstanding skills in hydraulics, roads, works of art, and its director obviously follows very closely the construction of the ANCT. Mr Wulfranc, you share, and I thank you, the idea that such an agency would be useful if it proved effective. I will endeavour to provide you, throughout the debate, with the clarification you want. As you know, I have always worked closely with the territorial elected representatives. You can count on me to strengthen proximity between the territories and the Government. Mr Pupponi, I largely share the priorities you have set for a new planning policy. I also agree with you about the need to break the logic of calls for projects to give priority to land projects. As far as city policy is concerned, I understand your concern that it should not be mentioned, but in committee, an amendment was adopted with my agreement that filled this gap. As far as the perimeter of the agency is concerned, I have already answered Mr. Bricout. As for the National Agency for Urban Renewal, I repeat this here after having indicated it in committee: its budget remains unchanged. The financial agreements will finance the actions of the ANCT and ANRU when they work together in a territory. Moreover, the articulation at the field level will be easy because the territorial delegate of the ANRU is the prefect, who is also the territorial delegate of the ANCT. Mr Leclabart, I agree with your concern to make the Agency a flexible and easy-to-manipulate tool, which will strengthen the territorialisation of public policies, particularly in the territories facing the greatest difficulties, particularly demographics, and which lack the tools to respond to them. We share this view of the Agency, and I welcome the rich work done in committee, which we will continue here. Mr Sermier, I take from your remarks your willingness to debate and obtain more clarification. I pledge to answer any questions you may have. I welcome your spirit, which will allow us to conduct a rich and lively debate, in the interests of the territories, particularly in rural areas. Mr Millienne, I understand your concern about the risk of disconnection between the needs of the territories and the image we can have from Paris. I want to reassure you because we want to avoid this pitfall. I share your wish to leave flexibility to the functioning of this agency and not to hinder its action by overly restrictive arrangements. It seemed useful to provide some clarification. However, I will ensure that the review of the text in open session does not increase it. Mrs Pires Beaune, I understand your wish to return to the mythical DATAR.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u68	It was a good machine!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u69	Planning!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u70	[[Exclaims on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] A good machine, of course, but it corresponded to a time when decisions were taken in Paris and were binding on the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u71	It's good sometimes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u72	She also had other means than today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u73	It was state planning. I am not sure that such an approach would meet the expectations of the territories today. I do not criticise the DATAR, however, because it corresponded to its time. Today, the elected representatives of the territories are rather waiting for a kind of reversed DATAR, i.e. support, by a protective state, of their local projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u74	And financial resources!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u75	Of course! We share your analysis of the needs of the territories, Ms. Pires Beaune, and we will ensure that they are met. [[Smile]] Mr Vigier, I agree, on the whole, with everything you have said. Like you, I don't want this agency to become a gas plant. We do not create an additional operator since we leave existing operators that we group together. Moreover, we must trust the territories, strengthen their attractiveness by developing digital services. It will not be a cross road for the elect, but a beautiful pilgrimage from Puy-en-Velay.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u76	We'll do Santiago de Compostela together!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u77	Mrs Zannier, thank you for your comments and your support for the creation of the ANCT, the vision we have and the objectives we want to set for it. I welcome your intervention. Mr Bouillon, you were right to recall the widening gap between the territories. We share the same view and it is precisely to remedy this that we are creating this tool. With regard to governance, you want elected officials to be put forward and not relegated to a simple trapontin. I agree. In fact, the presidency of the agency will go back to a local elected official. For the rest, I agree with you. Mr Pajot, you mentioned a tool that makes the action of state operators simple and legible for local elected officials. That is exactly what we are pursuing. Thank you for your participation. Finally, Mr Cesarini, you have pointed out the widening gap between the metropolis and the other territories, a problem that is very important to you. It is true, but metropolises exist and are sources of wealth. The challenge is to share this wealth among the territories, as Mr. Bouillon rightly pointed out. Some territories have already entered into reciprocal contracts. This is a start and we will have to go further, but it is interesting, for the time being, that the territories are not partitioned. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You can count on me to work in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u78	I now call in the committee's text the articles of the bill adopted by the Senate, establishing a National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u79	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 185.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u80	Since we all aspire, up to the minister, to simplicity, Mr.Viry's amendment simply tends to change the title of this agency that does not need to be complicated but must be relevant. The term "territorial agency" will suffice, since cohesion is implicit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u81	Mrs Yolaine de Courson, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u82	Short titles are always more pleasant, but, in this case, it is useful to include the concept of cohesion in the name of the agency, in so far as it refers to union. Cohesion will make it possible to carry out projects carried out by local actors, which will go beyond the perspective of everyone for themselves. These projects will create a dynamic, foster the emergence of the link between the inhabitants and strengthen collaboration between the territories. We need cohesion, especially now.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u83	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u84	This debate took place in committee and I agree with the rapporteur, especially since the elected representatives have adopted the name "National Cohesion Agency of the Territories". I therefore invite you to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u85	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u86	I'm holding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u87	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u88	I welcome the fact that today, in open session, we are considering this bill to create a National Agency for Territorial Cohesion. The territories and the overseas populations expect a lot from us, from this agency, but also from the cohesion policy of the territories. I hope that this agency's resources and missions will meet the challenges and expectations. It will have to carry out its mission as closely as possible to all the territories, whatever they may be, but I hope above all that it will not be hampered by administrative obstacles. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Let us hope that she will be able to accompany the territories with respect for their diversity and identity. I have tabled amendments to this effect in order to recall the specific nature of the ultramarine territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u89	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u90	The scope of the debate that you are proposing to us will have frustrated a lot, on these benches, since it is limited to the simple administrative functioning of an agency, to the determination of its name or to the functions of its future director, while our country is going through an unprecedented crisis whose ferments are coming from the territorial divides. Where is the cohesion of a territory when a young Ardéchois from Aubenas, Coucouron or des Vans has to study 200 kilometres from his home and rent an apartment, which represents as much financial burden as the young Lyonnais or Montpellierain will not have to pay, housed very warmly with his parents? However, solutions exist to strengthen the supply of higher education in our territories, in relation to our high schools, apprenticeship training centres and chambers of commerce and industry. We'd like to discuss it. Where is the cohesion of the territories when our health care system is no longer able to ensure a medical presence in Valgorge, Saint-Cyr or Burzet? When are we going to force doctors to settle in medical deserts, take steps to strengthen local hospitals, attract medical students to the territories? Where is the cohesion of the territories when Orange takes months to repair the landline in Mazan-l'Abbaye or Saint-Laurent-les-Bains, leaving entire hamlets without a telephone link, in the middle of a white area of mobile phone? It's no help to anyone in danger! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Let me remind you, through these few examples, of the concrete questions that arise in our territories. I invite you to put the bell tower back in the middle of the village and to take advantage of these debates, not to conduct a technocratic debate, but to explain to us your vision of rurality and to present your plans.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u91	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u92	Do we intend to meet the territorial divide and the need to reinvest the rural and peripheral territories by creating an agency which, moreover, is rather a ridicule of current agencies or services of the State than a truly new entity, fully dedicated to the territories? What are France's territories waiting for? Investment, not a reduction, year after year, of public services: most recently, in my home, stations have closed in the middle of winter, leaving users – including disabled workers – on the dock, outside, under negative temperatures. I am also thinking about class closures, the decrease in the number of doctors, the shortage of specialists that forces some parents to travel more than 80 kilometres to try to get an appointment with a speech therapist for their dyslexic child. This is the reality of rural, peripheral and mountain areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u93	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u94	What the territories are waiting for, Madam Minister, is the fact that the Government is investing concretely for them with an ambitious vision of land-use planning. The territories are an opportunity for our country, a potential for wealth, if we do not systematically consider them, in our public policies, as burdens that we would always decide, in the end, to rationalize. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Despite your good will, minister, I fear that the new agency will be a bit like the shadows projected from the cave myth, which make illusions take for reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u95	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u96	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u97	There are two reproaches that I will never make you, Madam Minister, and in any case not on this text: that of not knowing the territories and that of not being sincere in your convictions. These two reproaches, no one will be able to do them to you, I think, during our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u98	Bravo, thank you for admitting it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u99	Having said that, you spoke earlier about sincerity and proximity to the territories. In today's major debates, there is clearly a question of territorial divide. Some territories, Minister, simply feel abandoned. Just now, everyone seemed to want to resurrect the spirit of DATAR. With it, you said, things started from above before irrigating territories; But if they irrigated them, it was because the state was present in the boroughs, via the DDAF – departmental directorates of agriculture and forest – or the DDE – departmental directorates of equipment – for example. Anyway, there was a lot of people in the sub-prefectures. I am not questioning your sincerity, but I am not sure that the creation of a national agency is the best solution to respond to this fracture, to this sense of abandonment. Over the years, political powers on all sides have regionalized and centralized the state, abandoning territories where it disappeared from boroughs. I am therefore concerned about the response given with this National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories. I will return to this with Article 3 because, if this agency is chaired by an elected official, it will be composed mainly of representatives of the State, and it will be Parisian.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u100	Yes, that's the risk!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u101	Without questioning your sincerity, minister, I would therefore like to express some concerns at the threshold of our discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u102	Legitimate concerns!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u103	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u104	Who would not want to subscribe, to acquiesce, to applaud a bill that promotes the effectiveness and coordination of the State's action in the service of the territories, of all the territories? Who would not want to subscribe to a simplification approach and a more pragmatic one? No one, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u105	Then do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u106	I must admit, there is still an apprehension, a doubt at the reading of this bill. We have heard this speech so much! We've already been so promised, the same promises! And what we see every day is the opposite, the absolute opposite! I will take an example, of course, from my constituency. In order to carry out projects successfully, our local communities need – and are even obliged by law – to call on the administration of the fields. Since last year, the latter no longer has a representative in Béziers: they have all been repatriated to Montpellier, our capital. As a result, while it took about two months to know the value of a property, it now takes six or even eight. And as a bonus, if I dare say, whoever does the evaluation can't come to the field, for lack of time. Hence some surprises, and not always good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u107	Yes, here's a concrete example!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u108	These are situations of this kind that cripple our territories. So yes, this agency is welcome provided, of course, that it is at the service of the territories;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u109	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u110	[[Mr Ludovic Pajot applauds]] ... on condition that it is not an umpteenth structure, an umpteenth "bidule" which becomes more fattened than it distributes, obstructed by its regulations, paralyzed by kilometers of meetings or eaten by quarrels between jealous administrations of their prerogatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u111	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u112	My dear minister, a few months ago, with Pierre Morel -À- L'Huissier and Philippe Vigier – who will certainly talk about it after me – we co-edited a bill to create a cohesion agency for the territories. In our mind, however, this agency was the counterpart of the ANRU. We considered that, in addition to the policy on cities and urbanism, there was a need for another one, specific to rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u113	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u114	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u115	This is not the angle you have chosen, Minister, since the new agency will actually bring together the Digital Agency, the CGET and the EPARECA. I support you in this beginning of grouping, because there is much to do in this regard. During the previous legislature, François Hollande, his government and his majority created, with two texts, a disorder in our country: the law relating to the new map of regions on the one hand, and the NOTR law on the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u116	We can't say better!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u117	This has led to a total confusion of competences: between intercommunalities, metropolises, regions and departments, we no longer know who does what.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u118	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u119	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on several benches of the LR group]] During the debates that will take place for at least the next two days, Minister, you will have to set out your vision of the organization of the state, your vision of decentralization and the skills you intend to give the territories. What they need is an interlocutor. A number of operators must therefore be brought together. Beyond the grouping planned in the future agency, there is therefore, in my view, also work to be done with ANAH and ADEME, because, in the area of housing, both are concerned. Regional health agencies, too, should be placed under the authority of a prefect. Thus the mayors, the territorial elected representatives and the parliamentarians would, in the person of the Prefect, have a single interlocutor, under the direction of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u120	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u121	You are not at issue, Madam Minister – because we know you and appreciate what you are doing – but we rural MPs are concerned; because rurality is not well understood in the bill. The future agency will bring together the current CGET – which has an office dedicated to urban planning, but none to rural areas – the EPARECA and the Digital Agency, and agreements are planned with CEREMA, ANRU, ANAH and ADEME. However, the ANRU is still the city, which also has its ministry. How much weight will your future agency have in relation to central administrations, far removed from rural concerns? How much weight will it have in relation to the RSAs, these "things" that we no longer support in our territories because they "lay us down" norms or ratios that never cease to bother us? What we need, Minister, is legal, technical and financial engineering. There is no one-stop shop, you say: the whole problem is there! Mayors are trying to set up files combining a bit of equipment from rural territories – DETR – and a little bit of state endowments, but the problem is that of the one-stop shop: you have to be able to file a single file, rather than deposit one with the department, another with the region and another with the state, at the risk of mixing everything. [[Smiles and exclamations on various benches]] We must also talk about the role of the prefects, of which I am surprised that they do not have a very proven culture of rural development and, above all, of the economy. We often have disillusionments with the prefects, I say it as I think.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u122	Depends on the territory!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u123	In Lozère, a prefect thus caused us some problems. Prefects should do internships in rural areas: by creating the National Territorial Cohesion Agency, we would have officials who know our territories a little.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u124	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u125	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u126	Article 1 seeks to establish the National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories, which is legally defined as a "public establishment of the State", and to specify the geographical scope of its tasks, namely, as you said, the entire national territory. One more structure, another structure, you will tell me! You spoke, Madam Minister, of an effective structure, capable of serving the territories or creating an embodiment for them. Until then, everything's fine. You also said that the future agency should focus, at first, on the most neglected territories. We agree, too, but, very concretely, how will it act? What financial means will it have to solve the shared problems of the most rural territories? How will it respond to such specific issues as medical desertification or the digital divide, many of which suffer? This last question, Mr Denormandie had promised, at the beginning of the quinquennium, that it would be resolved by 2022. We are still far from it, alas, and I doubt that this deadline can be met. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] How many public services continue to disappear in our territories? I could cite many other examples of the territorial divide; and, in all the questions I ask about it, I have found no answer when I read the bill. I will therefore try to find these answers in the course of our debates, so that the National Agency for Territorial Cohesion becomes fully operational, that it is not a penny-filled, expensive thing that would serve nothing and that our fellow citizens, who show it to us every day, no longer want.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u127	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u128	This article, concerning the Agency's very purpose and scope of action, is of particular importance and calls for two comments. First of all, while the cohesion of the territories is, in the opinion of all, a major challenge, it remains above all an objective, as the inequalities are flagrant and the territorial divide is increasingly marked. The territories – of which you have been reminded, Minister – are not equal in their development capabilities. They have specificities, everyone agrees, and many – I was going to say almost all – have assets. They often have projects, but also, for a number of them, disabilities. The abandonment and downgrading suffered by the inhabitants of these most fragile territories and their elected representatives is not only a feeling: they correspond well to the reality experienced. Therefore, the future agency will only have an interest and benefit if it acquires the human and financial resources to rebalancing between the territories; If not, the most fragile of them will fall apart: this will be the case for rural and mountain areas, but also for small and medium-sized towns in the provinces or neighbourhoods of cities that are considered dynamic. Hence the need, Madam Minister, to pay particular, more sustained attention to the territories which, objectively, suffer the most. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Finally, we must ensure that the tasks entrusted to this new agency do not duplicate those already carried out on the ground by the existing agencies: I am thinking in particular of the departmental engineering agencies, which have proved their usefulness. You have alluded to it in committee, Madam Minister, but it seems to me useful, and even indispensable, to include such an obligation in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u129	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u130	[["Of course! » on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] If you allow me, minister, I will make two observations, a criticism and a question. In the last few weeks, I have been asking myself the following question: without what happened a certain Saturday, 17 November, and then the Saturdays that followed, would we discuss this evening the necessary creation of a National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u131	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u132	The reflection was a long time ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u133	This question can legitimately be asked. And you responded earlier, Madam Minister, at the end of the general discussion, calling for a quick start, which does not lock the agency in long organic debates. I therefore continue to wonder about the link between the movement of the yellow vests and the creation of the agency. My second observation is that in the face of a problem, a specific French reaction is the creation of a new agency. I could give you many examples. Each of the successive majorities has thus set up its own agencies, to the extent that there are now some which are no longer known what they are used for or which, at least, have not proved their concrete effectiveness, but which are maintained as national agencies. It's a reality! As for the criticism I wish to make, it is clear that a National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories must be able to remedy the difficulties of rural areas. It could, it was said very well, be the counterpart of the ANRU: we could have gone so far as to substitute it for the ANRU for the rural territories. Finally, my question is: do you really think, Madam Minister, that without addressing any substantive issues, by sticking to a technical administrative notion,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u134	Technocratic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u135	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] ...yes, technocratic, are you going to solve the rural problem? I don't believe it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u136	Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u137	Among the missions that will be assigned to the ANCT, the one that raises the greatest number of questions in rural areas is access to public services. In this regard, whatever the ministry concerned, whatever the government, the situation is always the same: a proactive speech on the one hand; of the other, the reality of a continuous distance from the users. The list of services affected is long, from cash to courts to gendarmerie barracks: so many markers of the regal missions of the State that move away from the administered ones. On the issue of cash flows, allow me to tell you, Madam Minister, that your absence from answer to a question that was asked to you last week, in questions to the Government, about the assumption of a single cash flow per department, is fuelling many questions and fears in our territories. Local authorities have tried well to contain the decline in public services that we have seen for years. Thus, in my department of Calvados, the General Council created in 2002 the Info 14 points, which allow the user, in some 30 rural towns, to be welcomed by an agent present to inform him, in order to make up for the closure of the windows of the various public services. The State has taken this positive initiative to develop its network of public service houses for the past two years. The initiative is positive, I said, but operating expenses are increasing: with the success of the formula, the administrations have tended to discharge even more of their responsibilities, so much so that today the network of the departmental council no longer allows to welcome new partners. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The challenge is essential, Madam Minister: local authorities have long made up for the shortcomings of the state when it comes to ensuring the presence of public services in the territory, but, having been deprived of the means, and having had to limit the evolution of their expenditure, they cannot continue at the same rate. The State must take this into account and compensate for the efforts it has undertaken.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u138	Mr Alain Perea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u139	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I've been hearing about everything we shouldn't do and what to do for a while. But I have nothing to do with the fact that I found Narbonne's sub-prefecture empty when, as a newly elected Member of Parliament, I pushed the door to it: it was not the present majority that emptied the services of the State. I want to hear that we should do this or that, but the current situation is the one we have found. However, once this has been done, it is not a question of contenting itself with it and of suffering the situation. Today, the territories that survive are the ones that take control of themselves. I hear too often that we are going to assist the territories: we must break with this logic. For our part, what we want is to accompany them to enable them to move forward. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We're talking a lot about mayors. I was myself. But the territories are not just the mayors: they are companies, associations, residents. Let us stop thinking that land use planning only involves addressing the mayor – and, I repeat, I have carried out this mandate. [[Anne Brugnera applauds]] [[MM. Christophe Euzet, draftsman, and Brahim Hammouche applaud]] So let's stop trying to help the territories: let's go with them, let's show incentives to them. Let us also stop dividing them into metropolises, on the one hand, and rural territories on the other, as if to reproduce the division of our cities across the country between chic neighbourhoods and suburbs. Our country must be united; This is what we want to achieve through the agency. Let's break with the logics of the past. We must encourage the territories to innovate...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u140	With what means?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u141	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ...through public policies like those that my colleagues have put forward. It is on this condition that the agency will succeed in moving forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u142	We come to the amendments to Article 1. I call Mr Max Mathiasin to support Amendment No. 157.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u143	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u144	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u145	Disadvantaged, for the same reasons as in the case of the amendment previously defended by Mr Sermier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u146	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 438.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u147	It is a question of specifying the nature of the public establishment created here. The tasks entrusted to the Agency should lead to the definition of the Agency as a public administrative institution. In its opinion on the text at the request of the President of the Senate, the Council of State stated that "the dominant activity of this agency will be administrative in nature". It stresses, moreover, that the nature of the tasks carried out and that of the main resources of a public institution constitute the criteria for characterising their nature; But the resources of the agency – as you said, Madam Minister – will come primarily from the state budget, which confirms to us that it will be a public administrative institution. Finally, it is legitimate to draw an analogy between the tasks of the Agency and those of public engineering and technical support to the local authorities which are entrusted to CEREMA, which is precisely a public administrative establishment. Is it not, in fact, the main mission of the agency to provide engineering and technical support to the communities?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u148	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u149	The designation of a public administrative establishment cannot be included in the Act establishing the ANCT: this agency will include EPARECA, a public industrial and commercial establishment; A portion of ANCT's activities will therefore be commercial. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u150	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u151	Same opinion. While the ANCT brings together the CGET, which is a central administration, and the Digital Agency, it cannot be described as a public administrative institution since, as the rapporteur has just said, it also includes EPARECA, a public industrial and commercial establishment. The question of the qualification of the public institution was raised during the discussions in the Council of State, prior to the consideration of the bill in the Senate; As a result, the ANCT was qualified as a sui generis public institution, both administrative, industrial and commercial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u152	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 381.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u153	Sometimes, I readily recognize it, mechanisms are created that are simple, easy to implement, and that work: I am thinking for example of the "City Action" programme that benefits my municipality. It all happens then as if we had learned from the shortcomings of other mechanisms of city politics, terribly heavy, bureaucratic, technocratic, which involve study costs and generate reports and investigations to be completed. If the new agency has to be light, inexpensive, able to mobilise the energy of all, then of course we have to create it. But above all, it must be at the service of communities, regardless of their size. This is the whole point of our debate and this is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u154	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u155	Article 1 provides that the agency "exercises its tasks throughout the national territory" and Article 2 specifies that it is responsible for advising and supporting all local authorities and groups of communities. Therefore, the amendment is satisfied. I therefore ask for the withdrawal, failing which I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u156	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u157	Same opinion. I really think that the amendment is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u158	Do you maintain your amendment, Member?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u159	Yeah, I'm holding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u160	Mr Vincent Rolland has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u161	This is a clarification amendment, under which the role of the National Territorial Cohesion Agency is to serve the territories, thus all communities, regardless of their stratum.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u162	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u163	This amendment is redundant: according to Article 2, all local authorities and their groups will be able to refer the matter to the Agency. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u164	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u165	The same opinion: the amendment is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u166	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor to support Amendment No. 392.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u167	We propose that paragraph 7 be supplemented by the words "with particular attention to territories with demographic, economic, social or access to public services", which will allow the deletion of paragraph 8 and its litany, in our sense unnecessary, from all matters relating to the Agency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u168	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u169	According to the initial wording of the bill, the agency "exercises its tasks throughout the national territory" in an undifferentiated manner. The wording adopted by the Senate accompanied this provision with a paragraph that defines the few categories of territories in which, by nature, the need for agency intervention will be most felt. We have chosen in committee to retain this paragraph by amending it. I am therefore against its deletion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u170	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u171	Mr Millienne, I understand your particularly laudable concern to simplify the drafting of the bill. It still seems interesting to me to highlight the mention that the agency is carrying out its tasks throughout the national territory. As for support for innovative projects, I know that several Members are committed to it. I would therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u172	Mr Joël Giraud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u173	The amendment would remove from the text any reference to Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which alone defines in European and French law the very concept of territorial cohesion – even if there is also a descriptive decree concerning the Minister, as she is responsible for the cohesion of the territories. The subparagraph should therefore be retained as it stands. In addition, it lists several particularly fragile territories – mountain, border, but also with very low population density and island. France has promoted this definition to the European Commission through the European Committee of the Regions. It is useful that French law is here in line with the specificities recognised by the European Union, especially since they are crucial for our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u174	Mr Bruno Duvergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u175	Last week, in my constituency, I moved to a community of communes with more than one hundred communes, where I was presented with a solution to a problem common to all rural areas: mobility. This was not another solution, but rather the consistency of a set of solutions in a plan defining mobility hubs in villages of a thousand inhabitants. This plan was based on the solutions already known: transport on demand, transport in solidarity, crossing of buses on the same platforms, construction of bicycle garages, installation of electric terminals... Only, putting this type of project into music requires qualified engineering. Such a project is therefore not defined by place or sociology but by its complexity, by the fact that it must meet a need that we all have. That is why, since we must be able to respond to all situations, at the request of the territories, at the request of the mayors, of the presidents of communities of communes – that is how the ANC must be understood – I support Mr Millienne's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u176	It's ugly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u177	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 191, 515, 63 and 169, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 63 and 169 are identical. Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No 191.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u178	This amendment is full of common sense and you can therefore support it, Madam Minister. Its purpose is simply that the ANCT can rely on the de-concentrated organisations of the regions and departments, in order to ensure good coordination with the existing arrangements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u179	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 515.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u180	The aim is to ensure that ANCT services are organized in a de-concentrated manner in each department in order to facilitate the execution of its missions through a closer territorial network.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u181	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 63, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u182	This amendment concerns the Agency's relationship with local and regional authorities. During the examination of the text in committee, the involvement of the departments was stressed, many having developed technical agencies over time. In 2015, the Republic's new territorial organization law strengthened the region as a leader in economic development and spatial planning. It is therefore the importance of the regional level that needs to be clarified in the text, as this is where the territorial aspects of the State-region plan contracts are prepared and applied and regional programmes for the management of European funds are drawn up. This is why the ANCT must rely on a decentralised organisation at the regional level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u183	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor to support Amendment No. 169.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u184	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u185	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u186	With regard to Amendment No 191, Mr Vigier, we have confirmed in committee the choice made by the Senate of the departmental level for the territorial organisation of the Agency. Adding a level, in this case the regional level, would only complicate access to this agency for project promoters, and would lead to the gas plant you fear.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u187	How do you know?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u188	So unfavorable opinion. Second, Amendment No. 515 is satisfied by Article 5 of the bill, which makes each prefect of the department the territorial delegate of the ANCT. Unfavorable opinion. As for the identical amendments Nos. 63 and 169, the choice of the Senate to take the department as a step of proximity was confirmed in committee. Opinion, here too, unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u189	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u190	My opinion is also unfavorable. We had a long discussion in committee on the subject and we decided that the prefect of the department would be the ANC representative on the territories. I know there has been a willingness to have the regional prefect play a role. I am, of course, not opposed to this, but the planned articulation between the prefects of the départements and the prefects of the region is entirely in line with the practices in force, which are specified, not by law but by the decree on the powers of the prefects. I would stress that there are currently no legislative norms which specify, in the field which we are interested in here as in any other field, the relationship between the prefect of the department and the prefect of the region. This articulation, I repeat, is defined at the regulatory level, and the Government does not wish to question this balance in the context of the consideration of this text. This fundamental principle does not in fact prevent regional prefects from working with departmental prefects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u191	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u192	The purpose of this amendment is to supplement paragraph 7 without being contradictory to paragraph 8, since it is only to clarify that the Agency intervenes in territories which do not benefit from any national arrangements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u193	But what does that mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u194	In support of this amendment, you will find in an annex to the prefigurative report a map listing the 1046 sub-regional contracts; you will see that, despite all these contracts, white areas remain, which we hope will receive special attention from the Agency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u195	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u196	Of course, it is regrettable that there are white areas, but it is not for this reason that other territories should be denied access to the ANCT. Above all, these white areas need to use the Agency for their projects. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u197	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u198	Same opinion. I do not understand the meaning of this amendment. The ANCT can intervene in all territories to accompany either local projects or projects that are the result of a public policy of the State – such as a "City Action" programme, which is constituted by the projects of the territories. I therefore do not understand the precise purpose of this amendment, because all the territories are eligible, even if the projects are not covered by public policy. For example, for a gymnasium construction project, the ANCT may intervene if there is no other possible engineering assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u199	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u200	I didn't make myself clear. We do not mean that the Agency intervenes exclusively in the territories covered by the amendment. We simply say that if the Agency cannot respond to several projects at the same time, it will have to focus on territories in a white area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u201	There! Very good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u202	The rapporteur is completely next to the plate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u203	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 190.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u204	At least try to follow us on this amendment, minister. It states that the ANCT must be able to take account of the arrangements defined by the regions, in particular with regard to spatial planning. Here, too, it is a matter of common sense to help rural areas that need it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u205	On Amendment No 391, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 190?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u206	Article 2 states that the Agency shall carry out its tasks in accordance with the competences of each level of local authorities and that it shall identify all available public and private engineering resources. It is therefore not useful to introduce this amendment in Article 1 of the text. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u207	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor to support Amendment No. 391.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u208	You will believe, Madam Minister, that my head is a little harsh, which is quite true. I request the deletion of paragraph 8. I understand the definition given to us by our colleague Giraud, but I have a little concern: if, in time, things change and we have not characterized all the territories concerned by the Agency, some will not ask him for his help. Let us finally let the local elected representatives take care of their territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u209	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u210	The Senate has chosen to add a definition of priority territories for the Agency's activity – priorities, but not the only ones in which it will intervene. We have kept this provision in committee, complementing it with a cross-cutting priority to be given to innovative projects – the ANCT will allow for boldness. I am therefore against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u211	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u212	Mr Millienne, I ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u213	He won't want it because he's got a hard head!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u214	In committee, the drafting of section 1 of the bill has been the subject of many debates and additions, and the balance we have achieved seems to me to have a relative consensus. Moreover, it is not uninteresting that the text should mention the Agency's priority areas of action, which has been requested on several occasions on all benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u215	Mr Joël Giraud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u216	I will not repeat what I said earlier, even though I am probably as hard-headed as my neighbor – probably a mountain trait. It may be thought that a list of priority areas is a prevert inventory meaningless, in terms of mountains, islands, sparsely populated areas, etc. Nevertheless, those who worked during the previous legislature on the law on the modernization, development and protection of mountain areas remember that we were obliged to specify exhaustively the list of competences falling within the scope of the specificities related to mountain law, simply because the administration considers that if the law does not specify it, there can be no specific regime. This has been the case with national education, and it has been a long struggle to explain that an educational grouping is not the same according to whether schools are located in two different points at 2000 metres above sea level or in the suburbs of a city. This has been difficult to understand, and we have been forced to include it in the law. [[Ms. Émilie Bonnivard applauds]] The clarifications provided by paragraph 8 are such as to avoid precisely this kind of pitfall with regard to specific territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u217	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u218	I agree with what Mr Giraud has just said. For more than thirty years now, in this House, we have been many, and others before us, to fight for Parliament to recognize the specificity of certain territories. Indeed, it is taken into account in some of our laws and reflected in fundamental European Union texts. The debates in committee have made it possible to identify territories on which there is a permanent exchange between Parliament and an administration which can be understood to want less and less territorial specificities to be recognised in our country. In committee, however, Parliament has decided. The amendment we are debating would remove a number of territorial specificities. Let us be very clear, ladies and gentlemen, if it were to be adopted, mountain specificity will disappear when it has been recognised in committee. Personally, I will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u219	Neither do I!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u220	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u221	On a personal basis, and on behalf of the IDU Group, Action and Independents, I support the amendment. As Mr Bruno Millienne, who defended it, we believe that the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories should address all the territories, without exception. Above all, it must be the privileged interlocutor of the elected representatives of the territories who make the projects emerge, of whatever nature, whatever territory they concern – peripheral, rural, semi-rural, medium or other. It should also be added that this amendment also simplifies the proposed provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u222	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u223	Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u224	We will vote against the amendment, although we recognize the laudable intention of our colleague Millienne. We also recognize the work done in committee; that is the meaning of this vote against.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u225	We're talking about cohesion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u226	Even if the text is addressed to all the territories, it is up to us, in writing the law, to recognize certain specificities, as several of our colleagues have just pointed out. We want the balance found in committee to be preserved in the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u227	I put to the vote Amendment No 391.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u228	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 90 Number of votes cast 88 Absolute majority 45 For adoption 16 Against 72
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u229	The Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u230	Madam Chair, I ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u231	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u232	The meeting was resumed. We come to two amendments, Nos 90 and 439, which can be discussed together. Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 90.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u233	Under paragraph 8, the Agency supports innovative projects on the one hand and priority areas on the other. The amendment tends to make it clear that it obviously supports these territories, but also pays particular attention to their innovative projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u234	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 439.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u235	For the GDR group, the reference to the concept of innovative projects should be deleted. It must be recognised that it is, to say the least, vague, not based on any tangible assessment criteria. What is innovative for one population or territory may not be innovative for others. What about the innovation between a health home, now a very common facility, and a community health centre project? Between a project for a hydrogen transport network for a whole basin of life, and a municipal transport project for people with reduced mobility, which already exists in a number of communities? Between a small development project as we all know it in our territories, and a labeled eco-neighbourhood project, in vogue at the moment? Between a school gymnasium, to take your example, Madam Minister, now on the common agenda of many communities, and an intercommunal swimming pool project labeled disability, of course very innovative? In short, we would prefer the text to stick as much as possible to the initial focus, which is a matter of clearly shared problems. Especially since the innovative character, according to the spirit of time, already has a vacuum effect with expertise and funding. Let us not give in to the risk of dispersal of human and financial resources by making the ANCT a mere innovation agency for the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u236	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u237	Unfavorable opinion. The wording adopted by the committee is, on the one hand, to give priority to supporting certain territories in their projects, whether they are innovative or not, and, on the other hand, to supporting the promoters of innovative projects in all territories. It's a bounty for audacity. The National Territorial Cohesion Agency must also serve projects with a dose of risk, thus helping to make new ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u238	Blah, blah, blah, blah,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u239	These innovative projects, it is planned that the Agency will bring them together in a "hotec project" where they will be shared and from which all territories will be able to draw. Thus, Mr. Wulfranc, you could associate with your health care home a van that would pick up people who cannot travel, or other devices that would make the project even stronger and more innovative.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u240	How about a helicopter? Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u241	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u242	The amendment supported by Mr Bouillon is not without logic. I therefore issue an opinion of wisdom on No 90 and, consequently, since it responds to Mr Wulfranc's concern, a request for withdrawal on No 439.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u243	Mr. Wulfranc? ...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u244	[[Smile]] When I'm asked to withdraw for Mr. Bouillon's benefit, I execute myself!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u245	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 167 and 279. Mr Vincent Rolland, in support of Amendment No. 167, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u246	The widening of inequalities between territories has never been more important. The yellow vest crisis has also been that of inequalities between the territories, between those who have access to the benefits of globalization and those who are left on the roadside. Access to care, mobility, access to education are all major issues in our territories too often forgotten. The National Territorial Cohesion Agency must take these issues into account and prioritize these areas. This is the subject of this amendment tabled by Mr Louwagie.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u247	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 279.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u248	Not all territories have the same level of fragility. This amendment by my colleague Isabelle Valentin aims to give the Agency a priority target for those most affected by the territorial divide, those for whom we need to get more involved in the areas of access to care, mobility, access to education, and all the others where they are too often forgotten.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u249	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u250	How can we define precisely the concept of territories affected by the territorial divide?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u251	You can't answer that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u252	We can talk, depending on the case, about the digital divide, about the social divide. The proposed addition does not provide a useful element for the text. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u253	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u254	The Government considers these amendments to be satisfactory since it is mentioned in the text that the action of the ANCT will focus on "territories characterised by geographical constraints, demographic, economic, social or access to public services, with particular attention to the areas mentioned in Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union". The territories affected by a territorial divide are therefore included in this definition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u255	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u256	We have not been able to make us understand you, minister. You have just reread paragraph 8: as much as our MODEM colleagues wanted to delete it earlier, we in the LR Group consider that it is not only necessary to maintain it, but also to make it more precise. The geographical constraints you're talking about, in mountain areas, we know what it is – for example, the winter use of roads. The rapporteur seems not to be aware of the difficulties associated with certain territories; We can explain them to him. I can invite her to the Haut-Jura tomorrow, and she will understand what the territorial divide is, whether in terms of health, access to school or mobility. These are realities. Minister, the extremely general terms you have cited can be used in all territories. The objective, sincere and laudable, of this piece of legislation is to go as close as possible to the places where there is a territorial divide. We can always talk about innovative territories, but it is they, tomorrow, who will benefit from accompaniment and credits, to the detriment of very rural territories, who suffer from a real territorial divide. I wish you could hear it. The addition that we propose would provide more readability and clarity, and give them perspectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u257	Mr Didier Martin has the floor to support Amendment No. 495.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u258	This amendment, which I support on behalf of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, is intended to supplement paragraph 8 by stating that the Agency's action is also aimed at targeting territories with a territorial engineering deficit as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u259	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u260	The lack of access to local public engineering does not appear to be a relevant criterion for prioritisation. On the one hand, some local authorities have chosen not to set up a technical agency. On the other hand, it is sometimes national technical engineering that project promoters need – it was discussed earlier about the Genoa Bridge and other very specific subjects. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u261	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u262	The Government does not wish to introduce into the law this notion of lack of local public engineering, which is highly subjective. A territory can be equipped in engineering in certain areas – departments are equipped for roads only, or for roads and sewage treatment plants, but not anything else – depending on the skills it has, which are sometimes very limited. It is therefore very difficult to speak of a deficiency in the matter. And then, as the rapporteur has just mentioned, there may be exceptional cases. I therefore think it would be a mistake to include it in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u263	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 45, 120, 208 and 417, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 45, 120 and 208 are identical. Mr Martial Saddier, in support of Amendment No. 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u264	This amendment is intended to bring this text into line with the Environment Charter. Since its incorporation in the Constitution, any law of the Republic relating to development must refer to the three pillars of the Charter, namely the social pillar, the economic pillar and the environmental pillar. As the latter is absent from the wording before us, we propose to add the word "environmental".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u265	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor in support of the identical amendment No. 120.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u266	As my colleague Martial Saddier has just said, this is an amendment of consistency. Environmental development is one of the public policies and innovations developed by the territories, which must therefore be recognised as part of the accompanying and engineering work of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u267	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support the identical amendment No. 208.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u268	Madam Minister, I agree with my two colleagues: it is a very simple and common-sense amendment that must be adopted. The environmental dimension of the territories must simply be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u269	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 417.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u270	My amendment tends to insert the word "ecological" while "environmental" is more appropriate. I withdraw it for the benefit of the previous ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u271	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u272	He's in favor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u273	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u274	The Government shares the laudable aim of these identical amendments to clarify that the ANCT will also intervene as a matter of priority in territories with environmental difficulties. The ecological transition is indeed a priority of its action through, for example, ecological transition contracts, which will obviously fall within the scope of the ANCTR. Moreover, Article 2, which describes the tasks of the Agency, expressly specifies that the ANCT intervenes in support of local and regional authorities in the field of ecological transition. It seems to us essential that this mission be explicitly included in our missions. Finally, apart from demographic, economic or social difficulties, it does not seem uninteresting to mention environmental difficulties. It is, moreover, the spirit of the Environment Charter, annexed to the Constitution in 2004, which, in article 6, provides that the three pillars of sustainable development are "the protection and development of the environment, economic development and social progress. » Therefore, with regard to these identical amendments, the Government has issued a very benevolent opinion of wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u275	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u276	I call Mr Sebastien Leclerc to support Amendment No. 257.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u277	This amendment, which was co-signed by our colleague Jean-Yves Bony, explains that the ANC should not be concerned solely with access to public services: it should be concerned with access to services in general, given that private services are also essential to the cohesion of the territories. You are therefore proposed to delete the word "public" in paragraph 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u279	The disappearance of public services, as a result of the closure of windows, is a source of great concern and distress in our territories. The ANC will have the opportunity to support multi-dimensional projects that will obviously include the installation or relocation of commercial services, for example, alongside a public service house – MSAP – or in a third place. In any event, I believe it is essential to explicitly mention access to public services in the Agency's priorities. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u280	In the services, there are public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u281	This is not the same as services to the public.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u282	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u283	Article 2 states that the ANCT "shall carry out an alert and monitoring mission in order to raise awareness and inform public and private administrations and operators of the territorial impacts of their public policy decisions. It therefore seems to me that this amendment is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u284	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u285	Minister, it is not exactly the same to talk about public operators and private operators, and to talk about public services and services to the public. There is a real difference here. Earlier, our colleague Sébastien Leclerc said very well that the term "public services" is a reduction from that of "services to the public". It is therefore probably necessary to bring Article 1 into line with Article 2, which we would do by adopting Amendment No 257.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u286	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 103 and 192. I call Mr Max Mathiasin to support Amendment No. 103.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u287	Why do we propose, by this amendment co-signed by my colleagues Justine Benin and Brahim Hammouche, to introduce an element that would allow the digital divide to be taken into account? Because it is a reality in the world, in hexagonal France and, even more importantly, in the overseas countries. Hence our proposal to insert the words "and digital". It is very important in that it helps to remedy a disparity, a fracture that affects the populations and entire parts of the Republic's territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u288	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 192.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u289	In order to develop, our rural areas must have complete digital coverage. This amendment takes into account this need and the problems of the rural areas linked to it, stating that the ANC must be able to enable our citizens to access digital services. This seems to me to be very important and very urgent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u290	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u291	I agree that digital technology is a key element for areas in difficulty, particularly in rural areas with many white areas. In fact, it is clearly integrated into two of the Agency's three missions: the general mission defined in the first paragraph of Article 2, and the mission corresponding to the resumption of most of the Digital Agency, in paragraph 3 of the same Article. There is therefore no need to include this topic in Article 1, since it is satisfied in Chapters II and III. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u292	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u293	Mr Vigier, Mr Mathiasin, this is not to upset you, but, first, the Digital Agency is an integral part of the ANCT. We can't do better! Secondly, in the committee, with the Government's favourable opinion, an amendment was adopted which, in article 2, paragraph 16, clarified that the ANCT "promotes access to digital tools for the population as a whole and the development of digital uses and services in the territories. » For this reason, the amendments are really satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u294	[[Smile]] We really wanted to make sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u295	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier, to support Amendment No. 422.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u296	It will not surprise you that the deputy for Lozère supports the concept of rurality. Article 1 defines the tasks and priorities of the ANCT; I would have liked the rural territories to be included. While the city is the object of the attention of the ANRU and the ministry of the same name, nowhere is there any mention of the priority to be given to rural territories. It seems to me that the rapporteur, who is chair of the Rural Studies Group, should be sensitive to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u297	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u298	I'm hypersensitive to rural life.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u299	I know that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u300	However, not all rural areas are fortunately in difficulty, and some areas in difficulty are not rural. I consider that the concern expressed by the amendment is satisfied by the wording of Article 1. So I'm asking for it to be withdrawn. Otherwise, the commission would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u301	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u302	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u303	Mr Morel - To the Hussier, do you withdraw Amendment No 422?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u304	I'm holding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u305	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 69, 160, 67, 161, 68, 162 and 460, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 69 and 160 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 67 and 161 and 68 and 162. Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 69.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u306	He will be excellently defended by my colleague Martial Saddier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u307	I call Mr Martial Saddier to support Amendment No. 160.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u308	As my colleague Émilie Bonnivard would have done better, I wanted to make sure, with this amendment and the following, that the territories in the mountain areas would be satisfied. Both in the general discussion and during the examination of Article 1, we argued for territories that felt abandoned, or even abandoned, or were so specific that they needed to be particularly supported by the future agency. We think, at this very moment, of two types of territory: mountain territories and border areas, some of which are even both mountain and border areas. And when they are with a country that is not a member of the European Union, such as the Swiss Confederation, which has a very decentralized organisation of power, with cantons and autonomous republics, believe me, it is not every day simple to adapt the texts of the French Republic. This amendment, like the following, therefore tends to go back to the absolute need to take into account mountain areas and border areas. Can you confirm to us, Madam Minister, that this is the case with the text in its current form?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u309	Amendment No 67 was defended by Mrs Emilie Bonnivard. The same amendment No 161 was defended by Mr Martial Saddier. Amendment No 68 was defended by Mrs Emilie Bonnivard. The same amendment No 162 was also defended by Mr Martial Saddier. Mr Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 460.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u310	To give power to the ANCT, you have to be repairing, and repair the territories that suffer the most. Among these, the rural, island, mountain, urban and ultramarine territories have experienced the most difficulties in recent years. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] If we want to remove the fractures, I think we have to put the package where all the suffering has been added up over the years. Otherwise, unfortunately, the Agency will not achieve this ambitious objective of repairing these territories as a whole. Let's go carry the iron where we need it! I see that Mr. Millienne encourages us to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u311	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u312	The term "geographical constraints" covers mountains, border areas and coastlines. These amendments are therefore satisfied. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u313	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u314	On the one hand, Article 1 states that the ANC will pay particular attention to territories with geographical constraints within the meaning of Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. You can trust its author, Joël Giraud, this writing directly targets the mountain territories and, also, the border areas. On the other hand, in Article 2, it is written, black and white, that the Agency "ensure that the specific features of mountain areas are taken into account and contribute to their development, development and protection". The amendments are therefore satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u315	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u316	Minister, they're only half of them. Indeed, Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union does not mention two types of territory among those I quote in my amendment: ultramarine territories and urban territories in difficulty. It is therefore a supplementary amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u317	Mountain regions are mentioned...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u318	... as well as island regions and sparsely populated areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u319	But we're talking about the overseas territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u320	The floor is for Mrs Frédérique Tuffnell – and for herself, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u321	I am somewhat surprised to hear you, colleagues. I had the impression, however, that we were talking here about things that we all know: territory,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u322	The territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u323	[[Long exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] ...rurality, France we know. With all due respect, one can always play to make an inventory at the Prévert of all territories – marine, ultramarine, geographically in difficulty or digital divide.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u324	It's not a game!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u325	The territories, you have to know them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u326	And it's not because we go skiing during the winter holidays that we know the mountain!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u327	But we, like you, know them, the territories, and they are all concerned! I tell you sincerely, there is no point in clarifying what this is about. We are well aware of the difficulties of these territories. What we are talking about is the National Cohesion Agency of the Territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u328	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u329	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u330	My dear colleague, there is certainly the content of the law but, traditionally, there is also the comments made by parliamentarians and the reply that the representative of the Government makes to the bench: all this is written in the Official Gazette and leaves a trace. We have presented these amendments in a calm, calm and constructive spirit, with the aim of eliciting a reaction from the Minister on behalf of the Government. In fact, it may serve you, Mrs Tuffnell, in your own constituency, when you fight, with the help of your department's prefect, for one of your files to be taken into account by the future structure. Perhaps you will be happy, at that time, to rely on the comments of some parliamentarians, who have pointed the finger at the problem and repeatedly asked the Government to clarify at the sitting that the future structure will take care of something. It is in this spirit that we have tabled these amendments. I have heard the message about the mountain, but the border areas are still carrying another specificity. They represent – which is little known – hundreds of thousands of jobs outside the territory. These are territories which, if combined with seasonal and frontier jobs, experience extremely strong population variations and significant flows of movement during the year. Whether it is the Pyrenees or the Southern Alps, in the border section of the North or in the adjoining part with the Swiss Confederation, these are territories which are concerned by texts, regulations and often bilateral agreements with the European Union which pass over the French Parliament. The purpose of this discussion is therefore to ensure, Madam Minister, that the future national structure will have the capacity to listen, understand and consider the specificity of these territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u331	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u332	And, to abound in Mr Vigier's sense, it concerns both the border, tourist, mountain and priority areas of the city's politics – there are even territories that combine all these characteristics.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u333	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u334	[[Smile]] If we had deleted paragraph 8, it would have avoided this discussion! We must pay tribute to Mr Vigier's vigilance, because in this inventory to the Prévert which we have introduced, Mr Giraud, we lack the urban areas in difficulty as well as the ultramarine territories. Do we add them or not? That's the question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u335	Island regions are included in Article 174!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u336	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u337	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Mrs Nadia Essayan also applauds]] Minister, I know you like the territories; You have proved it many times. However, you know that often, when we look at legislation, it is only after that that we find that overseas has been forgotten. That is why I agree with Mr Vigier. I will vote in favour of his amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u338	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u339	We are withdrawing our amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u340	It is therefore only Mr Philippe Vigier's amendment No 460. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u341	I would like to make it clear to Mr Vigier that the ultramarine territories are well included in Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which expressly refers to island regions and sparsely populated territories. They are therefore all included, including Guyana.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u342	Guyana is not an island!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u343	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 490.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u344	I am defending this amendment on behalf of my colleagues Serville, Bello, Brotherson, Kéclard-Mondésir and Nilor. In the direct follow-up to the discussion that has just taken place, and in view of the legitimate sensitivity of our colleagues and the specific problems encountered in the overseas territories in the field of development, particularly with regard to infrastructure, it would seem appropriate to explain the particular attention given to them. We therefore ask, even if I know your answer in advance, to supplement paragraph 8 with the words "and in areas overseas".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u345	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u346	We agree that each territory is unique, dear colleague? As a result, each has its own geographical constraints. This is what the National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories will highlight: the singularity of each territory. When referring to geographical constraints, consideration is therefore given to the totality of geographical specificities. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u347	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u348	I repeat loudly that all French territories will be affected by the action of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, the metropolis as well as the overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u349	And Guyana is not an island!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u350	There's been a mess, there's got to be cohesion everywhere...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u351	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u352	I take note of your comments on the geographical specificity common to a number of people, but we are talking about social characteristics too. There are unemployment rates and health and education problems on the spot, which are incongruous with what is happening in metropolitan areas. I will not add any more, but the simple observation of the diagnoses and the balance sheets should make it possible to broaden the answer that has been given.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u353	I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 298.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u354	[[Exclaims and laughs on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I believe that, in the years to come, the key will be territorial equity. I, who am a very attentive exegete of the word of the majority, have noted that you distinguish between theoretical and real rights. Today, however, the main problem – and this is evident through the social crisis in our country – is the territorial divide, with territories that are increasingly abandoned, which have lost their public services, their post offices, their gendarmerie, etc. Some of your reforms are further aggravating the situation, undermining our courts, our schools, our high schools and, tomorrow, our hospitals. I therefore believe that it would be important to clarify paragraph 8 of the bill by providing that the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories "ensure true territorial equity, particularly between rural territories and metropolitan areas". [[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Our fellow citizens do not want to be more and more entangled in polluted, saturated metropolises, where the square metre is priceless, where it is impossible to raise children, and which are gangrenized by communityism and crime. In order for our peripheral territories to develop in the future, we must not leave them out of the way; We must give them the same opportunities as other territories. The precision we are proposing therefore seems to me to be fundamental.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u355	[[Smile]] An exegete wouldn't have said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u356	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u357	Mr Di Filippo, what would "true territorial equity" be? Would there be a false one and a real one? The tasks of the Agency are described in Article 2. On this occasion, we will speak of territorial fairness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u358	Like what!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u359	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u360	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u361	Mr Di Filippo, I understand your concern for territorial fairness. That is why the use of the term in Amendment No 295 to Article 2 seems to me to be more satisfactory than yours, since it puts this concept next to the provisions giving the ANCT a monitoring and warning mission with regard to the territorial impacts of decisions taken by ministries and State operators. For this reason, I would ask you, if you agree, to withdraw your amendment in favour of Amendment No 295, on which I will give a favourable opinion, even if I do not know who is behind it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u362	It's me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u363	In the context, it will be better.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u364	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u365	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Madam rapporteur, I had no doubt that there would be some people, particularly in the majority, who should have had difficulty understanding the notion of "territorial equity".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u366	It is the notion of "true equity" that is difficult to understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u367	For this reason, the explanatory memorandum provided some clarification. You could have bothered to read it! It explains that territorial equity corresponds to a degree of equality in access to public services: that one can see an ambulance arriving within six to nine minutes, not two or three hours; that our children can go to school without being two hours on the bus every day, spending more time out of their homes than workers or employees; that one can give birth near home without running the risk of it happening in the car or on the way to motherhood. That is true territorial equity. Of course, I understand that this concept is dealt with in Article 2, and I wish every success in Mr Nadia Hai's amendment, but it does not cost anything to raise this issue as early as Article 1. I see that, in substance, we have a point of agreement. For once, let's be precise! I repeat, this clarification does not cost anything: it will even benefit your text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u368	I have before me four amendments, No 378 corrected, 177 corrected, 367 corrected and 213, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 177 corrected and 367 corrected are identical. Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor to support Amendment No. 378 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u369	While we are going to create an agency dedicated to the cohesion of the territories, how can we imagine that its seat is, once again, located in Paris? It is a matter of consistency with the spirit of the law. We must send a very strong sign, as the President of the Republic mentioned last November, and I am convinced that many cities in our territories would be quite willing to host the new agency's headquarters. I think, for example, of Amiens, far from my constituency; This city has the double advantage of being not far from Paris and easily accessible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u370	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u371	The location of a public agency falls within the regulatory area. It is for this reason that I propose that the location of the seat of the future ANCT be determined by decree. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] Minister, our territories are waiting for government services to be exemplary in terms of deconcentration and decentralization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u372	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No 177, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u373	We have just discussed at great length the nature of the most difficult territories, which should be helped. Here we have the opportunity to send a strong sign by locating the headquarters of the agency outside the city of Paris. Indeed, we are not in a federal state but in a rather concentrated country, and our national capital is home to almost all the seats of the various structures – we can regret it, but that is how it is! It would therefore be an extremely strong sign to set the headquarters of this agency in the region, as my amendment provides. It is not necessarily a question of setting up this agency at the heart of rural life, because we understand that public officials may find it difficult to get there, even if it might be a way for them to become aware of the difficulties facing our territories. I have no doubt that there is a community ready to host the headquarters of such an agency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u374	Amiens!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u375	Towers!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u376	Dole! Aubenas!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u377	Saarburg!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u378	I call Mr Guy Bricout to support Amendment No. 367, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u379	This amendment, the adoption of which would be a very strong sign, is identical to that which Mr Sermier has just defended. It does not seem conceivable to us that the largest metropolis is the headquarters of an agency that is highly demanded by rural territories. Let me recall that on Wednesday, November 21, 2018, at the reception of the mayors at the Elysée on the sidelines of the congress of the mayors of France, the President of the Republic, questioned on the establishment of the headquarters of the future National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, had considered that to install it in the region, outside Paris, would be a very strong sign.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u380	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u381	This desire to locate the future agency outside Paris was confirmed by Sébastien Lecornu, Minister responsible for local authorities, in an interview with the Gazette des communes on 28 November 2018. Therefore, the amendment we are presenting is aimed at meeting the Government's commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u382	At least make us a promise, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u383	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 213.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u384	The Puy-en-Velay!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u385	Following on from the interventions of my colleagues, I propose that the headquarters of the ANC be "set up in one of the areas mentioned in Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union". Why not in Puy-en-Velay, in this beautiful departmental capital of the Haute-Loire, as one of my colleagues blew me off?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u386	[[Smile]] At Puy-en-Velay, that would be perfect!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u387	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u388	First of all, what really matters? What's most important? It is that the governance of the Agency is local, in the territories,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u389	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u390	...and that it be taken over by the prefect of the department. That's the most important thing! In the territories, it is with the prefect of department that people will consult the ANCT.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u391	Except when the prefecture services are only open on Tuesdays from 11 a.m. to 12 noon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u392	Keep the promise of the President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u393	On the other hand, this provision falls rather within the regulatory area, as the minister may explain to us. Finally, a number of establishments have branch offices in the regions. EPARECA has its headquarters in Lille, but ADEME, CEREMA and others have often opened offices throughout the country. What's important is that the state agencies get closer to you! Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u394	What about respect for the presidential word?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u395	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u396	I will try to explain to you that the National Cohesion Agency of the Territories is a deconcentrated agency in the territories. As I said earlier, there will not be a shop "National Cohesion Agency of the territories", but the prefects in each department, the CGET, which is already established in the territories, as well as the mass police stations, which the people of the mountains know perfectly,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u397	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u398	... be it in Gap, Grenoble, Clermont-Ferrand, Toulouse, Epinal or Besançon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u399	They're far away! Five hours' drive back and forth!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u400	The organization is therefore already deconcentrated. EPARECA has its headquarters in Lille, but it is also present in Lyon and Marseille. I'm not even talking about CEREMA, located at about 30 sites in France. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I repeat, the National Cohesion Agency of the Territories is deconcentrated. We will not implant it in one place, but everywhere in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u401	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u402	Minister, we are not talking to you about the antennae, present throughout the territory, but about the headquarters of the Agency. Just as you yourself said earlier, the headquarters of EPARECA is in Lille, the symbol would be to install the headquarters of the ANCT, with the management and key decision-making bodies, in the province. We understand that there are relays in each territory, with the prefects and all the antennae of the already existing structures, but you talk to us about the members when we talk about the head. [[Smile]] You tell us that the Agency is everywhere, but it's like sugar in the coffee: once you put it, you don't see it anymore and you don't know that there are any more!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u403	I hope the cup is in the territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u404	We must pay attention and send a sign: the head must be outside Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u405	We can't be clearer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u406	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u407	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group. – Mr. Philippe Vigier also applauds]] Public action and politics, Minister, are also symbolic acts and gestures. When the President of the Republic imagined that the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories could be established in a city other than the capital, as Guy Bricout recalled earlier, I am sure he wanted to make a strong political and symbolic gesture. I hope that at the end of the legislative process, Madam Minister, you will allow us to converge and identify a city that would embody the National Territorial Cohesion Agency. This is also politics: symbolic gestures and acts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u408	Mr Alain Perea has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u409	In the early 1990s, it was thought that the dysfunctions we deplored came from the École nationale d'administration, the ENA, based in Paris. Edith Cresson then had the great idea of transferring this school to Strasbourg. I started my studies and we were told that once the ENA was established in the region, everything would change. I have nothing against the writers, but I do not have the impression that they are acquiring a better knowledge of the territories in Strasbourg. You remind us regularly, ladies and gentlemen. Let the state services organize themselves as they please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u410	Not the way they want it! As we want!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u411	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LR group]] Stop making us believe that an establishment in the province would allow the Agency to be closer to the realities of the field! We know that's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u412	You betray the President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u413	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u414	I support Amendment No 378 as corrected by my colleague Marguerite Deprez-Audebert. Contrary to what you are saying, Mr. Perea, we must now send out strong signs of real decentralization,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u415	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u416	... while we are rather witnessing a recentralisation of the main services of the State and of the administration. By symbolically locating outside Paris the headquarters of this new agency so close to the territories,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u417	But there's no seat!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u418	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] ...we would send a very strong sign. Madam Minister, I hope you will listen to our voice, because it is worth it! Such a measure would make a lot of sense for our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u419	Mrs. Nathalie Sarles has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u420	The review in committee of Article 2 clarified the tasks to be assigned to the Agency. We have strengthened the consideration of the diversity of the territories, but we must focus on valuing their assets rather than stopping at their fragility. We have defined more precisely the objectives: access to public services and care, mobility, the revitalization of city centres and town centres, the ecological transition, the development of digital usages, housing. However, economic development must remain the pillar, not to say the main objective of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, because without economic development, there is no vitality or services! Because the mobilisation of European funds is a major challenge for communities lacking engineering, we have also clarified the role of the Agency in this area: it will provide human and financial support to local and regional authorities and their groups. We have also given him the role of coordinator of public policies. Again, the specificities of certain territories, for example in the mountains, have been largely taken into account. We will consider several amendments aimed at further clarifying the Agency's tasks at the risk, as in Article 1, of drawing up a list of competences, which would undermine the readability of its action. Traders, artisans, city centres and mobility, for example, have already been widely taken into account. The work in committee was consistent with the opinion of the Council of State. It seems to me that we have found the right balance, because the distinction between the task of supporting local and regional authorities in carrying out their projects and the task of implementing State policy has been clarified.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u421	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u422	As I pointed out earlier, the expectations of the people of the overseas countries and territories for territorial cohesion are immense. The agency to be set up will have to operate as close to the ground as possible, i.e. in direct partnership with elected officials, associations, the economic fabric and the business networks. I pay particular attention to the fact that the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories is very vigilant with regard to the demographic crisis in certain territories. In addition, Guadeloupe and Martinique both suffer from the ageing of their population, but also and above all from the exodus of their youth. The decline in our populations is of concern to all of us, because in the long run, the question of our identity, our dynamism and our ability to ensure the development and economic attractiveness of our islands will arise. That is why I will defend amendments to take demographics into account in the field of the tasks of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories. I hope you will hear the concern of the people of the overseas countries and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u423	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u424	Article 2 deals with the tasks of the Agency. I have tabled amendments on two specific issues, which have already been discussed in committee. The first is that almost half of the French population lives in air quality protection zones covered by PPPs – atmospheric protection plans – in two European disputes, one related to particles with a diameter of less than 10 microns – PM10 – and the other to nitrogen oxides – NOx. It is already known that ozone will also be an issue in the near future. The territories covered by the PPPs are quite large. There are large metropolises with engineering firms and able to be accompanied by study offices, and other smaller communities, orphaned by engineering accompaniment. It would therefore be good for air quality to be reflected among the Agency's missions. The second question, which we will discuss with several other colleagues, is that of recreational real estate and tourist areas, in which this real estate is a necessity – I am thinking in particular of the ski resorts, where the Pompidou plan of the 1970s and the 1970-1980s were truly a strength for the country. Fifty years later, we need a second breath, and the future agency should be concerned with these recreational real estate parks in terms of engineering.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u425	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u426	We live in France in a very beautiful country, rich in its diversity and that of its territories, but it is a shame to associate the words of "abandonment" or "deserts" with our rural territories and with our rural life. We make it a legend, and it's a shame. Indeed, I see many living, dynamic and equipped rural territories, where it is good to live, and elected officials who do not spend their time lamenting, but who roll back their sleeves and seek solutions. Minister, we will help them by providing them with a visible and effective tool: the ANC, which will help them achieve their many ambitions and ideas. The initial text of Article 2 laid down the tasks of the Agency, and the work carried out during the examination of the text in committee, in particular by the Working Republic Group, made it possible to propose several substantial improvements, whether to consult with the communities in accompanying their projects or to accompany housing policy, sustainable development or economic, commercial and artisanal development. The examination in committee allowed the diversity and specificities of the islands and mountain territories to be engraved in the marble and ensured the maintenance of the mass police stations. Opposite, the Agency drives and supports digital projects in the territories. It ensures that the entire territory is covered by mobile networks and very high-speed networks, and that the population is accompanied in usage. Finally, the Agency will submit an annual progress report to the Government and Parliament, which will be a guarantee of the equality and fairness of its action in the Territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u427	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u428	[[Riressur several benches in the LR group]] In this case, Madam Minister, we don't go with the back of her spoon! Judging by the interventions that we have just heard, it seems that it has been considered that, so far, nothing has been done and that the local and rural elected representatives have not had any ideas,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u429	Yes. Ms. Brulebois said that they had a lot of them and that they were going to be helped to implement them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u430	...but this agency will help raise the nation. This is a particularly ambitious programme! Article 2 refers to the definition and development of projects, an alert mission and the implementation of State policies, which are in addition to the various issues to be dealt with by the communities. It also refers to the control of works and shares, operations, acquisitions and even the management of funds and commercial leases, as well as accurate digital coverage. All of this ends with a sentence that leaves it to the Minister of Land Use Planning – you, the Minister – and the Minister responsible for Digital Affairs to put in place the means necessary to carry out all of these missions. Madam Minister, this is the time. We know that we cannot put everything in the law, but you have to give us your views on the equipment, the financing and the organisation of this agency, because we cannot vote on such an ambitious Article 2 with the combined resources of the three structures that are becoming this new agency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u431	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u432	We haven't done much in this area for about 50 years, and perhaps even since the industrial revolution – you just have to see, to convince yourself, the result of the races. Minister, I do not have much hope for what you are proposing, despite all the deep esteem I have for you. Indeed, I find it hard to believe, even though I know you are sincere. In any case, I prefer that Mrs Buzyn leaves the Government and goes to defend the European colours, because she has closed the most maternity hospitals. At least we won't have that problem. We managed, with Jean-Paul Mattei, to save a perception, after three months of fighting. Can you imagine? I was there today, and I saw the joy of all those who found their perception open. But it took three months to fight! I therefore wholeheartedly hope that we will succeed. However, it is a matter of concern: the Political and Parliamentary Review, our newspaper to all – we certainly don't read it every day, but Members of Parliament, senators and even some journalists read it, as well as, above all, the foreign press. So what was not my surprise to see this magazine headline: "Yellow vests": a revolutionary movement? I thought it was necessary to take a close look at this and I found in this issue the signatures of today's great commentators, who speak on television, like Bruno Cautrès or Vincent Lanier, first secretary general of the Syndicat national des journalistes – to name but a few. The only revolutionary act that took place was the yellow vest that I wore in the Chamber and that got me a fine of 1500 euros – which is an absolute shame (Exclaims on the benches of the LaREM group) – I wanted to know how this case would be mentioned. Not a word! It's not about it. So I wonder who to believe, and even to the House – you have nothing to do with it, Madam President. We are the National Assembly: if we want to be a little credible, how can we publish such documents?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u433	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u434	Let me return to the National Agency for Territorial Cohesion. Minister, your very ambitious Article 2 – and why not? –, I worry in several ways. First of all, in your inventory at the Prevert of the missions that will be entrusted to the Agency, you write that it contributes to the development of local and regional authorities. But it is not a question of contributing to it, but of accompanying it. The initiative comes first from the territories. So there is a mixture of the genres that are a bit special. You then write that the Agency carries out an alert and watch mission, in order to raise awareness and inform the administrations, but is this never done in connection with the local authorities? This is a time when it raises real questions. What I also found exciting in this article 2, is that the Agency ensures the coherence of the territories – I pass the details – through territorial coherence contracts. It's verbiage, but it's well said, and it makes you want to. In fact, however, it is not clear how all this will be organized and manifested, or, above all, how useful it will be. Finally, Jean-Marie Sermier pointed out very judiciously the risk that, in the end, it was the minister who had the hand. Minister, you are familiar with the territories and have sufficiently proven this knowledge through your past involvement, but we are not guaranteed for the future as to your department's knowledge of the territories, particularly rural ones. This is a legitimate concern in the drafting of the end of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u435	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 222.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u436	In the first sentence of paragraph 2, it is intended to replace the words "in conjunction with" with the words "under the control of". The title of this agency must not make us forget that the aim is to improve the development of local territories, not to deprive them of their development and development opportunities. It therefore seems to me necessary to provide for a guard in order to anticipate the possible abuse of such an agency within the communities. It should not be the intermediary of the State, the aim of which would be to deprive communities of their prerogatives in terms of land-use planning. The National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories should not be the government's missi dominici, designed to implement a political programme by ignoring local elected officials and their prerogatives. I take this opportunity to present the candidature of the city of Béziers to host the headquarters of the Agency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u437	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u438	I will let the minister respond to this amendment. It does not seem to me possible to place the ANCT under the control of the local authorities. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u439	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u440	There will be no control – neither in one direction nor in the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u441	I have before me three amendments, Nos 170, 209 and 338, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 209 and 338 are identical. Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor to support Amendment No. 170.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u442	This amendment proposes to insert, in the first sentence of paragraph 2, after the word "mission", the words "in principle free of charge". The Agency's mission is to provide engineering support, without financial consideration, to the communities that will seek it. Given the low financial capacity of some communities, it is important to provide access to all communities without the financial element being a discriminating factor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u443	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 209.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u444	[["Happy birthday! » on several benches of the LR group]] First of all, I wish my colleague Bony a happy birthday. Local authorities have, as you know, low incomes and financial means, with state allocations falling year by year. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to clarify that the ANCT's advisory and support missions to the territories must be carried out free of charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u445	Mr Jean-François Cesarini has the floor to support Amendment No. 338.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u446	This is an appeal amendment. The Agency's mission is to provide engineering support, without financial consideration, to the communities that will seek it. Given the limited financial capacity of some communities, it is important to establish the services of this agency that will be free of charge and those that will be paid for.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u447	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u448	These amendments are intended to impose free of charge all interventions by the ANCT in the context of its general mission. There is, of course, a free level, which is the 1st level of engineering, but we already know that not all EPARECA services are free. Can quality engineering be completely and systematically free when it is really high level?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u449	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u450	It's not safe. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] In addition, a problem could arise under European competition law in relation to State aid if we set a principle of free competition. I therefore ask that these amendments be withdrawn. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u451	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u452	The Government requests the withdrawal of these amendments as well as of all those whose purpose is the free provision of Agency services; This is a position that I have consistently defended both in the Senate and in your Committee on Sustainable Development. However, I would like to provide some clarification to remove any ambiguity on this subject of the free use of the ANC services by communities, which has been under discussion since the beginning of the discussion of this text. I want to be clear: the ANC will not ask for compensation from local authorities or groups that will request its intervention. This obviously has nothing to do with the use of available engineering resources: if the projects of the territories concerned require additional engineering, this will be done according to the usual rules of competition law, i.e. in compliance with the public procurement code, which, I would remind you, is largely governed by European Union law. As you know, the applicable competition legal framework takes into account the situation of the communities, the so-called in house services, the rules on subsidies and participations, the rules on the use of the DPV – the political allocation of the city –, the DSIL – the allocation of support for local investment –, the DETR – the provision of equipment for rural areas – and the FNADT – the national fund for planning and development of the territory –, whether or not there is a competitive private activity, whether or not there is a lack of private supply of the various types of engineering, etc. – so many cases already regulated by the law and that we do not think it desirable to transcribe here, at the risk of changing the existing balances. Similarly, when EPARECA takes control of a commercial real estate restructuring operation at the request of a community, it does not charge it for any services. On the other hand, these operations require the search for co-financing from different partners in order to bring the projects to a successful conclusion. These will benefit from the participation of the communities concerned, but also from the ANRU, the region, the ERDF – European Regional Development Fund – etc. The reference in article 6, paragraph 10, concerning the remuneration of these services concerns only the fees currently claimed by EPARECA from its own subsidiaries, since it is the manager. We have planned the same for the ANCT, which will have to exploit the restructured commercial assets tomorrow through subsidiaries, with the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. You see it, no express remuneration, but the need, within the framework of a partnership, to enter into financial agreements. The Government therefore requests the withdrawal of these amendments or, in the absence of such amendments, issues an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u453	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u454	The amendments tabled by my colleagues have been retained. At this early stage of the session, the Minister's comments did not definitively inform us of the relationship between the Agency and the communities. This is something very factual. You told us that a number of operations would be in house, i.e. there would be no competition. As you know, a number of structures in this country, which you care about as much as I do, are in house. But you said that this in house would be subordinated to the fact that there is no competition. However, all the tasks listed in Article 2, such as the tasks of implementing operations, the management of commercial funds with the possibility of acquiring them, come into direct competition with private structures or companies which can operate everywhere in France, in rural or urban areas. We do not blame you, rather we are looking for a way to shed light on the debate in order to avoid any legal risk at a later stage. Do you think that this kind of intervention really corresponds to in house, and that this structure will not be competitive with private agencies?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u455	Mr Jean-François Cesarini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u456	Having satisfied me with the minister's explanations, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u457	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-11-O1172.u458	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Following the discussion of the proposal for a law establishing a National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories and the proposal for an organic law on the appointment of the Director General of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories. The meeting is adjourned.
