ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the first part of the finance bill for 2020 (No. 2272, 2301).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u2	Under the conditions laid down by the Conference of Presidents, we come to Article 36 on the assessment of the levy made on the revenue of the State in respect of France's participation in the budget of the European Union (No 2301, Annex 45); No 2303, Volume IX). The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u3	I am very pleased to be here with you today to ask you, on behalf of the Government, to authorize the levy on State revenue for the benefit of the European Union. Exercise is ritual. This year, however, it has a particular dimension. On the one hand, this is the last budget covered by the multi-annual financial framework 2014-2020, which gives us the opportunity to take stock of these seven years; On the other hand, the first budget will be voted on by the new European Parliament. He is expected to stop his position this week. The revenue levy for 2020 is estimated at €21.3 billion, which is almost stable compared to the amount of €21.4 billion set out in the original 2019 Finance Act. I still hear too often – like you, no doubt – statements about Europe that would cost France, Europe that would bring nothing back to the French. I would like to take this opportunity to return to the foundations of this contribution which you are asked to approve. This contribution, I assume, is first of all a contribution of solidarity: solidarity with the poorest regions of Europe, solidarity with the professions which are undergoing major upheavals due, in particular, to the first manifestations of climate change – I am thinking of farmers, fishermen, wine growers – solidarity with the poorest, those who are furthest from employment, those who do not have access to mobility or training. It is the honour of France, the founding country, among others, of the European project, to be what is called a "net contributor", that is, a Member State which pays to the European budget a little more than it receives. Moreover, aware of the fact that Europe brings our country far beyond the funds it collects, we do not recognize ourselves in these accounting categories which oppose the Member States more than they bring them together around a common project. When some of our partners – and friends, however – want to limit the next multi-annual budget to "1.00% of the wealth we produce" – which we produce thanks to this large internal market of 500 million consumers – we call for a budget commensurate with the ambitions we set ourselves at the European Council. We want a sovereign Europe that defends its values in the world, ensures the safety of its citizens and invests in the future, while following a clean path in environmental and social matters. When some – sometimes the same, and always our partners and friends – oppose old and new policies, we answer that we must first invest in space, defence, digital, security, cohesion and agriculture, in order to preserve our sovereignty. When some ask for discounts again and again, even as the United Kingdom is about to leave the Union – because that is, I believe, what our British friends intend to do – we are calling for new, clearer and fairer ways of financing the budget. The last European Council, which took place at the end of last week, showed this: there are those who want an ever larger Europe without increasing their share of common expenditure, and there are those who want a strong Europe, with a budget that allows us to face competition from China and the United States. We're part of, that won't surprise you, of the second. Of course, we will not accept an agreement for the years 2021-2027 at any price, because we will be accountable to you. When the Government comes back to this House next year, we will have to tell you why this budget is good for Europe and good for France. There is no solidarity without responsibility. The conditions that the President of the Republic recalled at the European Council on Friday are very clear. First of all, we want the common agricultural policy, the CAP, to be maintained at its present level, not by conservatism but by consistency. We cannot ask our farmers to transform their productive model by reducing the support we provide them, both in terms of income and investment capacity. A strong CAP is the condition of our food sovereignty; An investment CAP is just as essential. We also want to make the multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027 the first European ecological transition budget. How can we justify to the younger generations that only a quarter of European expenditure contributes to the objective of combating global warming? To become a carbon neutral continent in 2050 requires resources and investments. We therefore call for 40% of this budget to contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, protecting the environment and biodiversity, and combating pollution. We want this budget to be financed by new own resources, in all senses of the word: own to the European budget, own because it is sustainable. These resources must be consistent with our political objectives, including environmental ones. We are talking about the carbon tax at borders, the tax on non-recycled plastic and the contribution to the ETS market, i.e. the carbon market. It is not a question of increasing the tax burden on Europeans, but of charging those who enter the single market when they enjoy more favourable conditions than our own producers, and thus of fighting unfair competition. We assume to be net contributors, but we are not naive contributors. Solidarity must be accompanied by conditions. When Member States engage in social or fiscal dumping that is detrimental to their neighbours, is it right that they continue to receive so much from the Structural Funds? When we have doubts about respect for the rule of law in some countries, can we not use fiscal leverage to encourage them to return to the right path? Our conviction is that the European budget is above all a political instrument. The Union must carry out a project of social convergence around the European pillar of social rights, and our budget must contribute to that. Thus, Europe could have a rule that a full-time European cannot earn an income below the poverty line. To state it this way is simple; putting such a rule into practice will require work. The Union must also be a community of rights and values, and our budget can contribute to that. This is the position of the President of the Republic and the Government. We devote all our energy to it. I think I can also count on the support of national representation. This contribution that you must make today is also for the French that we are mobilizing. When I hear some people say in France that the European budget does not benefit our country, he takes the desire to invite them to join me in the tour de France that I have undertaken since I took office a little more than six months ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u4	Shit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u5	I am going to meet the elected representatives, the project promoters, to observe how European funds are actually deployed in our territories. I want to tell them to come with me to Douaisis, where Europe finances the energy renovation of corons, food aid for the poorest, and the reintegration of young dropouts furthest from employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u6	But all this is with France's money!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u7	In the Douaisis, did you go to see how the hospital's emergencies work?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u8	I want to invite them to the Grand Pic Saint-Loup, where Europe finances the public services house, a place to start businesses like FabLab, and local shops. I want to take them to Thionville, where Europe funds cutting-edge research in the field of welding, as well as collaborative workspaces for cross-border auto-entrepreneurs. I want to tell them to come to Marseille, where European funds help to think of tomorrow's Mediterranean city thanks to the thermal renovation of housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u9	All this is with the money of the French again and again! We pay twice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u10	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] With the French money? Of course. But because these are European funds, the projects carried out in Marseilles are pooled with those carried out in Palermo and Barcelona. Because it is European funds, the materials, technologies and innovations that allow the renovation of the corons of the mining basin, in the Douaisis, are shared with other places in Europe where similar programmes take place.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u11	And all this costs us twice as much!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u12	And because these are European funds, the Erasmus Pro programme allows young apprentices in Thionville to train in a region other than the one where they were born. I'll see what's in place soon. It is sometimes the first time in their lives that these young people leave our country; They thus learn to discover what is happening on the other side of our borders, sometimes artificial. In this way, they have great hope for the best possible integration into the labour market. I could multiply the examples on the mobilisation of European funds, in line with our national policies, with the national strategy to combat poverty, with the rural agenda we have just announced and with the "City-City Action" plan. Of course, some will say, perhaps here, perhaps today, that it's too much, that it's not enough or that it's too complicated. Not enough? Maybe. The Government is fully mobilized not only to defend our envelopes in budget negotiations, but also to improve our rates of return on different policies. I would like to pay particular tribute to Frédérique Vidal's work in improving French performance in European research programmes – a subject that, as you know, was of particular interest to me when I had the chance to sit on your benches. Too complicated? That's right. This is well established thanks to the work of the Court of Auditors, which I asked for when I was a member of the Committee on Finance and which was presented to you on 22 May. I also read about the work of your colleagues Liliana Tanguy and Pierre-Henri Dumont, as well as Senator Colette Mélot, on simplifying access to European funds. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] But, rather than continuing to debate the responsibilities of each other, the regions and the state, let us go around the table to find concrete, precise, operational solutions that will simplify the lives of the beneficiaries and speed up the consumption of funds. It's more than time. Why, for example, do the trainers of the local Douaisis mission spend more time producing proofs in paper form than accompanying young dropouts? This is a procedure that Europe does not impose, since in Belgium it is much simpler! Why can the agents of the community of communes of the Grand Pic Saint-Loup not be able to enter in the Osiris software the data necessary for the deposit of the LEADER projects – link between actions to develop the rural economy? The current procedure slows down payments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u13	Come to Le Havre, you will see the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u14	We must put an end to these red tape so that the contribution that you are voting here in Parliament and the budgets that are voted in Strasbourg reach their beneficiaries, to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u15	You've been in power for almost three years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u16	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Let us stop thinking that Europe is responsible for all these complexities. They come from our home, we are responsible, and you can on my commitment to move forward. Nor should we waste time jointly defining the priorities of the next budget programming: the ecological and digital transition, the support of our SMEs, innovation and research, the preservation of our heritage. Together with territorial cohesion minister Jacqueline Gourault, we started work with the regions in July to avoid further delays in the preparation of the new phase 2021-2027.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u17	What have you done for two years?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u18	Those we experienced at the beginning of the 2014-2020 period proved extremely unfortunate. They are detrimental to us in the negotiations: how can I justify that we need to pursue European policies when I cannot show that projects have been completed or that the funds have been consumed? My colleagues are telling me that we could cut a quarter of the French envelope, since we never consume more than half of it! And it must be admitted that they are not completely wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u19	Two years of inaction!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u20	I cannot, as Secretary of State for European Affairs, negotiate increased budgets if they are not consumed. It's a question of credibility. I know our country is on average, but we can do much better. Together, members of the Government and elected from the field, the State and the regions, we must mobilize to ensure that these funds reach the French, to finance our agriculture, our businesses, our research, our young people. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is for Europeans and for the French that I ask you to authorise the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u21	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u22	A few months now separate us from last spring's renewal of the European Parliament, following elections marked by the rebound in European participation. While the resulting political configuration is more complex and less stable than during the previous parliamentary term, and Euroscepticism has progressed in some countries, the majority of European citizens have shown their commitment to the European Union, its achievements and its capacity for progress. The purpose of this afternoon's debate is precisely to inform our vote on France's contribution to the financing of the Union's policies. It is up to us, as representatives of the nation, to agree to the levying of this contribution from our national revenues. As well as Article 1 of our finance bills, which guarantees consent to tax, Article 36 of the PLF for 2020, which is devoted to the revenue levy – SRP – for the benefit of the European Union, is also of political significance. We have to assess the amount of this levy which, in each PLF, is only an indicative order of magnitude: its precise actual amount will depend in fact on the rules of resources laid down by the Treaties and the Union's budgetary commitments, as well as on the forthcoming European budgetary debates. We also note the importance of the annual vote of the National Assembly in favour of France's material participation in the European project. This vote is in no way an isolated and unusual matter in French parliamentary work. The National Assembly's consideration of the Union's action is daily and constant. French and European law are highly intertwined and evolve with increasing reciprocal influences – we see this during the examination of our national texts. Parliamentary evaluation of our public policies, even when they are far removed from the competences of the European institutions, becomes more acute when it connects with the principles and practices of our European neighbours. Finally, the French Members are by building parliamentarians who are attentive to the European Union. The Committees on Foreign Affairs and European Affairs provide an observation and enlightenment of European debates in order to make the voice of the National Assembly heard in Brussels and Strasbourg. The many European resolutions that we adopt are a sign of the keen interest of French parliamentarians in European issues. The Committee on European Affairs is thus preparing to debate a motion for a resolution on the reform of the right of asylum, on the initiative of our colleagues Ludovic Mendes and Marietta Karamanli. The reception and transit procedures must scrupulously respect the values of solidarity and the defence of human rights that form the basis of European integration and at the heart of Europe as we wish. As for the Finance Committee, it will soon be involved in the discussion and vote on a European motion for a resolution aimed at increasing French pressure on the draft transposition of the last banking supervision package, Basel 3, which, as it stands, could serve our economic interests for the benefit of our international competitors, particularly North Americans. On 8 October, the National Assembly finally adopted a resolution, the first signatory of which is President Ferrand, following the constitution of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly. As its title indicates, the resolution aims to promote a Franco-German friendship in the service of Europe. To address our debate today more precisely, the French Members are also interested in the European Union from a budgetary point of view. This debate is remarkably informed by the reports on the revenue levy submitted by our colleagues Xavier Paluszkiewicz, on behalf of the Committee on Finance, Pascal Brindeau, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and Alexandre Holroyd, on behalf of the Committee on European Affairs. I also note that the yellow budget on financial relations with the Union has been put online by the Government within time frames that have enabled the Parliament to learn about it and to exploit it. I particularly thank the Secretary of State for this, for this is the first time in a long time, and I am committed to the respect of Parliament. The revenue levy for the Union in the PLF for 2020 amounts to EUR 21.3 billion, an increase of approximately EUR 100 million over the amount planned for 2019. The executions of previous years, however, invite us to be cautious about the value of its forecasts: in 2018, the voted amount of 19.9 billion was over-executed to the tune of 20.6 billion, while in 2017, we found a strong under-execution of 2.5 billion euros – only 16.3 billion were actually transferred, instead of the 18.7 initially adopted. The actual SRP depends on the balance of the European budget for 2020, which is currently under discussion. It also depends on the effective mobilisation of funds for the corresponding expenditure, in a context where the SRP we need to provide is the last in a seven-year multi-annual framework. In other words, as the European Parliament and the European Commission renew themselves, a new seven-year multi-annual financial framework, from 2021 to 2026, is under negotiation. The future revenue levies that we will have to allow will therefore reflect the new priorities for action of the European Union in the medium-, if not long-term, between supporting traditional policies and supporting the new needs of the Union, in particular with regard to migration and environmental policies. This reminder has a merit: under the accounting envelope of the SRP for the benefit of the European Union, in reality, the contribution to a political project in full renewal is emerging. I am convinced that at this crucial moment, France must weigh its weight to ensure that the priorities of this political project fully correspond to the expectations of French citizens, who are deeply European citizens. This ambition is legitimate for several reasons. Together with Germany, France is the heir to the ambition of European integration, with its pioneering values. As President Maurice Leroy wrote last year in the report for the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, now assured by our colleague Pascal Brindeau, the European Union is much more than a cheque book: it is a union of values. France must play its part in defending these values. This legitimacy, however, is not only an acquired right, a birthright in a way. France continues today to carry the European project. If you will allow me to set aside the United Kingdom, France and Germany are the two main net contributors to the European budget. Despite the limits of this cash flow logic, this means that France is mobilising more resources for the Union than it derives from it a financial benefit stricto sensu, in terms of public money. This net balance oscillates around 7 billion euros, according to the calculation methods. Finally, the European Union's political project is also an economic project. However, according to the latest estimates, France is the main driver of growth in the euro area in 2019. Its economic dynamism, largely due to the measures we have adopted since the beginning of the quinquennium, is superior to that of our main European partners and draws them up. France draws the euro area, while calling for a real budget to be set up to absorb economic shocks and smooth the effects of economic conditions. More generally, I am in favour of the fact that France's influence should be exploited, as far as possible, for its benefit, as long as our country supports the implementation of policies favourable to the deepening and successful conclusion of the Union. To stick to the budgetary theme we are dealing with, we must, in particular, promote a number of reforms. First of all, I am thinking of the recasting of the Union's own resources system in a way that is more favourable to the tax integration of the Member States. New resources are at hand: why not use the product of the digital services tax that we have adopted in France, and who could be swarming? Why not rely on the allocation of part of the quota auction revenues from the European carbon market? In this regard, the development of carbon pricing for new sectors not yet covered by the European carbon market would be relevant, in order to encourage the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and investment in innovative green technologies. More promising and more important, we must now seriously consider introducing carbon rights at the entry of our single market. We need to protect our economies, increase our community resources and foster sustainable and local production.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u23	This must be included in the treaties!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u24	Finally, we need to flatten the rebates on national contributions. By reaching EUR 5 billion a year, they undermine the readability of national contributions to the European budget, and above all give citizens a dismal image of the relations between the States and the European Union. These discounts are of various kinds. The tree that hides the forest is of course the British discount, but flat-rate discounts are also made in the Netherlands, Sweden, Austria and Denmark, and reduced call rates of VAT are in force in the Netherlands, Germany and Sweden. As I said, we are at the forefront of the negotiations for the future multi-annual financial framework – MFF. As a basis for discussion, the Commission proposes a MFF of EUR 1279 billion in commitment appropriations over the period 2021-2027, i.e. 1.11% of the EU's gross national income to 27 members. This means, overall, maintaining the effort in relation to the current MFF. However, it is difficult to predict the outcome of these discussions, and vigilance remains to be exercised. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] I would have managed to reach the conclusion of this presentation on Europe, not to mention Brexit. For large silversmiths, this start will cost the European Union between 12 and 14 billion euros a year. Without new own resources and equivalent budgets, the French share of this budget, which corresponds to the SRP, could therefore increase significantly. But we must not reduce our debates to the question of Brexit, to its cost and opportunity. Rather, we must try to see, in the mirror of everything that the United Kingdom is about to lose when it leaves the European Union, everything that we have an interest in preserving and promoting within it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u25	The next speaker is Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u26	How proud, ladies and gentlemen, to be before you to discuss these European subjects! What a pride to observe this European construction – imperfect, certainly – which gives its European children the platform that this exercise allows me to have! I would like to recall the importance of the many debates on Europe that are going back to our discussions on Article 36 of the draft finance law for 2020, devoted to the levy from State revenue on France's participation in the European Union budget. That has been said, our contribution to the European budget in 2020 is estimated at € 21.3 billion. It is down from the initial financial law for 2019, where the contribution was estimated at € 21.4 billion. As Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance for European Affairs, I would like to give you some background in connection with this revenue levy. I am still somewhat upset by the fact that national representation does not devote enough time to this, whereas this budget is, of course, indirectly the fourth budgetary mission of the State. That is why we must certainly establish a permanent relationship between our national institutions and the European institutions, especially since it is the European Parliament that votes all expenditure when we vote here only on revenue. The European institutions are currently working together to reach agreement on the subject. The Commission proposes, inter alia, to increase the appropriations for Horizon 2020, the European Programme for Research and Innovation and the appropriations for cohesion policy. Regrettably, we must note that spending has been ageing and resources have been reduced, and we must ask ourselves about the margins to be put in place to find new resources. Again this year, I would like to draw the Assembly's attention to the delicate exercise of forecasting the amount of the French contribution to the European Union: it depends on other resources from the European budget, in particular VAT recoveries. An additional point of vigilance is that we will enter the last year of the multiannual financial framework within two months, with the European funds allocated to cohesion policy having to be disbursed significantly in view of the delays at the beginning of the programming process. External events are also likely to upset the Government's expectations. The risks associated with leaving the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland without agreement are obviously in all senses. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) had warned about the negative consequences of such an assumption for the growth of the Union. The Government has been working to anticipate potential difficulties by passing the bill enabling it to take by order measures to prepare for withdrawal from the United Kingdom. Of course, I can only welcome once again this anticipation by the executive, which has not squandered on the means to recruit additional customs officers, nor on the efforts to raise awareness among companies. The deadline is close: October 31st is tomorrow! With regard to Brexit, I would like to pay tribute to the talent of the Commission's negotiators and to the colossal work they have done in recent days. The agreement concluded on Thursday between the European Commission and the United Kingdom provides for compliance with financial commitments, a transitional period until December 2020 and specific customs regulations for Northern Ireland. I could sum up the latter by saying that they will allow both the UK's exit from the customs union and the maintenance of Northern Ireland both in the European Union and in the United Kingdom. This is a good way to refer this major stumbling block back to future negotiations. Even if we know that an agreement is preferable to the lack of agreement, it must be noted that Brexit will not end by immobilizing – worse, rotting community life. I would also like to mention another very interesting subject, which observers have not stressed enough: the new version of the draft political declaration setting out the framework for future relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom, which the European negotiators and Boris Johnson have just drafted. Even under Theresa May, we could not observe a relationship as intimate as that mentioned in this text, where the Prime Minister turns out to be "a convinced European", going so far as to call the United Kingdom a "European country par excellence". It has not escaped anyone that the British wield the art of contradiction as anyone. These declarations of love are certainly motivated by the United Kingdom's desire to remain in the European Defence Agency, that British universities continue to receive European funds, and that an air agreement remain. But in reality, ladies and gentlemen, through these fine words and these chimeral speeches, the British have only one thing on the line: an agreement with Norway, crowned with an exemption from the payment of customs duties to the European Union. That's the big deal. Should we resolve this? Do we have to weigh all the risks? The British could put on the table the map of social and tax dumping, and this threat could force us to comply with their demands. In any event, it will take a "no" or "yes" from the British to paraphrase the Secretary of State. With regard to the ongoing negotiations on the Multiannual Financial Framework for the period 2021-2027, several sectoral agreements have been concluded, but major issues remain to be addressed. I am thinking in particular of the CAP: the Commission has proposed a reduction in the amount of appropriations allocated, to which France is opposed. I very much hope that this pillar of European policy can be preserved. This new MFF is also an opportunity to finance the Union's other priorities: defence, the protection of external borders, the climate. I support France's request to devote a larger share of the European budget – at least 40%, as opposed to 25% in the Commission's project – to climate and biodiversity policies. The Commission has made proposals on the question of own resources. It relaunched the project of a common consolidated corporate tax base, more commonly known as ACCIS, which would create a one-stop shop across the Union for corporate tax returns. It also suggested that 20% of the revenue from the emissions trading scheme should be allocated to the European budget. Finally, it calls for the creation of a contribution on non-recycled plastic packaging. The adoption of this own resources package would reduce France's future contribution by EUR 300 million. It would also be a strong signal to strengthen the European project that a larger part of the budget is based on European resources. Let us remember that national contributions represent 72% of the Union's revenue in 2019, which is far too high a ratio we need to work on. Important simplification efforts have been suggested with regard to the Structural Funds. In particular, the Commission proposes to relax the number of levels of control. It seems essential to me that France supports this approach and seizes this opportunity to simplify existing rules at national level. In particular, it is essential to put an end to the fragmentation of programmes and measures, which contributes to the inefficiency of the latter to the detriment of the beneficiaries. In the spring of the evaluation, my work focused specifically on the Structural Funds and their management. The question of the management of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development had arisen in particular: the current system, which involves both the State and the regions, is clearly not satisfactory. I stressed in my report the importance of moving quickly on this issue to avoid any delay in the allocation of appropriations – this seems to me to be crucial. The Commission has made proposals to simplify and centralise the management of the two pillars of agricultural policy. I strongly encourage the French authorities to seize the subject and act quickly. As regards the European Regional Economic Development Fund (ERDF) and the European Social Fund (ESF), the problem is different: it is more than necessary to stabilise the architecture of their management in order to facilitate the processing of cases and the allocation of funds at the beginning of the next programming. Finally, more generally, it seems to me essential that the State should establish a national framework for the use of funds in order to ensure an effective leverage effect and uniform allocation of funds within the territory. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am campaigning for more legible European finances but also for a restructured European budget. Let us update our national and European software to finally see Europe as a reservoir of savings. As Special Rapporteur, it goes without saying that I will defend with force, enthusiasm and conviction the idea that there can be no real European ambition without a resized budget. Europe has a great future, not just a past. It offers the only horizon for integration and the future for which we must fight. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the light of this summary presentation, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to pass clause 36 of this finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u27	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u28	2020 will be the last year of the European Multiannual Financial Framework 2014-2020. Today we are debating the €21.3 billion levy presented by the Government. Last week's European Council marked the start of negotiations for the next multiannual financial framework, 2021-2027, which gives a special focus to our debate today. The discussions, which are expected to be difficult, will be particularly important. The stakes are indeed crucial because Europe is at a crossroads. News puts Brexit at the heart of our debate. The OECD estimates that this political tragedy will result in a three-year loss of GDP growth for the UK and about 0.5 percentage points for the rest of Europe. This exit will also leave a gap of 10 to 15 billion euros net in the EU budget. This is rebuffing the cards of a negotiation that has already been made very difficult by our economic differences – I will come back to that. In this context, we cannot support any enlargement of the European Union. Relations between states on the European continent are not meant to be reduced to a binary alternative: inside or outside. It is a multipolar Europe, made up of concentric and interpenetrated circles, more integrated here and more loose, which we must collectively reinvent. It is also a crucial moment because it is an opportunity to discuss the main priorities that we want to see assumed by the European Union. I would point out that the SRP for the benefit of the European Union is the fourth state budget, after those of defence, school education and research and higher education. The question of the sovereignty of the Union seems to me to be the right line in the debate. But our economic differences are catching up and becoming terrible weaknesses. The size of the next multi-annual European budget is the first subject of debate. The European Commission proposes a budget equal to 1.11% of the GDP of the 27 Member States, i.e. EUR 1279 billion between 2021 and 2027. The European Parliament would like 1.3%, or 220 billion euros more, while the Germans, supported by other northern countries, do not want to exceed 1% of the Union's GDP, or 125 billion euros less. On this difficult question, I am not sure that the lack of ambition is, in the current geopolitical context, a good answer. Other questions seem more relevant to me: what do we do with this money? What are our priorities? Is the money well spent? It is a macroeconomic reality, of which I denounce the harmful character for several months now, which underlies this thorny debate: the German and French fiscal policies are divergent. Between the German surpluses and the French deficits, over the duration of a quinquennium, accumulated 400 billion euros of difference. Our growth trajectories also diverge: 1.3% to 1.4% for France in the coming years, a small figure that we can rejoice at, however, against 0.5% and 0.6% for Germany – if trade wars, which affect our neighbours more strongly than we do, do not worsen by then, and let alone the differences in the nature of our industrial tissues and demographics. This tension is being expressed in the European Central Bank, where collectively deciding our single monetary policy is becoming increasingly difficult. And they're not just expert debates! Our ability to weigh on the debate quickly reaches its limits, as our credibility is undermined by our disappointing budgetary results. I can understand that the Germans are sometimes annoyed when they hear the French Minister of Economy and Finance, in our state of public finances, asking them to spend more to support growth. So we must probably remind the Germans that they benefit more from their membership of the single market than the others. According to the results of a study cited by the European Commission, the German economy benefits from European integration of around EUR 120 billion a year, compared with about EUR 60 billion for France. But we must above all restore our public accounts so that our voice weighs with its full weight in the negotiations. The idea of increasing own resources, proposed by the European Commission, leaves me sceptical. The term "own resources" is nice, but it is a way of referring to taxes: tax on non-recyclable plastic – which could raise €7 billion –, carbon tax at the borders of the Union, etc. Why not, provided that we do not increase the tax burden on households and businesses! As in the case of inter-communities, any creation of a European tax must be accompanied by an equivalent reduction in the national tax burden. Delays in payment at the beginning of the 2014-2020 multi-annual year may require more than expected funding. The Government's forecast is EUR 100 million lower than last year; Can you assure us, Madam Secretary of State, that the amount actually executed will not significantly exceed the €21.3 billion planned? I would also point out that, of this sum, some EUR 3.2 billion comes from a levy on our VAT revenues. This element, which is not well known, is still involved in the disposal of this resource, which will be aggravated by the mechanism of compensation of the housing tax for departments and EPCIs, public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation, adopted last week. In the long run, this may be problematic: the needs of the state are unchanged or even increasing, but state taxes are falling, and no one explains how this complicated equation at least can be solved. But the most important issue of course remains the use of the funds allocated to the Union. The defence of European sovereignty seems to me to be a good guide in trying to reach consensus more often at European level. It is certainly to be welcomed that, in future programming, 25% of the European budget is devoted to policies with a positive impact on the climate. Our generational responsibility is engaged. This choice seems to me to be largely consensual. But a good environmental policy is also a good agricultural policy – both are inseparable. The most important subject of this budget, from the point of view of France, must be the preservation of the CAP. The draft multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027 puts the share of the European budget devoted to the CAP below 30% – in the last framework, 2014-2020, it had already been reduced to 40%. This decline is not acceptable. We must preserve the means to defend European agriculture and the French model against the world. This is a matter of food, health, environmental sovereignty and free choice for our citizens, who are increasingly demanding in this area – and they are right. The CAP is also the oldest and most integrated policy in the Union. It must be preserved, not only in order to maintain the appropriations, but because the quality of the CAP is the quality of our environmental policy. The European Union must also provide itself with the means to effectively influence international trade, at a time when our cheese and wine producers, to name but a few, have been subject to additional customs duties. Similarly, in order to protect its financial and economic sovereignty, the European Union will have to make adjustments, when transposing it, to the Basel III agreement concluded in 2017. As regards security, we welcome the European Commission's proposal to increase by more than 2.5 the proportion of the budget devoted to controlling migratory flows at the borders of the Union, which would be increased from EUR 13 billion to EUR 35 billion for the period 2021-2027. This is progress, but we need to go even further as we leave very low. To devote 5% of the European budget to the defence of our borders is not unreasonable: this would amount to a doubling of appropriations. If they do not reach the peak of 2015, immigration problems remain glaring and of particular concern. In terms of defence, we must certainly be more ambitious than we are today. Some time ago, I proposed to finance a European aircraft carrier. Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, the president of the CDU, had the same idea. Perhaps we could revive it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u29	That's absurd!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u30	Finally, as the Secretary of State said, it would be unreasonable to reduce our financial contribution to the European Space Agency. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] The European Union must therefore be given the means to protect and develop the sovereignty of our common continent. This means choosing our strategic areas of intervention – ecology, agriculture, international trade, security and immigration, defence and space, to name but the most important. In short, we must assume that more Europe is also more budget for Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u31	Mr Pascal Brindeau, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u32	We are looking at Article 36 of the draft finance law for 2020, which evaluates the levy from State revenue for the benefit of the European Union budget. This amount is expected to be €21.33 billion for 2020. Although not yet stabilised, since the procedure for drawing up the Union budget will not be completed until the end of November, the SRP for 2020 is part of the multiannual financial framework established for the period 2014-2020. This budget entry comes – that's nothing to say – in a context that is at least uncertain. On the one hand, economic developments and the slowdown in growth in the euro area, which declined to 1.2% in the second quarter of 2019, raise fears that a new major global crisis will emerge. A budget, and in particular that of a union of 500 million citizens, should have as its object, among other things, to be able to cope with it. However, the weakness of the European budget, with its own resources too modest, would not counter the effects of a possible global crisis on Europe's economic growth. On the other hand, the lack of certainty about the UK's exit from the European Union weighs heavily on the budgetary equation. The United Kingdom is, behind Germany, the second largest net contributor to the European Union budget. The loss of revenue resulting from Brexit's potential is in addition to EUR 3 billion in customs duties collected by the United Kingdom. It is therefore a total differential of more than EUR 10 billion that should be included in the future multiannual financial framework. We will, of course, be careful to ensure that a possible agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union includes funding for the programmes in which that country will participate not only after it has left the Union, but also a possible customs agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union, which cannot be unfavourable to the Member States of the Union. Unfortunately, the last rebounds in the House of Commons on Saturday are not to clarify the situation. We can therefore question the level of progress in the British parliamentary procedure on Brexit on 31 October: it may not yet be concluded when the date of Brexit is reached. The British case also raises the question of the participation of third States in European programmes. France wished to state as a principle that, for each of them, financial returns to a third State could not be greater than the latter's contributions. Nevertheless, the legal framework for such a provision remains to be determined. Notwithstanding these remarks, the levy for 2020 appears to be stable, amounting to EUR 21.33 billion, against an initial entry for 2019 of EUR 21.44 billion, to which, however, EUR 249 million should be reduced in the light of the amending budgets adopted by the European Union in 2019. If we look into the future multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027, an increase in the French contribution is likely. Whatever the effects of Brexit, the future priorities for action set by the European Commission will not have to result in reductions in intervention in the historical and structural policies of the European Union. Like the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, I am thinking of the common agricultural policy: France cannot accept the prospect of a further reduction in this policy which is vital for our continent. In addition, the determination of the new financial framework must finally make it possible to eliminate the discounts, the fruits of the European summit in Fontainebleau in 1984 and the famous "I want my money back", "I want my money back", the source of all national budgetary selfishness. Moreover, since 2002, some EU countries have benefited from rebates, i.e. a limitation on the value of their additional contribution from the UK correction. The new financial framework will also need to reform and modernise the EU's own resources in order to increase them. The European Commission has put forward three proposals, which we believe should be supported. This is a contribution on plastic waste produced by States and non-recycled, on which there seems to be a consensus; a common consolidated corporate tax base, which always runs counter to the rule of unanimity in the Council of the European Union in the field of taxation; and a contribution to the carbon trading scheme, a common instrument to combat climate change that is moving in the right direction and is expected to emerge, thanks in particular to work undertaken by France and Germany. The possible introduction of new own resources could also be an opportunity to bring forward the reflection on the taxation of GAFAs, because we are many here to think that the creation of such a tax on a national scale is only a matter of the announcement effect. Finally, we will have to stress the need for better control of the European Union's administrative expenditure, while the European Commission is proposing, in the next multiannual financial framework, a substantial increase in this item, in the order of 23%. This proposal, which runs counter to the vocation of the Union's budget, which must be a matter of intervention and investment rather than administration, also runs counter to the efforts to control the budget and, consequently, to reduce the public expenditure requested by the Member States in the framework of the Treaties. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group as well as on some benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] With these few comments and ideas for the construction of the future multi-annual financial framework, I propose that you vote in favour of the adoption of section 36 of the finance bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u33	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u34	First of all, I would like to thank Pascal Brindeau for his excellent report, as well as Jean-Luc Mélenchon for his interesting written contribution. With all the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, whom I would also like to thank, we have had a real substantive debate, not only on the revenue levy for the Union, but also, more broadly, on the Europe we want to build and finance. The European financial framework should not be seen as a technical or only budgetary issue, but rather as a means and a political lever for a strategic vision. If a budget is a political act – which I believe – then it must have unquestionable democratic legitimacy. That is why I am calling for the multi-annual financial framework to be reduced in future from seven to five years to coincide with European elections. Any newly elected European Parliament should be able to exercise its budgetary and financial prerogatives fully.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u35	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u36	This is not the case today, and it is a democratic problem all the more crucial that Europe, as long as it finally decides to really exist, will face enormous challenges in the years to come. The first of these is the fight against climate change, which no state, however powerful, will be able to cope with alone. Fiscal and fiscal instruments such as the carbon tax at borders and the climate disaster fund are all strategic tools to act together effectively. We need to draw a perspective on this and adopt a proactive agenda. Linking the conclusion of any new trade agreement to strict compliance with the Paris climate agreement would be a first step, but the urgency must also lead us to the immediate restoration of substantial tariffs in case of breach of environmental obligations, including for existing agreements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u37	We will support this measure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u38	I turn to the question of migration and the common asylum policy. We must refocus and harmonise the right to asylum – this is a vital issue if we are to safeguard this fundamental right on a sustainable basis; no longer leave countries of origin, destination or reception without assistance; think of legal avenues for economic migration; changing our practices to succeed in integration; build a new partnership with Africa to ensure that it manages its own resources for its benefit. Finally, we must ensure the surveillance of our external borders by organising and financing a real rise in the power of Frontex.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u39	Now we don't agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u40	All these issues are political and need to be taken into account in the European budget. [[Alain David applauds]] Peace and stability in the world, particularly in the countries close to our Union, are also a key issue. France is on the front line in the Sahel, where it acts on behalf of Europe to ensure the security of all the countries of the European Union. These operations, carried out in conflict zones, must be taken into account by the European Union and its budget, because, I repeat, by acting in the Sahel, France preserves and protects European interests. The same applies to European defence. The news in the north-east of Syria and its procession of deaths and atrocities caused by the Turkish aggression and the denial of Donald Trump point cruelly to the lack of a genuine European defence. We must build it seriously and accompany it with firm political will. We have leveraged against Ankara, such as the funds released for refugees in Turkey, which have accounted for almost €6 billion since 2016, the pre-accession instruments, which have amounted to almost €4.5 billion since 2014, and the renegotiation of the customs union. Let's use these levers! The European budget must also be put at the service of an economic and social vision. The Committee on Foreign Affairs opposed the European Commission's proposal to reduce the resources allocated to the common agricultural policy for the next multiannual financial framework. France must continue to refuse any reduction in these appropriations, this great area of action being of strategic and vital importance to Europeans, while the transformation of our agriculture must be considered a priority. With regard to cohesion policy, the Committee on Foreign Affairs continues to call for the payment of the Structural Funds to the Member States to be linked to progress in fiscal and social harmonisation – it is simply a matter of justice and equity. We expect France to address this issue and defend this requirement. [[Ms. Stella Dupont applauds]] The budget must also serve an economic policy geared towards full employment. With a budget of only 1.11% of European GDP and a mandate of the European Central Bank – ECB – focused solely on controlling inflation, the Union is now unable to meet this ambition. As long as our budget is not larger, especially in terms of investment capacity, and until the ECB, like the US Federal Reserve, has an objective of full employment, we will not be able to pursue a real economic policy on a large scale. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the work of Mario Draghi, whose term of office at the head of the ECB ends, who has been able to carry out an accommodative monetary policy which has made a powerful contribution to bringing the euro area out of the economic crisis. However, the risk of economic slowdown threatens. However, an effective European policy in this area could avoid many tragedies, at a time when a large part of the peoples have turned away or are turning away from Europe. Finally, we have long hoped that the European budget will be abounded with own resources. It would gain clarity, readability and efficiency. Harmonised company tax, plastic waste tax, carbon tax: there is no shortage of proposals, we must now give them concrete action. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM, UDI-Agir and SOC groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the challenges we face are immense, both outside and within our Union. It's now that we have to be on this date.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u41	Mr Alexandre Holroyd, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on European Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u42	Today we are looking at the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union. Behind this acronym is a financial commitment and, above all, concrete actions for the benefit of European citizens. For 2020, the French contribution is estimated at €21.3 billion, which is close to the forecast for 2019. I note from the outset, as the High Council for Public Finance did, that the forecast of French contribution in 2020 is in slight decline, whereas it is the last of the multiannual financial framework. Historically, however, the last year has seen an acceleration of the Union's expenditure. This is largely due to the time lag between commitment authorizations and payment appropriations. Secondly, the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union also places considerable uncertainty on this contribution. The risks of Brexit are not without consequences for the 2020 budget, since the proposal for a European budget is based on the assumption that the United Kingdom will participate. In the event of an exit without agreement, the Commission has, of course, presented a contingency regulation allowing the United Kingdom to continue to benefit from European funding and maintain its contribution, but this does not remove all fears related to the consequences of the departure of the second net contributor to the EU budget. That being said, I think it is wise to go back to what the French contribution to the European Union actually makes to our citizens. A budget, whether European or national, is not just figures: it is public policies, actions, for our country, our regions, our citizens. The French contribution goes to a European budget that must live up to our political priorities. Beyond traditional policies such as agriculture, the 2020 budget devotes €35.3 billion to financing the ecological transition. European funds encourage low-carbon projects, as in Amiens: the Amiens Energies heat network, co-financed by Europe, uses renewable energies and improves the quality of the air breathed by the Amienois. The next multiannual financial framework must increase this ecological ambition. I still have in mind the proposals made during the European elections: to make the European budget 100% compatible with the Paris Agreement and to double the amount it devotes to the ecological transition. As droughts and heats become stronger each year, at a time when every citizen is confronted with the effects of climate change, European efforts and money must support the new European Green Deal, a priority of the new Commission. In simple words, this French contribution we are talking about today allows us to redouble our vigour in the fight against global warming. Funding for innovation and research must also provide us with the means to meet this ecological challenge. Environmental science projects are already an integral part of the European Horizon 2020 programme, with research on the circular economy or renewable energy. But the future European Innovation Council, financed by the European budget and therefore by our contribution, will have to make environmental innovation a top priority. While we have missed many technological turning points, Europe cannot miss green innovations, such as the project to build a European battery industry for electric cars, now supported by France and Germany with the construction of a factory in New Aquitaine. Europe's ability to protect its citizens from the consequences of the world's upheavals is based on the affirmation of its sovereignty. The French contribution to the European budget supports the development of a European military capability and a genuine strategic autonomy. How can we build a Europe that defends itself effectively when there are 17 models of European tanks, while the United States has only one? The European Defence Fund, with €525 million, helps our companies develop joint industrial projects. The pooling of our forces is the condition of a Europe capable of defending its values in the world of tomorrow. It is now clear that, across Europe, national management of migration issues is not effective, both in the processing of asylum applications and in border control. Harmonisation is imperative, and I am pleased that the 2020 budget increases the resources allocated to both the Frontex Agency and the European Asylum Support Office by more than one third. The corollary of freedom of movement is greater coherence between the asylum policies of each Member State. Our contribution to the European budget is part of this. Ecology, economy, protection and asylum: these are many hopes that we place in this European budget. Last year, from this rostrum, I told you that I often heard the same chorus: a solution must be found at European level. Of the correctness of this statement, I am quite convinced – but how can we explain that the European budget remains equivalent to 1% of our collective wealth? In order to deal with all the fronts where we send it, Europe must be able to acquire its own resources. Today, two thirds of its resources come directly from the Member States, through the French contribution we are studying today, and from other European countries. Previously, the Union was mainly financed by its own resources, including customs duties, which were rapidly reduced with the development of trade agreements. However, Europe needs budgetary independence, which will give it the key force to achieve the objectives we set for it. Let me note with satisfaction, ladies and gentlemen, that the European elections have made it possible to move the debate on this issue forward. The introduction of a carbon tax at the borders of the Union and a digital services tax would give Europe independent resources from the Member States, which would serve political, ecological and digital objectives. I welcome this, and I know that our newly elected European parliamentarians will be committed to defending in Strasbourg the idea of a more autonomous Europe with real capacity for action. If there is a subject that can agree on us all, ladies and gentlemen, it is the instability of our world. The European budget is set in tranches of seven years. But let us look at the last seven years, from Brexit to trade wars: it is impossible to predict the political future. Let us learn from our mistakes and ask for greater budgetary flexibility. On respecting our values, we must be intractable. We are nothing without freedom, equality, the independence of justice and freedom of the press. The Union must not compromise with the transgression of its values; If a Member State fails to comply, it must cease to benefit from European solidarity and funds. The next multiannual financial framework should help to combat the decline in the rule of law. Our fellow citizens are also asking for clarity: the future multiannual framework cannot escape it and will have to be more legible, so that everyone can make a concrete distinction between European actions. European expenditure must be easily identifiable, as must the Union's resources: I join the rapporteur-general in saying that the departure of the United Kingdom must absolutely mark the end of the system of rebates. Finally, I think it is necessary to change the paradigm when we discuss the European budget. Many blame him for all the evils of our societies. Many do not want to look further than a vain calculation between what they give and what they receive. These critics forget what a budget is. However, the principle is simple: the collective is the sine qua non for effective responses to the great challenges we face. By pooling our resources, we can finance more efficient public services, larger-scale innovation, more ambitious public policies. Imagine our heads if, during the study of the finance bill, every French taxpayer made the calculation of his or her contribution to the state, and asked us for a discount if he or she gave more than he or she receives! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LR groups]] Colleagues, let us keep in mind that we, Government and parliamentarians, are also responsible for this budget. It is no longer possible to ask, at the same time as incantations, more and more of the Union without giving it not only the means but also the capacity to create its own means of action. We cannot call for a Europe that champions the ecological transition, a Europe that protects us from the upheavals of the world, a Europe of research and innovation, a Europe of solidarity, a Europe that promotes quality agriculture, without a significant increase in the European budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u43	Mrs Sabine Thillaye, chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u44	The annual debate on the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union is taking place this year in a particular context, since the Union's budget for 2020 will be both the first voted by the new European Parliament and implemented by the new Commission, the last governed by the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014 to 2020, and probably the first of a Union that, for the first time in its history, is shrinking. The amount of the levy on the State's revenue is a financial expression of our accession to the Union. The rapporteur of the Committee on European Affairs has said this: this is an estimated amount which could lead to major revisions during the year, particularly in the last year of the multiannual financial framework, which is further marked by the uncertainties surrounding, more than ever, the conditions of Brexit. This procedure, in which we vote an estimated amount while knowing that it will not be the amount executed, is not completely satisfactory. It is true that if the European budget benefited from more own resources and depended less on national budgets, the question would not arise in the same terms! Despite this methodological reservation, of course I call for a vote on clause 36 of the finance bill. Some of our colleagues sometimes propose by amendments to reduce the amount of this levy. I would like to remind you of some of the facts. First, our country has made commitments to its partners with the adoption of the multiannual financial framework. Just as we stress that the United Kingdom must honour the financial commitments it has made until 2020 as a member of the Union, whether with or without agreement, our country cannot unilaterally decide to reduce its contribution to the European Union's budget. Secondly, the European budget, which is essentially an investment budget, is small and even too small. It accounts for only about 2% of total public expenditure in the European Union. Finally, the benefit we derive from our membership of the European Union cannot be measured by a relationship between the European funds paid to the French territory and our contribution. I believe that many of our British friends are aware of this, perhaps with a touch of bitterness. While it is essential that all Member States be treated fairly when contributing to the European Union budget – maintaining the system of rebates would be indefensible in this respect – I therefore refuse to go into the logic of just return. In my view, one of the major issues in the negotiations on the future financial framework is the determination of new own resources for the Union's budget. We will not be able to get out of the logic of national selfishness, to finance the new priorities of the European Union and to compensate for the departure of the United Kingdom without finding significant new own resources. Since we are debating the European Union within the framework of the finance law, I will cite two examples in this text of extra-budgetary contributions from our membership of the Union. Two articles of the draft finance law transpose European directives and illustrate the fact that, in particular in the fight against tax fraud and optimisation, action is more effective at European level than at national level: Article 13, which transposes the directive on the fight against hybrid arrangements, known as ATAD 2 – anti-tax avoidance directive – in order to combat tax optimisation more effectively, and Article 53, which transposes the directive on the VAT regime for electronic commerce in order to reduce the administrative burden on businesses and to combat VAT fraud more effectively. To return to the stricto sensu budget, I do not forget the essential part of the common agricultural policy, with EUR 43.5 billion for the first pillar and EUR 14.7 billion for the second pillar. We are all mobilized to maintain an ambitious common agricultural policy in the next programming. The 2020 budget also, and rightly so, gives priority to an innovation and youth-oriented Europe, with €13.5 billion spent on research and innovation, and 2.8 billion on Erasmus+, an increase of 1.8%. It also values a Europe that, despite still too limited resources, strives to meet the expectations of our citizens for protection and to show solidarity: 560 million euros are provided for people in need in Syria, as well as for refugees and neighbouring countries who receive them. At the same time, Frontex's climb continues. It is therefore both a continuity budget, which continues the implementation of the 2014-2020 programmes and the new priorities integrated in the mid-term review of the financial framework, and a transition budget towards the new generation of programmes. Two examples, among others: the European Innovation Council, scheduled for 2021 to finance breaking innovation, is already in place in the form of a pilot project; The European Defence Fund is foreshadowed by the European Industrial Development Programme in the field of defence and the preparatory action on defence research. This leads me to talk about the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework. The preparation of these new perspectives invites us to reflect not only on what we expect from the European budget and on the resources we are prepared to devote to it, but also on the European budgetary procedure and its link with national procedures. It has already been stated that a good budget is not only a budget of a sufficient amount, it is also a readable budget for citizens and for parliamentarians responsible for voting and controlling it. In this regard, the proliferation of funds, some of which are out of the budget, does not seem to me to be a good method. The necessary flexibility of the European budget should take other paths. The re-integration of all instruments into the Union budget is of course incompatible with the desire of some countries to limit the volume of the multiannual financial framework to 1% of gross national income. In order for the increase in the European budget, which I believe is indispensable, to be accepted by these countries, we could highlight a kind of principle of budgetary subsidiarity, according to which additional expenditure at European level would replace existing expenditure at national level. Thus, there would be no increase in public expenditure. Last comment on the budgetary procedure: the timetable for the intervention of national parliamentarians in the debate on the Union's budget and on the coordination of national budgets should be reviewed. The rapporteur-general and I were present three weeks ago at the Inter-Parliamentary Conference on Stability, Economic Coordination and Governance of the European Union. This biannual meeting is too disconnected from the highlights of the European Semester, which are, on the one hand, the autumn package and, on the other hand, the presentation of national reform programmes and country-specific recommendations. In conclusion, I stress the urgency of speeding up negotiations on the MFF. As the new European Parliament is now at work, there is an urgent need for the Heads of State and Government to make progress on this subject, which is a condition for all the others. At the Inter-Parliamentary Conference, the Portuguese Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets of the European Parliament, Margarida Marques, expressed concern that, if the multiannual financial framework is not adopted in time and time, the new programmes will not be able to start in good conditions. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Madam Secretary of State, I count on your voluntarism to avoid a situation that is detrimental not only to the beneficiaries of the European budget, but also to the European idea itself and to the confidence our fellow citizens place in our institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u45	We come to the statements of the spokespersons of the groups. Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u46	As an introductory statement, I thank the rapporteurs, in particular the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs Pascal Brindeau, and the services of that committee, who are giving us a lucid report, identifying the strengths of Community budgetary policy and the areas in need of reform. Others said that France's revenue levy for the European Union's 2020 budget is estimated at €21.3 billion. The levy is therefore stabilized, despite a small decrease of about 200 million compared to the amount implemented in 2018. It is thus largely consistent with the previous budgets of the multi-annual financial framework 2014-2020. This levy is too often perceived by some public opinion as a cost to the state budget, even though it serves the interests of the French doubly: directly, by financing Union policies, some of which are addressed directly to us, and indirectly, by contributing to the very functioning of the European Union. However, as always when we speak of Europe, fantasies are developing and the counter-truths are coming out of the mouth of those who seek a distant and obscure culprit to the situation in our country. And what would be simpler to attack the Union than to attack the Member States' contribution to the European budget, which would still be too high? Let us make it clear: yes, France is a net contributor to the European Union budget. Yes, we are the third net contributor in volume to its budget, allowing other Member States, net beneficiaries, to take advantage of European funding to support their economic development. Does that make us the useful idiots of Europe, who would agree to pay for others? No, since we are also the second largest recipient of EU expenditure. For example, EU expenditure in France in 2018 amounted to EUR 14.7 billion, or 11% of total EU expenditure. However, the logic of calculating a return on investment runs counter to that of the founding fathers, and makes the common benefits of sharing resources little visible. The European Union is a single market that gives our businesses direct access to 500 million consumers. These are global industrial successes, major projects that have emerged, thousands of scientists and research centres that collaborate across the continent, or thousands of students who, each year, can go to study in a foreign country. The European Union is also the world's largest exporter of manufactured goods and services. It is a weight on the international stage that we alone could never have had. Our common trade policy allows us to have a real leverage in the power relations with the largest countries, China and the United States. At a time when trade wars have been rife and retaliatory measures are increasing, European cooperation is more necessary than ever. But beyond these common economic interests, Europe is a continent that shares common values and expectations. In an increasingly globalised context, being European means having important expectations in terms of quality of life, quality of food, the environment or, more generally, consumer protection. For all these challenges, we are obviously stronger together than isolated. Of course, the European Union is not exempt from criticism. Perhaps the main thing is that Europe is not sufficiently visible in the daily lives of our citizens. It is extremely responsible, but we are equally responsible, as Member States which together make up it. This year's elections cannot please us: we cannot simply see that only one in two citizens is interested in European issues. The budgetary question is precisely an opportunity to win back the citizens' interest in our Europe, not through pure and hard budgetary discussions, but through debates on the strategic investments that Europe must make its action more visible, more concrete and more useful for the future of our citizens. First of all, we must support the implementation of the Union's own resources – rather than an increase in Member States' contributions that are too subject to questions from our fellow citizens – and then the increase in appropriations intended to serve primarily the Horizon 2020 research programme and space programmes. The resources allocated to the European Defence Fund and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency Frontex must also be supported in order to establish a permanent corps of 10,000 border guards by 2027. The discussions which will continue until December to establish the multiannual financial framework for the European budget will be crucial and must mobilise our full vigilance on at least two points: the maintenance of CAP amounts and the maintenance of cohesion funds for our rural areas. Germany, Austria, Sweden, the Netherlands and Denmark are calling for the EU budget to represent only 1% of the gross national income of the 27 Member States, instead of 1.11% proposed by the European Commission. While the Commission is already planning a decrease of almost 6% for cohesion funds, further reducing the EU budget would drastically reduce the funding of this essential contribution for our regions. In 2018, France received more than 2 billion euros to support professional reintegration or help our most rural territories. For its part, the CAP, which is already planned for a 5% plan, would also see its funds affected by a reduction in national contributions, with a reduction of between EUR 60 billion and EUR 70 billion. Worse still, the next CAP reform plans to raise national co-financing rates, which would lead countries to pay out of their pockets to compensate for losses and thus lose the whole common side of European agricultural policy. France must therefore continue to defend the maintenance of a CAP budget equivalent to that currently allocated, in order to preserve our agricultural model and to continue to support our farmers. On the other hand, it would be necessary for the European Union to consider greening this CAP with more support for agro-ecological transition and more virtuous practices. It will therefore be necessary to remain vigilant about the timetable for negotiations, especially since the current CAP expires at the end of 2020, which makes transitional measures necessary before the new CAP can take over. I will conclude with an issue on which the High Council for Public Finance, in its opinion on the Finance Bill for 2020, calls for vigilance. The High Council points out that there are risks to the estimation of the amount of the revenue levy in favour of the European Union. It fears a deficit of around EUR 1 billion, with the amount of the levy usually increasing at the end of a multiannual financial framework. From the perspective of Brexit, it should also be recalled that the United Kingdom is the second net contributor to the European Union budget, just behind Germany, with a stake of €7.5 billion for the period 2012-2016. How will the British share be compensated? Discussions on the adoption of own resources proposals, particularly from the harmonised corporate tax base, may continue for some time. In the meantime, the adjustment should still take place through the gross national income levy. Thus, for the multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027, maintaining the overall effort will mechanically result in a substantial increase in the participation of the main contributors. In this case, the average annual increase in the French contribution is expected to be around €6.3 billion, compared to the current period. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Despite this risk, the members of the UDI, Agir and Independent Group agree with Pascal Brindeau and will vote in favour of Article 36 authorising the levy on revenue for the benefit of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u47	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u48	To discuss France's contribution to the European Union is to discuss our project for Europe and our ambition for the future. The issues raised by this debate are not only accounting, they are also eminently political. We must take this opportunity to examine in depth the common policies of the European Union and the orientations we choose for Europe. For the Union remains to be built, in essence. We have certainly given birth to it, but the feeling of common belonging, deep adherence does not exist – instead there is doubt, which poses a major problem. From a budgetary point of view, the revenue levy provides the Union with 21.3 billion for 2020. Let us remember, however, that this is only an estimate, on which you ask us to vote. That's where the bastard hurts. Indeed, the European Union's 2020 budget is in a very unstable context. Uncertainties about Brexit terms, with or without agreement, weigh heavily. It is possible that the British refuse to secure their contribution for the entire budget framework, which is up to 2020. On the other hand, there is much evidence that a new economic crisis is possible, if not likely. The trade war that is being waged by the United States and China in particular has a real impact, as the Americans have adopted protectionist measures that affect the industry. As a result, the euro area's growth is slowed down – yet it does not need it! In short, the amount of the budget we are voting on is uncertain. Already in 2019, four amending budgets were adopted. Of course, this year there is a good surprise, since we save 249 million euros on the amount voted in the original 2019 finance law. However, we all know that such surprises are not the norm, and that the issue must be studied within the European Union. When the parliaments of each country vote on the budget of the European Union and on the contribution of the Member States to it, the amount voted must be genuinely respected. On the other hand, the revenue levy is perceived by some as an important burden on the State budget. This debate is thus an opportunity to address the question of the relationship between the public finances of the different countries, France in particular, and the European integration process. We cannot remember enough: while France is a major contributor to the Union's budget, it is also one of its main beneficiaries. In 2018, France was the second largest recipient of EU expenditure, behind Poland, largely thanks to the funds of the common agricultural policy. The EU budget for 2020 is in line with the previous one, within the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. We regret this, as the Union struggles to meet such unprecedented and colossal challenges as the environmental challenge, the digital challenge and the enormous challenge of migration movements. As a result, Europeans doubt their institutions. The Brexit is of course the ultimate and painful proof of this. This rejection is due in particular to a lack of transparency. A profound reform of the European Union's financial mechanisms is needed in order to improve the readability and transparency of the budget. Much remains to be done. We support the Government's willingness to put an end to the system of rebates, which contravenes the principle of budgetary solidarity. We all know this practical problem: how can a French citizen understand that the call rate for the VAT resource is set at 0.3% for France, whereas it is only 0.15% for other countries, such as Germany or the Netherlands? The Libertés et Territoires Group supports the European Commission's intention to introduce three new own resources for the next multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027: the contribution on plastic waste of EUR 7 billion per year, the consolidated common corporate tax base of EUR 12 billion and the emission trading scheme contribution of EUR 1.2 to 3 billion per year. This virtuous project responds to the challenges of tomorrow. The share of new own resources should thus correspond, with an annual average of around EUR 22 billion for the period 2021-2027, to some 12 % of the Union's budgetary revenue. Finally, given the importance of climate issues, the Commission has proposed to increase the share of the budget devoted to achieving climate objectives from 20% to 25%. Of course, we support the objective of greening the European budget to the tune of 40%, which could be part of the second pillar of the CAP. However, the next financial framework also raises concerns. We are thinking in particular of the risks of inequitable financial transfers between Member States. While, in the Commission's initial proposal, the CAP remains the first item of expenditure, its volume decreases by 5%, from the current €408 billion to €365 billion. Similarly, cohesion policy would receive a 7% increase in its appropriations. The need to assert new priorities by the Commission should not be at the expense of traditional policies. This implies either an increase in the overall budget or drastic choices. Brexit can be seen, even if it is not its first characteristic, as an opportunity to strengthen ties between the countries of the European Union and to formulate a new European ambition, in which our fellow citizens would be fully engaged. For this, Europe must meet the expectations of its citizens – and there are many of them. First, there is tax harmonisation. This is necessary, as the attempts to introduce a 3% tax on the turnover of online advertising of digital giants at European level or a tax on financial transactions are proof of this. If this harmonisation is difficult, it is because taxation is the last area, with foreign affairs, where, in order for a directive to be adopted, the unanimity of the 28 Member States is required. This condition has for decades prevented further harmonisation of taxation. Only a qualified majority system can help Member States meet today's challenges. In any event, nothing truly constructive will be achieved as long as there are real tax and social havens within the Union itself. In parallel with this process of fiscal harmonization, an exemplary area of sustainable development must be built. The European Union must be the driving force behind the ecological transition. Changes in economic systems and behaviour should be encouraged. Thus, a massive investment plan in the ecological and solidarity-based transition at European level is needed. Thanks to its economic power, Europe is the only one able to respond to the environmental challenges of tomorrow. By the way, I invite you to read Jeremy Rifkin's The Green New Deal. You will see that the situation is changing in the United States and that a debate is taking place on the direction of investments, both in the private and public sectors, in the field of energy: support for fossil energy is decreasing, as the support for renewable energy is increasing. Within the European Union, environmental issues are likely to be the subject of additional resources in the next multiannual financial programme. We can only rejoice and encourage this development. However, we believe it is necessary to go further in this area. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the recasting of Europe will require the redefinition of its project and the formulation of a greater ambition: the accession of its citizens. This is the condition of every democratic life, and it is the major challenge for the European future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u49	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u50	Before I get into the heart of the matter, allow me to have a keen thought for the Chilean people, while a solidarity gathering is taking place in front of the embassy of that country. This people peacefully manifests against expensive life and inequality and undergoes a savage repression of the army – eight people have already died. From this rostrum, I send him a fraternal and warm greeting as he fights for dignity and for a society that serves the interests of the greatest number. Let us return to France's contribution to the budget of the European Union, which has had an unusual fate in recent years, in view of the fate of the other items of expenditure in the State budget – particularly those related to social missions. In three years, the contribution has increased by almost €3 billion, or 15%. At the same time, as one of your expressions, the housing budget, which finances personalized housing subsidies and subsidies to HLM, has fallen by 17%, and the employment budget has fallen by 25%. These cuts do not come from anywhere: they are imposed on us by the Brussels technocrats. These austere cuts have their direct origin in the Treaties of the European Union, which considers that we are still spending too much. It is the European Commission that orders the dismantling of the state and imposes austerity in public services. However, we are making a net contribution of EUR 9 billion to the Union. With such a sum, there would be plenty to fulfill many missions of general interest in France: 9 billion, it is 60,000 housing units HLM, it is 180,000 teachers of national education – you smile, Madam Secretary of State, but that is true – it is to solve the problem of abuse in institutions for the care of dependent elderly people. Instead, we make this contribution. To finance what? We are talking about solidarity, but it is the opposite: there is no social convergence programme up in Europe. The Structural Funds finance policies of duty reduction and social dumping. For example, Poland has received €86 billion in EU grants since 2014. The governments of this country, on the far right or on the extreme right, depending on the years, maintain a very low level of social protection for Polish workers, in order to take advantage of the iniquitous directive on posted workers. Some 61,000 Polish workers are posted to France, in conditions that violate a principle that our country recognizes in international conventions: "for equal work, equal pay". No, Emmanuel Macron's gesticulations for two and a half years have not changed anything. As long as social security contributions remain paid in the country of origin, dumping will continue. When you are truly determined to put an end to this injustice, you will see our bill, tabled by our President, Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon. She's ready, you'll only have to vote for her. The same applies to tax dumping. A country like Ireland is, in the eyes of all the competent NGOs, a tax haven. Corporate tax is among the lowest in the world. It is also, and it is no coincidence, the country that Apple has chosen as the centre of the tax system that allows it to escape taxes in Europe. However, Ireland, which is complicit in the tax evasion of multinationals, has been receiving more than €3 billion from the European budget since 2014. What else will you do for the 9 billion you will give to the European Union? To finance an agricultural policy that indefinitely perpetuates a productivist model, whereas it should instead initiate the ecological and peasant transition. Our 9 billion surplus is apparently not enough to ban glyphosate and stop poisoners in Europe, as our country has requested. They will also serve, and I insist on this point, to give 6 billion euros to the fascist regime of Erdo?an, this Islamist dictator who massacres at this very moment our Kurdish allies, who have paid the price of blood to fight our enemy. We do not have the right to abandon the Kurds who fought Daesh for humanity: they paid him 11,000 lives! We have no right to abandon them! Are we also going to vote to give money to the one who organizes a massacre and tries to kill an ecological, feminist and common life political experiment unique to the world? Such dishonor alone should lead you to vote against this contribution. To accept this revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union is also to validate the dead-front flight towards ever more free trade. The exponential increase in the contribution of States to the European budget is a consequence. In 1988, customs duties accounted for 30 % of the revenue entering the Union's funds; Today, it is twice as much as it is because we allow free entry of goods and capital from the four corners of the planet. This orientation is irresponsible and criminal. By voting in favour of France's contribution to the European Union's budget, you are encouraging the world's big move and its greenhouse gas emissions when we are only 12 years old to limit global warming and its consequences. We must refuse to pay in order to close the holes in a suicidal trade policy for humanity. For the time being, your Government and the European Union continue to be more successful: the adoption of CETA – a comprehensive economic and trade agreement – with Canada and the JEFTA – a free trade agreement between Japan and the EU, the opening of negotiations with the United States, and I turn to the 20 or so agreements currently under negotiation... As you can see, the La France insoumée group will vote against this article in the budget, which provides for 21 billion euros to be given to the European Union. It is not the rejection of solidarity that drives us, because it is not the solidarity that we are being offered, but its opposite. We are asked to spend less on our public services, less on our social assistance to finance a structure entirely dedicated to the competition of everyone against everyone. To say that is not to be a "nationalist" either. The use of such an argument or rather of such an anathema against us serves only to cut short the debate. It is the fact of those who think that when the European Union asks for something, the only possible answer is yes. We are the side of those who consider that it is time for France to say no. The voice of France can be useful to the peoples of Europe if it proposes another path, and the exit of the Treaties. Governments must be allowed to pursue a sovereign fiscal policy in line with our duties, in order to preserve a living ecosystem. Solidarity protectionism must be put in place to relocate production as a matter of urgency. We must put the European Central Bank under political control and stop the systematic competition of public services. We will not be able to do this until the French leaders behave like fearful little boys before the Commission and the German government: a balance of power will necessarily have to be engaged. The importance of our contribution to the budget of the European Union is a tool in this discussion. France can exert pressure. For all these reasons, we will vote against the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union. Here I would like to remind the Government and my colleagues that there is no Europe without France. This Europe is no longer suitable for French and French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u51	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u52	In 2019, the European elections were held and the European Union's key positions were selected. These applications, which are obviously not submitted to the peoples, are a diplomatic mess with the worst effect on European citizens. Thus, while the Brussels trade fairs were heating up to replace the President of the Commission or the European Council, the High Representative of the EU or the President of the European Central Bank, European citizens were watching this sad spectacle – a spectacle that continues in the European Parliament. Let us say this: the European Union is in a total stalemate. Its leaders seem not to understand their fellow citizens as much as they are cut off from the world, its MEPs work both well and badly with the lack of power at their disposal, and the fiscal guidelines of 2019, as well as that of the next seven years, are at best uninterested, at worst counterproductive. European budgets are financed by two types of own resources which are increasingly unbalanced: resources from customs duties and sugar levies, on the one hand, and resources from Member States' revenue, on the other. In other words, the European Union is financed on the one hand by the resources it collects from external goods, and on the other by the resources it collects from the revenue of its Member States – except that the Union has a mandate to negotiate and sign free trade agreements, the latest of which, the CETA, will do very badly; However, these free trade agreements systematically include the abolition of customs duties. The European Union is therefore squandering its revenues with each agreement, which the majority then ratifies in the House at all times: Australia and New Zealand, Vietnam, Japan, Canada, MERCOSUR, everything will pass there! While these tariffs accounted for almost 30% of the European Union's budget in the 1980s, they now account for only 14%. At the same time, the share of the Member States' revenue levy in the EU budget increased from 41% in the 1990s to more than 70% in 2018. There is therefore a transfer of customs duties to State levies. In short, the European Union is shifting from financing by outside companies to financing by European businesses and citizens. This approach to the financing of the Union is no longer acceptable and the Communist Members will continue to denounce it, especially since the European Union imposes a perpetual austerity with the Maastricht criteria, which prevent the states from meeting the needs of their peoples. Worse, it does not impose any budgetary effort on its side, as if everything was going well in each of its Member States. The globalisation promoted by the European Union therefore has a good back since it is always compensated at budgetary level by the Member States. But let us not forget that it is precisely this globalization that endangers our planet and all the species it harbours, that creates inequalities and that puts peoples in competition. It is illusory to believe that all the social and environmental destruction it causes in Europe will be compensated by EU aid. The EU's financing policy therefore poses serious problems as it encourages deregulated globalisation, forcing Member States to compensate for these choices. The budget reflects this cynicism. As the report clearly shows, the budgetary framework for 2021-2027 will provide for an increase of more than 23% in the Union's administrative expenditure, which will be increased to EUR 85 billion during this period, increasing its share from 6% to 6.7% of the EU's total expenditure. Given the usefulness of this Union in the field, it would seem preferable to increase the number of nurses, teachers, firefighters or doctors in France rather than contribute to the financing of these posts! If you don't make a choice, this one's ours! Beyond the debate on the levy for 2020, we must warn about the European Union's budgetary framework for 2021-2027, which will result in the explosion of the amount of our levy, of more than €6 billion a year, to compensate for the departure of the United Kingdom – which continues to rebound, failure after failure. Next year, we will be debating a revenue levy of almost €27 billion. While we are struggling to increase many French budgets to meet the needs – I am thinking in particular of official development assistance – we will no doubt find 7 billion to please Brussels... This does not augur well because, after the departure of the United Kingdom, the cards will be broken down again. We hope that our diplomacy will make France's voice heard so that the budgetary contributions become a little more just. There is, of course, the question of the end of the rebates, which allow States, such as Germany or other states mentioned in the debate, to negotiate the amount of their contribution with the Union. This occult trading system is unbearable. The need for budgetary clarity must be the key to this reform. In general, transparency in the functioning of the European Union and its relations with the States and with the peoples that make up it is a requirement which the Committee on Foreign Affairs has echoed in a previous report. There is an urgent need to reconcile peoples with the European Union; There is an urgent need to ensure transparency. Another concern raised by this reform is the raising of the own resources ceiling, which will allow the European Union to request more contributions than it does today. Let us be serious and demand that this ceiling be maintained at its level. The European Union is already a real political carcan for the peoples: let us not intensify this trend. Instead, let us work to reduce the competition between workers, businesses, public services and social systems in the EU. Then we will have done a useful work. On the budgetary front, the Union is scattered and squandering its expenditure in various budgetary aids without any real purpose. When it has a useful and important tool such as the CAP, which helps our farmers to survive, it breaks it and massacres the already tenuous ecological dimension that existed. Too bad! On the other hand, the Union has set itself the objectives that no one has set for it, including the new obsession – still present in this afternoon's debate – of a European army which, as long as it is desirable – still has to be demonstrated – is in any case not possible as long as NATO exists. The Union therefore prides itself on setting up a military embryo for which it will spend €27.5 billion – some see a single tank, others a carrier... – without anyone being able to establish diplomatic visibility. What, then, will these European soldiers serve, since European diplomacy does not exist? No firm position was taken even to condemn the Turkish attack in Syrian Kurdistan and to demand its arrest! What will be the use of an army that will not receive orders, since the Union is unable to take a position on the international scene? On migration, on the other hand, everyone seems to agree! Frontex, the European Border and Coast Guard Agency whose mission is to help Member States monitor the external borders of the European Union, will be literally doped! It works with staff from the Member States, but also has its own agents in charge of monitoring humans at the borders; They are 2000 today but will be 5000 in 2021 and 10000 in 2027, including 3000 employees directly by Frontex, to build a European fortress. With an estimated budget of EUR 1.3 billion for the period 2019-2020, and EUR 11.3 billion for the next budgetary period, this agency will become the arm of European migration policy. The Agency's budget and legal status even allow it to intervene directly on the ground, to sign agreements with non-EU countries without any parliamentary control, and to purchase military surveillance equipment in complete opacity. With little concern for human rights, this agency acts in the shadows, without any risk or control. How can we allow a state in such a worrisome state? How can we accept such opacity? Who really controls Frontex? Who is she accountable to? Already charged with numerous accusations of inaction or even complicity in the face of proven violations of human rights, this agency is not worthy of a genuine humanist policy of welcoming and managing population movements. The European Union must explain itself on this subject. Communist MEPs strongly denounce the existence of this agency, which demonstrates the security obsession that has taken over the EU. It would be wiser and more courageous to devote so many resources not to coastguards, whose mission is to control human flows, but to customs officers who control all types of trade, including the flow of narcotics and veterinary products and financial flows. It would make sense to devote the same energy that is currently being deployed to hunt down migrants in the Mediterranean or to pay Erdo?an in order to fight tax evasion and fraud! It would finally be well-used money. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The revenue levy for the European Union therefore serves a Union whose values and political goals are at the opposite of those which communist MEPs defend on a daily basis. Consequently, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u53	I call Mr Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u54	There is never anything trivial about putting our budgetary discussion in its European context. There is nothing annoyance to this because it is always an opportunity to remind us that our participation in the European Union is essential for France, and that the budgetary contribution it involves benefits the companies that export there, the young people who form there and all our fellow citizens who live there. The examination of the European levy, as Marielle de Sarnez rightly said last year, provides an opportunity to tell our fellow citizens for what expenditure this levy is used for, and whether it responds to their concerns, their aspirations for the continent and the role of France in Europe. This review also enables our Parliament to express its will and ambition for the next European budget. This is an opportunity for us to say that our Parliament wants to be a player in this negotiation which is crucial for the future of Europe. Our discussion today necessarily has a special resonance, because of the many major challenges Europe is facing, but also because of the political moment so special that we are going through. We know these challenges, but we have not yet taken full advantage of them: the climate and environmental challenge – first priority – the technological challenge, the security challenge and the economic and social challenge. These challenges are naturally coupled with a major uncertainty, that of Brexit. Uncertainty must cease and the deadlines granted by all the parties to this negotiation must be kept; It is on this condition that we can look lucidly at the future and have a clear vision of the European budget. This clarity is essential: in order to meet the challenges facing Europe and to overcome the uncertainties associated with Brexit, we must define a budget that is as coherent as it is ambitious. Coherence is first of all not to oppose new policies on migration, defence, space, artificial intelligence and digitalisation with so-called traditional policies such as the common agricultural policy or cohesion policy. Coherence also requires that further enlargements should not be called for, while calling, as some Member States do, for a reduction in the European budget. The ambition is to adapt this budget to the political moment that we live in Europe and to the objectives that we have set ourselves and that the European Parliament has validated with the election of Ursula von der Leyen as head of the European Commission – ensuring that Europe protects the interests of citizens and takes a new place in the concert of nations. It is a question of credibility: we cannot have ambitious plans at the time of the elections if there is not a budget that provides the means to achieve them. It is therefore crucial that the Member States agree to provide the European institutions with the means to meet their demands, failing which the time of immobilism and renunciation, as well as the status quo that has paralysed the European Union in recent years, will continue. The ambition of the new European governance we want is to defend our sovereignty in order to be able to decide our future, to weigh in globalisation, to fight climate change effectively, to invest in the CAP to ensure the food sovereignty of our continent, to regulate the digital transition or to work to stabilize our neighbourhood. In short, this new governance must allow us to control our destiny. If we do not want to be the vassals or substitutes of the United States or China, we must invest, as these two great powers do. At the same time, this ambition must be put into perspective with full European solidarity. It would be harmful to approach this budgetary debate only with an accounting approach, whereas behind our contribution to the European budget lies the cohesion of our continent, which allows us to meet the challenges mentioned above but which also imposes an effort of economic and social convergence in order to help the least developed countries catch up. It is because it is crucial for the control of our common destiny that this convergence effort must not tolerate any pitfalls – neither tax dumping, social dumping, nor the detricting of the rule of law. That is why we will defend the full conditionality of European funds. Finally, the European Union's budget will be up to the demands we have on Europe on the day it receives its own resources. Among the own resources available in the future budget of the Union, several avenues need to be explored: a revised VAT, a share of corporate tax, taxation of financial services, a contribution from the digital sector, or environmental taxes such as the carbon tax at borders. It is through an alliance between national contributions and the European Union's own resources that we will fully participate in the revival of the European project. Nevertheless, this revenue levy is mainly an investment – an investment to enrich and promote our democratic, social, economic model, but also our living together. It is never pointless to recall that this investment is necessarily accompanied by a fair return. This just return, it is the European credits that feed Europe concretely and the thousands of daily projects that change the face of our territories. In fact, we can regret that France is sometimes noticed by under-consumption of the European appropriations allocated to it. It will therefore be necessary in the future to remove all the bureaucratic barriers that explain these difficulties and to accompany the management authorities of the regions in order to fully deploy European policy in the territories. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, while some here openly doubt the relevance of this national contribution to the European budget, let us remember that it always ends up benefiting our citizens on a daily basis. We owe this sincerity and truth to farmers, fishermen, young people, businesses and researchers, but also to those who are furthest from employment and the most precarious, to whom the European Union is also helping. That is why our group will vote for this revenue levy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u55	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u56	In the budgetary marathon which we run every year, whose pace is, if not infernal, at least very sustained, and whose chronology is sometimes shaken, there is a point of reference, that of the time reserved for the examination of the amount of the French contribution to the budget of the European Union. This stable meeting is, beyond the importance of the sum at stake – 21.3 billion euros – welcome to discuss the future of Europe and its policies. As a founding member of the Union and a net contributor of EUR 7 billion, our country must have an enlightening debate, if only because of the troubled period we are going through. As has been said, there are many uncertainties. The first uncertainty concerns the estimated revenues. The global macroeconomic situation can only encourage us to be cautious, at a time when we are talking, because the world economy is slowing down. Indeed, the latest forecasts estimate GDP growth in the euro area at around 1.2%, the lowest rate of the decade according to the OECD, with 1% for Germany, 1.2% for France before a likely next revision, 1.8% for Spain and 0% for Italy. This slowdown is spreading due to the deterioration of the economic climate, particularly in industry, but also to the protectionist resurgences attested by rising tariffs and geopolitical tensions in the Middle East with their impact on the price of the barrel of oil. Nevertheless, the slowdown in growth in the euro area should not make us forget that these same forecasts estimate the growth of the United States at 2.5% and that of China and India at 6%. These economic forecasts are important because the share of gross national income – GNI – is the main part of the European Union's resources. The French contribution is surrounded by a halo of uncertainties, and the sincerity of the European Commission's budget forecasts is not guaranteed, as effective growth will have an impact on the final amount of the French contribution to the Union budget. In this context, some of the Government's budgetary and fiscal choices question members of the Republican Group. The lengthy budgetary debates we have already had in this House have given us the opportunity to express our reservations and reservations, as well as to make proposals. The obligation of seriousness and credibility is an ardent necessity for our country: it is part of our responsibility and our mission as a founding member of the European Union. The second uncertainty over our debates relates to the needs of the European Union for 2020 and, beyond that, for the years 2021 to 2027, the period covered by the next multiannual financial framework. We are still in a period of conciliation, with the European Parliament having to vote the day after tomorrow on its amendments to the draft budget adopted by the Council after a proposal from the Commission. The new Commission, which will not take office on 1 November but a month later, should not call into question the major budgetary balances or disrupt the dialogue between the Council and Parliament, which, in our view, is quite happy. Following the rather cunning setback inflicted on the President of the Republic, whose candidate for the committee was rejected, the Republican Group urges that the scope of the large portfolio officially requested by our country in the European Commission be safeguarded; At a time when we are talking, we have no assurance on this matter. We are very committed to the European Defence Fund and to the policy of securing the Sahel: we do not want this meeting to be missed. I will not go back to the main priorities of the European Union's budget for 2020, the last financial year of the multiannual financial framework, because they were excellently and precisely presented in the reports of our colleagues, which I have read carefully. We can support these priorities, which are often very relevant. How can we oppose, for example, the emphasis on strengthening the competitiveness of the European economy or the provision of adequate funding for the management of migration and the protection of the Union's external borders? Once again, this is a good thing. The increase in appropriations under Horizon 2020, in particular for the space programmes EGNOS and Galileo, or for the COSME programme to support entrepreneurship in SMEs, is highly desirable. We are also satisfied that the payment of the second tranche of the "Facility for Refugees in Turkey" programme has disappeared from the budget. This seems to us the least, given the sharp deterioration in relations between the European Union and Turkey following the Turkish military offensive in Syrian Kurdistan, while the occupation of part of the island of Cyprus has continued for forty-five years and new illegal drilling is taking place. All of this should lead us to regard the Turkish President's blackmail against the European Union as absolutely intolerable. At the very least, we would like the French Republic to remind its ambassador in Ankara. Madam Secretary of State, how are the €480 million earmarked for France's participation in the debt relief of Greece used? I would also like to stress the enormous uncertainty caused by the twisted episodes of Brexit. We know that when the time comes we will have to deal with the departure of the United Kingdom. In his report, our colleague Pascal Brindeau estimates that Brexit will lead to a revenue loss of between EUR 12 and 14 billion each year for the European Union. As a result, the French contribution will increase substantially. We call on you to scrupulously ensure, in the days and weeks ahead, that in the event of an agreement with the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom is firmly committed to fulfilling its financial responsibilities until the end of the transition period. I will conclude my speech by referring, in a few words, to the European Union's own resources. The lines of work in this area have been put on the table – there would be much to say. Like President Woerth, I call for a principle of reality, or at least a principle of consistency: if new European taxes were to be created in order to allocate new own resources to the European Union budget, this movement should systematically be accompanied by a reduction due to the proportion of national taxes. Otherwise, we would face serious disappointment: public opinion would no longer understand the merits of our European policy at all. The introduction of a tax on digital activities must also be viewed with some caution. We are pleased that agreement has been reached within the OECD on the introduction of such a tax on an international scale, but this leaves some uncertainty as to the possible allocation of a European digital tax to the EU budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u57	We have to conclude, Mrs. Le Grip.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u58	In view of all these questions, the Republican Group will abstain from Article 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u59	Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u60	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Committee – I particularly welcome the President of Sarnez, of whom I have just joined the Committee, and President Chillaye, with whom I have great pleasure in serving as Vice-President – the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Finance – who is from a beautiful world! –, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the levy on State revenue for the benefit of the European Union, which brings us together today, is truly that of all paradoxes. These paradoxes must be recognized and overcome. I would like to point out four of them, which I shall try, ladies and gentlemen, to elucidate in front of you. The first of these paradoxes is that of Chantecler, this glorious volatile who claimed to make the sun rise just by setting his powerful morning song. I fear that in this debate and in the vote that will follow, we will be the Chanteclers of the European budget. We have seriously questioned in the Committee on Foreign Affairs the nature of the vote – for, against, abstention – that we are about to issue on the SRP. But we must agree that this vote will not have real scope.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u61	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u62	Indeed, it concerns the implementation of a decision, called the 'own resources decision', taken by the European Council unanimously, on the basis of Article 311, paragraph 3, of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and ratified by our national Parliament. This means that if each of us can please ourselves by voting against the SRP or abstaining, no one can ignore that, if it were not voted, we would break our international commitments and open a major crisis in the Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u63	Europe is already in crisis!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u64	Singular can, therefore, that this power to say no can be exercised only on the condition that it is put in check. All this should lead us, ladies and gentlemen, to question the above-mentioned Article of the Treaty. It is high time that the Community legislative procedure under ordinary law – a qualified majority decision of the European Council and codecision with the European Parliament – was extended to cover Union revenue and not limited to expenditure alone. In any case, let's stop pretending to exercise a power that we don't really have!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u65	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u66	In these circumstances, you will not be surprised that the MODEM group, which professes the stoicism of Épictète and Marc-Aurèle, based on the serene resignation to what cannot be changed, will vote without hesitation the revenue levy that is proposed to us. Nevertheless, our group in Europe is waiting more and wants better. [[Smile]] The second paradox of which we are the toys is the paradox of Cuvier's bone, of the name of this scientist who claimed to be able to reconstruct the entire skeleton of a diplodocus from the unique bone he had at his disposal. We are, ladies and gentlemen, the imaginative Cuvier of the European budgetary diplodocus.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u67	Big one!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u68	Indeed, it is through the most modest bias – an opinion on the SRP – that we enter into a procedure from which everything escapes us. We do not have to comment on the resources, nor on the expenditure, nor on the 2020 budget, which is settled – and this is justice – between the Council of Ministers of the Union and the European Parliament, nor on the multiannual financial framework, the 2020 budget foreshadows the guidelines although it has not so far been adopted by the Council or approved by Parliament. In this regard, we can only support the adjustment of the budgetary timetable to the electoral calendar proposed by the President of Sarnez with a view to democratizing this package. Our Cuvier bone is the SRP, consisting of the transfer of a percentage of our gross national income and a VAT levy – it is a simple balancing recipe to adjust resources to expenditure. [[Laugh. – Mr Alexandre Holroyd, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, applauds]] We are presented – in good faith, let us agree – with a very stable SRP compared to the previous fiscal year. Let us also agree – and this is not criticizing anyone – that in this case many mysteries are escaping from us, of which we cannot pretend to be the organizers. I am thinking of the real financial impact of a Brexit, of the still undetermined modalities, of slowing growth and world trade, or of the amount of leftovers to be liquidated, the famous RALs, which will give rise to disbursement this year. Incidentally, we are worried about these RALs without seeing that they are the normal manifestation of a dying PSC – the grudge of the dying PSC. It is not surprising that the pace of implementation of budgetary expenditure is irregular, with hurdles that we would call Gauss curves if we were learned. The programming time of the expenditure is traditionally less expensive than that of its execution. Don't worry! Let us recognize, however, that the equilibrium variable on which we now pronounce ourselves has become much more than just an adjustment variable. It accounts for 72 % of the GNI contribution and 12 % of the Union's revenue for the VAT levy. These figures must be compared with the miserable rate of 14% corresponding to what is known as traditional own resources. However, there is no reason to welcome the fact that we are voting on most of the revenue, because it is the mark of a damaging renationalisation of the Union's system of resources, hence an intellectual regression. A real system of resources must not be made of a sum of national contributions, in the United Nations fashion, but of a set of tax levies based on capital, income and consumer goods. A modern tax is based on a principle of quotity, not on a principle of distribution – the very opposite of what has been proposed to us in the European Union for years. In his contribution to the report for the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, President Mélenchon attacked the RALs. He spoke on another point, on which I will not follow him: he opposed revenue which he considered virtuous, on the grounds that it would be collected from companies – customs duties – to revenue which he considers to be burdening individuals – the GNI contribution. This opposition does not seem to me to be economically right: customs duties affect consumers, not businesses, and the GNI contribution comes in part from businesses. Moreover, I believe that the Union must be financed by the tax levied on individuals and economic agents, not by state subsidies. The third paradox that enshrines us is that of Micromégas, the adversarial injunction of our fellow citizens which leads us to want to be both very large and very small, to build a Europe with enormous political responsibilities with a contribution to the budget of the Union reduced to what was called the congruous part of old France. I'm worried about it. [[Smile]] The EUR 21.3 billion we are asking for seems to us, quite rightly, to be a very substantial levy. However, let us be aware that European expenditure accounts for only 2% of public expenditure and 1% of the gross domestic product of the Member States, even though French public expenditure accounts for 55% of our gross domestic product. If we gave them, those numbers would be a bit of a blow to our fellow citizens! The pâté on which we vote is really the pâté of the national horse and the European lark. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must choose: we cannot at the same time maintain the amounts necessary to finance traditional European policies, first and foremost the common agricultural policy, finance new priorities for technological innovation and defence, and reject any substantial increase in the Union's budget. It is legitimate, and even necessary, to defend CAP appropriations. If we are concerned that the latter represents 40% of the Union's expenditure, it must be said that the real scandal is not in the level of these appropriations, but in the weakness of the overall financial commitment of our peoples in the service of the Union. We must choose: to reduce European ambition or to distribute money differently between Europe and the states. Micromegas, it doesn't work! The fourth paradox, which we are still not rid of, despite the imminence of Brexit, is the paradox of Maggie – Maggie Thatcher – that of the just return. We are all, let us agree, more or less thatcherians, because all, we want our money back. But that is absurdity. If each Member State were to receive the exact equivalent of what it gives, the Union would be both useless and toxic. What must determine the devolution of competences and means in the Union is certainly not the principle of fair accounting return, but that of genuine European added value. This is the implementation of a principle that is constantly proclaimed but always ignored, the principle of subsidiarity. We will emerge from the paradoxes that separate us only under three conditions: to develop a genuine system of own resources, based on quotient taxes and democratic procedures; to generalize decision-making by qualified majority; implement the principle of subsidiarity. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The European idea is the idea that we will all win, economically, politically and morally, if we stand in solidarity in the world of tomorrow. The real motto of Europe – this is the last paradox that I propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, and this one, I fully assume – should be: "Egoism well-ordered begins with others. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u69	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u70	Most of the EU budget comes directly from the Member States. About 72% of its resources consist of a levy indexed to the gross national income of the Member States. The share of the French contribution to the European Union has increased twofold over the past 40 years, from 3.7% of French tax revenues in 1982 to 7.9% in 2020, at constant scope. The question of how to finance the European budget is as crucial for the future of the European Union as it is unknown to European citizens. According to the draft finance law for 2020, France's contribution to the EU budget will amount to €21,337 billion next year. Compared to the 2012 levy, it increased by 13 per cent. We know that there is a fairly deep disagreement between Member States on the importance of the Union's expenditure by 2021-2027 – we are indeed part of a multi-annual exercise – and on the priorities in this area. This disagreement is compounded by a divergence between the European Council Presidency's proposals, which suggest that overall expenditure should amount to 1.03 % of the European Union's GDP, in line with its current volume, the wishes of other actors which refer to a percentage of 1.08 %, and the recommendations of the European Commission and the European Parliament, which propose respectively rates of 1.15% and 1.30%. The difference between these two guidelines amounts to EUR 45 billion for the period from 2021 to 2027. The next multi-annual financial framework will cover additional tasks in relation to the current framework and will therefore entail a need for additional funding. If the current overall amount is maintained, a choice will have to be made among the expenditure, i.e. among the major sectors of intervention of the European Union. Several northern states propose to reduce the funds allocated to the CAP and cohesion policy. I will be clear: it would be a mistake to oppose the CAP to the green transition, because it is the proper and efficient use of expenditure that matters first and foremost. Similarly, a reduction in funding for regional cohesion – some suggest a decrease of almost 10% – would affect a policy that has a concrete impact on economic development and promotes a nature-conscious economy. Like others, I doubt that the Member States will provide a complement if Europe fails: we have never seen such reactions. Associations working for solidarity on the ground fear that European food aid funds for the poorest people will not be kept up to the needs. So let us not ask for too low a contribution rate, arguing that unmet needs will be met by States: that is not what will happen. The French Government submits an increase in the overall budget and its own contribution under several conditions. For their part, the political groups represented in the European Parliament defend more or less bold positions on the amounts to be spent on the energy transition and the fight against global warming. If the Commission sets itself the objective of allocating 25% of expenditure, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has proposed an even more ambitious course, exceeding 30%. There is therefore a divergence on the general orientation. We have the choice between two possibilities: on the one hand, a reasonable audacity promoting innovative policies and responding to the aspirations of citizens, at a time when they express distrust of the institutions and the European Union; On the other hand, a form of withdrawal marked by a renewal of the means to the same, while the areas covered will be more extensive. In the latter case, we will have a myriad of measures, but with limited effects. I wish here, on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group and in my own name, that France has a strong ambition, both in its determination and in its priorities. As regards support for an efficient and resource-constrained economy, we must ensure greater coherence between our fiscal policy and the policy of access to liquidity and credit led by the European Central Bank. With regard to the reconciliation between the economy and the climate transition, it is important to bear in mind that the European Union is suffering from soft growth, marked by an inability to create jobs for all the population and to invest significantly for the future. In this context, the European Central Bank lends money to companies, via securities purchases, to inject liquidity into the economy. In doing so, it finances companies that do not contribute to, or even oppose, the energy transition. As we refuse to increase public debt to prevent the devastating effects of climate change, the European Central Bank, for its part, finances private debt and supports companies with no other objective but to produce, without worrying about preserving limited natural resources. There is a gulf between the sometimes spectacular announcements made at European summits and the weak means used to finance the objectives of the green transition. There is therefore a need for greater coherence in the main policies of the European Union. We must give full force to a real industrial policy of the European Union and of the European Union. So we can create wealth in a localized way. The Union must support the creation of more companies with world-class technologies that are able to compete with the best on a global scale and offer high-quality jobs and working conditions, while at the same time complying with Europe's environmental ambitions and commitments. A strong European industrial base cannot be based exclusively on a few multinationals: it must be based on the economic fabric as a whole, including SMEs. The social partners can help to strike the right balance between competitiveness and well-being. The Commission proposes to develop own resources based on the EU emissions trading scheme, up to 20% of revenue, the future consolidated common corporate tax base, from 2023 onwards, and finally, non-recycled plastic packaging waste.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u72	The European Parliament and the Socialist and Related Group suggest that we go further. More effective taxation of the very large companies that play the least so-called tax would offer the means to invest for the future and to maintain a balance between the resources of the States and the own resources of the European Union. Just as we were able to harmonise the VAT base 40 years ago, we must now aim at harmonising the corporate tax base between Member States. Finally, I will address France's contribution to the European budget. The operation established after the Treaty of Rome, according to which European expenditure was to be financed from own resources, was respected for 30 years. Since then, however, some own resources have gradually disappeared, and others have been snacked by the evolution of the economic context: thus, customs duties do not generate almost any resources, while the main resource – a VAT point – has been reduced year after year by the ministries of the budget, as explained a few years ago by our former colleague Alain Lamassoure. The new resources envisaged would increase the European Union's budget for citizens, for their protection and for the protection of their environment – an essential factor in their quality of life – and for combating unfair tax competition between Member States. In conclusion, I would like the Government to provide us with answers on the effects Brexit will have on the French contribution to the European budget, at a time when an agreement has been reached between the British Government and the Union. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Our group will vote for the SRP and hopes that the Government will take into account the proposals it has just submitted to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u73	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u74	The very high-speed plan intended to cover the entire territory by 2022: thank you Europe! The Euro-Argo project for the development of a network of 3000 autonomous floats, financed through the ERDF: thank you Europe! The new dike of Mont Saint-Michel: thank you Europe! The Louvre-Lens Museum: thank you Europe! The TGV East line: thank you Europe! And the funds paid to the European Union, let it only give us part of it, thank you who? Thank you, French taxpayers! We shall continue to repeat this: the EUR 21.3 billion entered in the draft finance law for 2020 under the French contribution to the European Union budget will be withdrawn directly from the French pocket. The money given to the European Union is the money of the French! The same scenario repeats itself, getting worse, from year to year. The amount of this contribution has doubled over the past 40 years, from 3.7 per cent of the State's tax revenues in the early 1980s to 7.9 per cent today. In 20 years, our country has been a net contributor of EUR 100 billion. And for what result? Does the European Union ensure our economic prosperity? On the contrary, the euro area is the region of the world with the lowest growth, and it also suffers a brake. The destruction of industrial jobs is continuing, accelerated by a mad policy of tax and social dumping organised within the European Union itself, while the Member States are making the eyes soft to the Middle Empire, which, with its silk roads, is about to flood our internal market, further accentuating unbearable unfair competition. Does the European Union guarantee our security? On the contrary, the free movement of goods, capital and people has weakened our state. Our agriculture is in great difficulty: a farmer commits suicide every day in our country. The dogma of the abolition of national borders has helped to disarm our nations in the face of the dangers that threaten them. On the migration front, Europe is helping to encourage migrants to settle in the country with the most favourable legal framework. France is not at the bottom of the pack in this area – the inhabitants of the cities of Menton and Calais can testify to this. Does the European Union ensure our visibility? We would like to see the rebirth of the great cooperation projects that have made our States proud. We would like to see the cultural treasures of Europe's nations more often highlighted. Not to mention that on the international diplomatic scene, the European Union is already out of date. In view of this far from being positive, why insist on financing a system that helps to restrain or weaken our nations every day? Despite government gestures, France's public debt accounts for almost 100% of its gross domestic product, or more than €2,500 billion. In addition, there is mass unemployment and community tensions. Our country is faced with challenges that are still present. Our compatriots, especially in rural areas, feel increasingly abandoned by the public authorities. And because: public services disappear one after the other,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u75	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u76	... leaving the French often the most modest in a deep disarray. How to explain to residents that their hospital will disappear, that the classes of their schools will close...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u77	It's the other way around! We maintain classes and small schools!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u78	... and that train lines deemed unprofitable will be removed?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u79	What about the local hospitals?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u80	All these situations should be political priorities for the Government and the majority, but the reality is quite different. France's increasing contributions to the European Union budget need to be drastically reduced. In this way we can directly reinject resources into the French economy and into the financing of our public services, which are on the brink of implosion. Police, justice, hospitals: these are areas in which a few billion more euros would be far from superfluous! It is time to put an end to this financial gabegie.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u81	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u82	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u83	Before considering the amendment tabled to Rule 36, I would like to reply to the speakers, who have addressed many issues on which it is interesting to provide some clarification. There were many questions about the budgetary consequences of Brexit. In this respect, a distinction should be made between the short-term consequences for 2020 and the longer-term consequences for the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. In the event of a lack of agreement with the United Kingdom, the European Commission assumes that the British will not pay the contribution expected for 2020, which would lead to a reduction of 1 to 2 billion euros for France. Our contribution to the European budget would therefore not be EUR 21 billion, but could approach EUR 23 billion. The Government is totally opposed to this approach of the Commission. We have always maintained that we will not enter into any negotiations on our future relations with the United Kingdom unless it fulfils the commitments it has made in the past. We see no more or less than a matter of cash flow and consider that this money will actually be paid, without the need for any compensation from the Member States. In the event of an agreement, we assume that the United Kingdom will have to pay all the sums it owes to the European Union under the public policies it has benefited from. I repeat, France will not accept a ressalt of its national contribution in 2020 if the British do not pay the amounts for which they are liable. We believe that the United Kingdom will have to deal with this sooner or later, with a view to negotiating our future relations. Let us come to some European policies. You have mentioned, Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the European Defence Fund, with EUR 13 billion, which we would like to see managed by the new Directorate-General for Defence. Mr Lecoq, we do not intend to create an army.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u84	You wanted to build a carrier!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u85	This is Mr Woerth's idea, but I have not yet been informed of a European aircraft carrier project. The priority mission of this fund will be to ensure our sovereignty in armaments and to enable us to engage together in research programmes. This project does not provide for the formation of an army. The European intervention initiative, which we have launched, is not part of the European Union. It brings together European states that have expressed their willingness to share their military capacity to conduct joint operations. In this case, we are associated with the United Kingdom. This initiative brings together thirteen countries, ten of which have formally signed the commitment and three have just joined it. As I have just said, it is not a European army but bilateral cooperation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u86	It's a start, you know it very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u87	I repeat this because it is important: the European Union is not linked to this project, which corresponds to a voluntary approach by the States, carried out on a bilateral basis. With regard to cohesion policy, also mentioned by Mrs de Sarnez, we are firmly committed to the social and fiscal condition. Ms Panot accused the Structural Funds of promoting an ultra-liberal vision of the economy when it is aimed at local actors, mayors, communities of communes, departments and regions. The State must redouble its efforts, particularly in the fiscal and social fields, to ensure that these funds do not lead to an unfair view of our European economy. With regard to the subject of migration, we wish to create a new instrument for development and international cooperation. France would like 10% of this envelope to be devoted to capacity-building support for the countries of origin of migrants; The aim will be to help them control migratory flows by creating civil registration services to identify persons or by managing their own borders, which is not always the case. This instrument will support our international migration coordination policy. Some of you consider Frontex a European fortress.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u88	Of course, 10,000 agents!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u89	It's not working!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u90	But Frontex's first mission is to fight against smugglers. If the border is of no use, smugglers take it as a sieve and take advantage of it to enrich themselves and live from human misery. The commitment is strong. I was born the year the Schengen Agreement was signed. It was clear at the time that this agreement was based on two legs: respect for the external borders must guarantee freedom of movement within. Today, freedom of internal movement is undeniable but we have not sufficiently muscled the other leg. Controlling the borders to find out who goes in and out of your home is not to build a fortress, but to give oneself the means to organize and fight against smugglers. With regard to the fight against climate change, which many of you have addressed, Mr Holroyd will point out that policy is cross-cutting. The Green new deal includes an agricultural component, a cohesion component, but also measures relating to territorial development, innovation and research, not to mention the link we want to establish with the European Investment Bank to become a European climate bank. We hope that 40% of the European budget will be devoted to achieving climate, environmental, biodiversity and pollution objectives. Today, only the European Socialist Party defends a position close to ours by proposing to dedicate 30% of the budget. We can do better. It is up to us to explain and defend our position. By pooling climate and environmental issues in the fight against pollution and for biodiversity, we can do much better at European level. The common agricultural policy is another cross-cutting subject and, in my view, a genuine policy of sovereignty. To those who accuse him of costing money, I would simply like to recall two figures: 0.3% of European GDP is deployed on 80% of our continent, represented by the fields and forests that are being exploited. To find it excessive to dedicate 0.3% of our common wealth – 30% of the 1% of the European budget compared to European GDP – is to look rather narrowly at public investment that we must give to the service of an essential natural good, that of feeding ourselves on quality products, grown on our continent, in accordance with the standards we have laid down. The CAP is a support that we need to strengthen – I think we all agree. It must become a tool for investment and transition to help farmers change their practices, diversify their production, increase their range, and build up sectors. We will not succeed if farmers do not regain the serenity of their income, in the face of the vagaries of climate, markets and production. That is why I am always very critical of our European partners who consider this support for farmers' income as a subsidy. How do you want a farmer who has lost all confidence to hear our multiple injunctions? Many of you have reminded him. Mrs Panot, this budget has a lot of social issues, a lot of convergence issues. Without trying to convince you, I would like to give you some clarification. France has made a strong commitment to maintain the funds of the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived, also mentioned by Mrs Karamanli, particularly with regard to food aid. Let us remember that half of the budget for the local missions that work in the most difficult territories of our Republic depends on Europe. The programme of the European Youth Initiative and the personalized support of drop-outs respond to a very strong commitment. Many communities with access to cohesion funds, particularly in transition regions, are carrying out projects that promote development without neglecting the social dimension. All the actions we take in support of training address social issues. It is a pity to describe a budget that only serves world trade. The Structural Funds are convergence funds. I do not know whether support for the development of rural communities is a social policy, but I think it is necessary to defend it. Mr. Paluszkiewicz and other Members raised the issue of the use of funds. I thank Mr Holroyd for presenting the results of our action to Amiens. I pledge to you that we will work collectively, involving parliamentarians and departments, to simplify forms, procedures and improve cash flow. It is not normal for associations, after receiving the approval of Europe, to receive the funds only two years later. If Europe has approved their project, we should be able to move the funds forward. My services are working with the Caisse des dépôts et consignations to provide each project holder with guarantees that enable him or her to obtain funds more quickly from his or her usual bank. We are also working to improve the Osiris software, an infernal machine that must unlock European funds from the Leader programme as well as aid for bio and agro-environmental and climate measures; This software poses a lot of difficulties...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u91	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u92	...and all Members who wish to join me to think about it. With regard to VAT, let us clarify one point: we do not give the European Union a share of our VAT revenue. Each Member State applies different VAT rates and uses different calculation methods, but a unified calculation method is used to determine a base, to which a multiple – 0.3% for France is applied. Mr Castellani pointed out the 0.15 % rate applied to Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden; This rate corresponds to the discounts granted and to which we oppose. Indeed, if we set up common bases – I think you are a number to defend the ACCIS directives – we should lead to a unified VAT and a common rate. That's why we're fighting to put an end to the discounts. Some of you have raised the issue of administrative expenses. France also believes that we should make further efforts on the European Union's payroll and operating budget. The deflator remains one of my little battles. The inflation forecast is set at 2% in the European budget but if the price dynamics in Europe were 2%, Mr Draghi and Mrs Lagarde would have much less to do! We must correct this inconsistency. On the one hand, we cannot tell the European Central Bank that inflation is too low, and on the other hand, we cannot base our budget forecasts on 2% inflation. This practice is expensive for net contributors because the money they pay does not correspond to any expenditure and serves only to secure the European Union in the face of a price dynamic that does not exist. I therefore need your support to ensure that our national contribution is effectively spent. As far as own resources are concerned, Mr Woerth and other Members have alerted us about the risk that they will hide or disguise an increase in taxation by households or businesses. However, if it is a clean resource that does not involve this risk, it is indeed the one arising from the carbon tax at the borders, which helps to combat unfair competition and which is paid by importers in Europe. I need you to support her.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u93	On whose back?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u94	No one, Mr Lecoq, since it is a matter for the state to apply tariffs on carbon. Today, customs officers have no problems in applying tariffs in ports such as Rotterdam. We could take action on steel, aluminum and cement, which are globally standardized goods and which we know where and under what conditions they are produced. Why not decide, when produced according to standards that lead to the rejection of a lot of CO in the atmosphere, to internalise the standard differential, which would bring money to the European Union without weighing on households? Such a measure would really pose no risk to households: it would even protect jobs in Europe. The GAFA tax would have been a very good own resource. Discussions, which continue at the OECD, are quite well under way. I am aware of the Committee on Finance's vigilance on this matter; I need your voice to defend our position, especially when you meet parliamentarians from other countries. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Bourlanges and Mrs Karamanli because if they bring their arguments across Europe, they will help us move forward. Mrs Le Grip, you asked me about Greece's lending and debt relief programmes. The mechanics are very simple. In 2011, France granted a bilateral loan to Greece, with interest being paid back to the European Union by France, after collecting it. It is not about making money on Greece's account, which has already made a lot of efforts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u95	It is Europe that gets rich on the back of Greece!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u96	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I am surprised, Mrs. Le Grip, that you abstained from section 36. The Republicans group seemed to me, so far, to have no state of mind with Europe. But you join the clan of those for whom criticism of Europe is proof of love. On the contrary, I believe that we must support her in order to love her.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u97	On Article 36, I have an application for a public vote before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Ludovic Pajot to support Amendment No. 2483.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u98	France's contribution to the European Union's budget is steadily increasing, without our compatriots seeing the positive effects that should naturally result. With a trade deficit of almost 32 billion euros, we can no longer afford to continue to be generous with the money of the French because these billions given to the European Union do not fall from the sky. Our country no longer has the means to finance this type of contribution. It is EUR 8 billion net that is paid each year to this legal framework which the European Union represents. For what benefit? Mass immigration and migrant quotas, unfair competition that ruins our competitiveness, budgetary control that limits our sovereignty: it is urgent to say stop. For all these reasons, we want to reduce France's contribution by EUR 5 billion, which will allow the State to allocate these billions of savings to the financing of public services, starting with regalian, police, justice and health.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u99	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u100	This amendment is of no use. We are legally obliged, in order to ensure the functioning of the institutions in which we are engaged, to vote for a certain sum – unless you wish to be under-implemented, before having to return to the budget originally planned. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u101	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u102	Disadvantaged too. This type of amendment is a reflection. If we withdraw EUR 5 billion from our contribution to the European Union's budget, it will no longer be able to finance certain programmes, such as those for research, the CAP or measures to support young dropouts. However, if your ambition is to review the Treaties, to disarticulate Europe and to reduce its action to the congruent portion, I can understand your amendment. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] Today, with the mechanisms and operation that we have, 5 billion euros cut off from our contribution would be so much money that would not come back to France. Indeed, our net contribution, that is, the difference between what we send and what we receive, amounts to 0.3 percentage points of GDP. It is not expensive to pay for defence and stability issues, for a vision of what our continent is, for the peace that European construction has provided us for seventy years, for the pooling of resources that enable us to maintain our position vis-à-vis China and the United States. Mr Bourlanges, this measure would obviously be legally impossible; But, moreover, by reasoning in political terms, we would discover that we would have to lose it first.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u103	I put to the vote Rule 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u104	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 63 Number of votes cast 57 Absolute majority 29 For adoption 52 Against 5
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u105	On Friday evening, the Assembly had stopped under Rule 23. I have before me two amendments, Nos 2971 and 2972, which can be presented together. Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u106	The purpose of this amendment is to secure the amount of the levy from the revenue of the State set up in Article 23. The aim is to transform into SRP an allocation of 90552000 euros already included in article L. 6500 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities – CGCT. On behalf of the government of Polynesia and the fifty-seven elected members of the Assembly of Polynesia, I would like to ask you to make sure that the amount is secured by including it in the future version of article L. 6500. This amount seems obvious to you, since it is now defined by the finance bill. But this endowment is not like the others: created in 1996, following the last nuclear tests, it has an important symbolic dimension for the Polynesians. Over time, however, it has been globalized to 18 billion Pacific francs, divided into three allocations, and sometimes narrowed, as in 2013 and 2014. A few years ago, we were able to restore it to 90.5 million euros and, during the last reform of the status of Polynesia, the Government heard our request to secure this overall allocation of autonomy: the Overseas Ministry and the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities then jointly proposed its transformation into SRP. When Article 23 was discussed in Polynesia, the Polynesians were shocked to see no longer the amount of the endowment at the heart of the CGC. I ask you to support these amendments, and even to make them a minimum amount – I would remind you that in 20 years this allocation has never been revised: this is the subject of Amendment No 2971. The aim of the withdrawal amendment No 2972 is at least to include this amount again in Article L. 6500. It would not eat bread and would satisfy the Polynesians.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u107	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u108	Even if it may seem superfate, I am in favour of Amendment No 2972. I ask that Amendment No 2971 be withdrawn for his benefit; Otherwise, the Commission's opinion on the latter would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u109	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Public Affairs and Public Accounts, to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u110	Mrs Sage, you have first expressed the wish that the State, through the Government, secure the revenue of Polynesia: this is the objective that we pursue by transforming the allocation into a revenue levy, regulated by the LOLF – organic law on finance laws. This should reassure the Polynesian Government of the Government's will to persist in its efforts, to fulfil the commitments it has made and to have this levy adopted in every finance law. The amendments that you have defended also express the hope that the amount of this levy will be included in the law. The Government cannot support it, for reasons of form. This amount is shown in the tables summarizing SRPs; It is therefore included in the finance law, but under the annexes, like all SRPs. In addition, Article 34 of the LOLF provides for the annual evaluation of SRPs, and we agree that the criteria for this evaluation meet Polynesia's request. I therefore understand the concern of the Polynesians and their desire to see this amount engraved in the marble, but it is already so by its inclusion in the annexes, and this measure, in addition to being superfluous, would contravene article 34 of the LOLF. You see me obliged to give an unfavorable opinion on both amendments, which in no way means that the Government would like to call into question what has been done. On the contrary, this commitment is the translation of those of the President of the Republic: to transform the endowment into SRP is to guarantee the security of the resources of French Polynesia.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u111	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u112	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur-general for his opinion in favour of the withdrawal amendment. Secretary of State, I understand your arguments, I understand that the Government is creating this SRP in order to secure our resources, but in return I would like you to understand the deflagration caused by this news in our territory and the concern raised by this annual review. We would achieve a common goal if we could re-enter this amount in the CGC – I would remind you that it is currently included in the CGC, and it is of course necessary to re-register it annually. This would reassure the Polynesians and constitute a highly symbolic gesture. I agree to withdraw the first amendment, but I hope that the second amendment will be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u113	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u114	I maintain my view in favour of the withdrawal amendment No 2972. In any event, it would cost nothing: its scope is symbolic and political, as Mrs Sage has expressed very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u115	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u116	I hear the concern and expectations expressed by Mrs Sage...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u117	I'm not the only one!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u118	...and I know that it brings us the word of a territory, but there are formal rules, such as the LOLF, which oblige me to maintain my unfavorable opinion. This SRP represents for the State an increase of 10 million euros for Polynesia, which is a sufficient demonstration of the Government's willingness to honour its commitments to support Polynesia. In addition, I repeat, on the one hand, the amount of this SRP is already included in the table and the annexes; On the other hand, all SRPs can be reassessed at any time, as well as staffing. Incorporating this amount into the CTGC would therefore be unnecessary or even counterproductive. This does not detract – I say it for the clarity of the debates and to reassure the Polynesian elected officials who are listening to us – from the Government's determination to maintain its assistance, to ensure that this SRP is renewed year after year, so that the Republic remains at the side of Polynesia.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u119	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u120	Secretary of State, I just wanted to remind you that this SRP would not be the only one whose amount appears elsewhere than in the finance law, and draw your attention to how this resource could evolve upwards, since it has not been revalued in 20 years. Finally, although our views differ today on the form, I thank you for these substantive clarifications, which are in the right direction and will enable the Government's intentions to be formally reflected in the record of this meeting. You will understand, however, that, out of respect for the opinion given by the Polynesian Government and the Assembly of Polynesia, I maintain this amendment and invite our colleagues to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u121	Amendment No 2766 by Mr Joël Giraud is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u122	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 164, 251 and 1178. Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 164.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u123	Article 24 deals with financial compensation related to the transfer of competences to the regions, in particular as part of the apprenticeship reform. It must be noted that this mechanism, which must be fully implemented from 2020 onwards, is a source of concern. This amendment by Marc Le Fur proposes to return to the spirit of the provisions on the financing of transfers of powers, and to recall that the calculation must be based on data relating either to the current year or to the average of the years preceding the transfer. The way in which the remainder of the transfer is calculated can be very random, and its compensation is not a guarantee of sustainability for the regions. Finally, it is recalled that the total amount of the financial compensation referred to, i.e. EUR 229468445, is only of a provisional value and should be modified in the light of the work to be carried out by the Advisory Commission on the valuation of expenses. The estimate that it must produce is not known. It would therefore be important not to freeze a transfer amount that could penalize the regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u124	Amendment No 251 by Mrs Emilie Bonnivard is being defended. Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 1178.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u125	This amendment, tabled at the initiative of Charles de Courson, is identical to the previous one. By letter dated 17 September 2019, the Government had outlined the method it intended to use in order to ensure financial neutrality for the regions in the reform of learning, in compliance with the provisions of article 72-2 of the Constitution. In particular, the Government provided that the order establishing the individual amounts would be reviewed by the Advisory Commission on the Assessment of Burdens – CCEC – in accordance with the procedure provided for the financing of transfers of powers set out in articles L. 1614-1 et seq. of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities. By directly mentioning the individual amounts in the law, the Government preempts the work to be carried out by the Commission, in particular with regard to the method to be used – annuities and scope – and the contradictory authentication of the data used to calculate these individual allocations. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to return to the spirit of previous provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u126	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u127	The Government's approach is to submit a joint report from the General Inspectorate of Finance, the General Inspectorate of Administration and the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs. Beyond that, when we identify phenomena such as those you describe and problems of compensation, I believe that the State must actually fulfil its commitments, but that the regions must also fulfil theirs, especially when they are in a situation of overcompensation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u128	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u129	We have adopted an expenditure assessment approach that is consistent with the doctrine developed by the Advisory Commission on Burden Assessment and which, above all, is fair, since it allows for the cost of learning expenses incurred by regions without penalizing the resources allocated to the exercise of other competencies. On the other hand, as indicated by the Prime Minister in the letter that was cited, 2017 is the upper limit of the period for calculating learning expenditure, namely 2013-2017 for investment and 2015-2017 for operations, in order to obtain the most representative amount possible of the level of regional expenditure on learning. Finally, the same methodology should be applied to all regions in order to measure the gap between resources and expenditure. We therefore wish these amendments to be withdrawn; Otherwise, the Government's opinion would be unfavourable. The draft finance law provides for two envelopes to be maintained for the benefit of the regions to finance operating and investment expenditure. This is, in any case, in our view, the most just and timely method of calculating the support that the State must provide to the regions in the context of the reform of learning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u130	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u131	I have a question about article 24, which is important. There are three types of learning funding situations, and the last category corresponds to regions that are sometimes recaptured from their resources. This is the case in the Pays de la Loire region, with more than 8 million euros being recovered from resources. As a result, I, too, wonder about the accuracy of the assessments related to these compensations, as there are significant variations from one region to another. The Pays de la Loire region has invested a great deal in learning over the last ten years, which means that it is more advanced in this field. A resumption of this magnitude is a matter of concern.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u132	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u133	I understand Ms. Dupont's question: as part of an assessment of expense transfers, it is never pleasant for a community, or more generally for one of the stakeholders in the discussion, to be in a situation of recovery rather than payment. This is due to the fact that the method of assessing the transfer of expenses takes into account expenditure and revenue, and the difference between the two, without prejudging in any way the ambition or volumes involved in the territories concerned. This is why there are positive differentials for most regions, but negative differentials for others when it is found that, within the scope in question, revenue is higher than expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u134	I have before me another set of identical amendments, Nos 165, 252 and 1181. Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 165.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u135	The law for the freedom to choose one's professional future provides that the regions will receive two grants, one to support the investment of apprentice training centres – CFA. France's mission will be to provide the regions with these resources. The Government proposes to change the calculation base by taking as a reference the 2017-2018 average, which will allow the allocation of €180 million among the regions. The purpose of this amendment, of which Marc Le Fur is the first signatory, is to separate the calculation of the amount of the investment allocation from the determination of the individual allocations, the calculation of which will be determined by decree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u136	Amendments Nos 252 by Mrs Emilie Bonnivard and 1181 by Mr Charles de Courson are defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these three identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u137	As a reminder, two envelopes are provided for compensation: an envelope of €180 million to support CFA investment according to the investment expenditure of the regions, and an envelope of €138 million to support the operation of CFAs by increasing the take-over of apprenticeship contracts. I am not in favour of your amendment because it is not necessary to make such a dissociation, the first calculation goes with the second. Such dissociation would give regional executives less visibility for 2020 budgets.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u138	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 2129.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u139	If the State wishes, in accordance with the Prime Minister's commitment to the regions, to ensure the budgetary neutrality of the learning reform for the regions, it seems necessary to ensure that the funds allocated effectively correspond to expenditure related to support for learning. This traceability will also ensure sound competition between the branches of industry, which are now responsible for financing apprenticeships, and the regions, which will benefit from public funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u140	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u141	Unfavorable opinion, if only because I am analysing this amendment as a sign of distrust of the regions which is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u142	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u143	The same opinion, especially since the Labour Code already provides that the regions must submit a detailed report each year on expenditure on learning: the amendment is therefore satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u144	Mr Jean-Luc Poudroux has the floor to support Amendment No. 2285.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u145	Article 25 organises the recentralisation of active solidarity income – RSA – for the Department of La Réunion. More specifically, subparagraphs 29 et seq. provide that an agreement on the modalities for the implementation of this benefit shall be concluded between the State and the family allowance fund of Réunion. The aim of this amendment is to clarify that the local management agreement to be concluded is within the existing institutional framework, that it is in line with the objective and management agreement between the State and the National Fund for Family Allowances, and that it aims to promote the development of services for beneficiaries, to guarantee quality and access to rights, to mobilise staff and to modernise the information system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u146	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u147	Since I am not a party to the negotiations concerning the Reunion, it is difficult for me to analyse all this. Nevertheless, it seems to me that this clarification is not necessary, since the State takes over the training and services of the RSA in the Department of La Réunion. It should be left with responsibility for compliance with the national and departmental conventions to which it is a signatory. Unfavorable opinion, pending the position of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u148	So what is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u149	The Government agreed with the rapporteur. The recentralisation of the RSA in La Réunion is a strong commitment of the State to support the Department of Réunion. This project was built with the departmental council and the local actors concerned, first among them the Caisse d'allocations familiales – CAF – de la Réunion. It reflects what has been decided for Guyana and Mayotte since 1 January 2019. A management agreement is therefore provided for between the State and the FCA. This agreement will detail the conditions for the training and allocation of the RSA, specify the modalities for the exercise of these powers by the CIF, set objectives, in particular with regard to the commitment of quality of service and control, and will be consistent with the objective and management agreement concluded between the State and the family sector for the period 2018-2020. One of the key challenges of re-centralization is to improve the recipient orientation process. Today, nearly 10,000 beneficiaries are not oriented towards an accompanying offer. It is therefore expected that the CAF, together with the departmental council, will systematically and more quickly guide beneficiaries from the end of 2020. In order to manage these new skills, it will be able to count on the management costs provided for in this draft finance law to the tune of EUR 1100000 in 2020. This is a renovated framework, which has been the subject of a great deal of consultation and which has the agreement of the departmental council and the family branch. This commitment, which is part of the fight against poverty, may convince you to withdraw the amendment, Mr Poudroux. Otherwise, the Government's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u150	Mr Jean-Luc Poudroux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u151	Thank you for that clarification, Secretary of State. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u152	Mr Joël Giraud, in support of Amendment No. 2769, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u153	It shall be worded, together with the following, up to and including No 2773.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u154	Amendments Nos 2770, 2771, 2772 and 2773 by Mr Joël Giraud are therefore drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u155	I have before me two amendments, Nos 3094 and 900, which can be discussed jointly. The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 3094 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u156	The aim is to change the financial framework for the recovery of resources in the Department of the Meeting necessary for the implementation of the right to full compensation of the State under the recentralisation of the RSA – 607.4 million euros are at stake. The purpose of this amendment is to take account of the desire expressed by the Department of La Réunion to incorporate tobacco tax proceeds into the scheme. The draft finance law for 2020 gives priority to the resumption of the historical resources of compensation and support paid by the State in connection with the exercise of the competence relating to the RSA and the RSO – solidarity income – for the Department of La Réunion: fractions of the internal consumption tax on energy products – ICTPE –, departmental mobilization funds for integration and finally the mechanism of compensation pegged. In addition, the lump sum allocation of the global operating allocation – DGF – of La Réunion is being taken up. The amendment does not introduce any changes concerning the resumption of these resources. With regard to the balance of EUR 100700000 to cover the State's right to full compensation, it will be financed half by a portion of the proceeds from the tobacco tax paid to Réunion and, where appropriate, by a resumption of the DGF's compensation allocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u157	Mr Jean-Luc Poudroux has the floor to support Amendment No. 900.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u158	I will take this opportunity to respond to the one who has just been defended by the Secretary of State. The request for the recentralization of the RSA made by the Department of La Réunion was accepted by the Government. I welcome this decision, which aims to ensure the most equitable expression of national solidarity. The amendment I am proposing pursues the same objective. Today, the amount of the RSA amounts to 640 million euros for La Réunion, 500 million of which are financed by the State and 140 million by the departmental council. Since the state takes over the RSA, the departmental council will have to contribute up to 140 million. In what form? The Department suggests that this amount be deducted from the proceeds of the tobacco tax collected by the community, which amounts to 180 million euros, while the State proposed to deduct this sum from the total operating allocation paid to the Department. In part, the Government's amendment amends the draft law, which provides that 50% will be taken on the DGF and 50% on the proceeds of the tobacco tax. This is a step, but an insufficient step because it runs counter to national solidarity. Solidarity is the overall operating allocation, not the tobacco tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u159	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u160	As the Government's amendment has not been discussed in committee, I am issuing a favourable opinion in my personal capacity. I understand Mr Poudroux's concerns, and we have already discussed them briefly with regard to the adoption of Amendment No 3092 to Article 21, a few days ago, the consequence of which is the Government's amendment. Of course, taking into account the demands of the Department of La Réunion is only partial, but it seems to me that the Government's amendment proposes a further resumption. As this is funded on tobacco, I understand your reaction, Mr Poudroux, but I honestly believe that the Government's amendment corresponds to what can really be taken into account at the moment. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u161	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u162	Indeed, the agreement we give at the request of the Department of La Réunion is partial, but similar to what we do when this situation arises elsewhere. It reflects our willingness to respond to a request while remaining within the traditional framework of the resumptions. The Government therefore maintained its amendment and gave an opinion unfavourable to that of Mr. Poudroux.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u163	Mr Jean-Luc Poudroux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u164	I stress that the exchanges between the State and the Department's departments suggested that full account should be taken of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u165	Amendments Nos 2774, 2776, 2777, 2778, 2779 and 2780 by the rapporteur-general are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u166	I have before me two amendments, Nos 898 and 899, which can be presented together. Mr Jean-Luc Poudroux has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u167	Amendment No 898 is intended to extend the duration of the solidarity fund for departments beyond the two years provided for in Article 25. Similarly, No 899 calls for the stabilization fund to be maintained beyond the two-year period foreseen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u168	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u169	Opinions against these two amendments. It is a matter of justice for the other departments: we cannot allow differentiated arrangements for the solidarity fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u170	I have before me five amendments, Nos 1727, 1728, 1729, 1730 and 3103, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1727.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u171	It aims to have the increase in vertical equalisation financed by the State, in the case of the DSR – the allocation of rural solidarity – and the DSU – the allocation of urban solidarity and social cohesion. Until recently, the growth of the DSU and the DSR was 50 per cent funded by the state and 50 per cent financed by other communities. Today, the municipalities themselves finance the increase in equalization. Let's go back to a situation where, when the state decides to increase equalization, it finances it itself!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u172	At least in part!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u173	The three amendments Nos 1728, 1729 and 1730 can be presented in a consolidated format. Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u174	These three amendments, tabled on the initiative of François Pupponi, manage the amendment which had been tabled in Article 21 to increase the general operating allocation by EUR 180 million in order to finance the increase of the DSU and the DSR by EUR 90 million each. As Mrs Pires Beaune has just pointed out, these allocations are the only dynamic recipe for the budget of the poorest municipalities in our country, be they rural or urban. These municipalities suffer from the lack of real fiscal leverage, weak compensation for local direct tax exemptions and the freeze on horizontal equalisation initiated by the 2019 Finance Bill. On the other hand, equalization is not intended to be a mere compensation mechanism, but rather a mechanism for reducing the wealth gap between rich and poor communes. A dynamic vertical equalization is therefore necessary. This is the subject of Amendment No 1728. Amendments Nos 1729 and 1730 are fallback amendments, the amounts of which differ.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u175	[[Exclaims on several benches]] The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 3103 of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u176	This is an amendment to coordinate with Amendment No 3094, which has just been adopted, concerning the modification of the financial scheme for the recovery of the resources of La Réunion in the context of the recentralisation of the RSA.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u177	We do not have the text of the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u178	[[Exclaims]] Refresh your tablets, several amendments have been removed. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u179	Amendments Nos 1727 to 1730 have the consequences of amendments that have not been adopted. Request for withdrawal, therefore, or failing unfavourable notice. The Government's amendment, if it is coordinated, should not pose a particular problem, but, not having it in front of you, I am not in a position to give you a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u180	He's not available!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u181	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u182	I am confused, first of all because this amendment was tabled extremely late...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u183	Too late!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u184	...and then because I've mistakenly introduced No. 3102 to you. The amendments tabled by Mrs Pires Beaune and Mrs Pinel are, as the rapporteur-general pointed out, coordination amendments with amendments which have not been adopted. In my view, they no longer need to be, which justifies an unfavorable opinion, beyond the substantive reasons that could be put forward. I therefore come back to the coordination amendment No 3103, which is particularly important and deals with large amounts. The National Assembly adopted an amendment No. 2442 after Article 5, which aims to exempt from the housing tax on principal residences taxpayers who benefited from the exemption in 2018. This measure results in an increase of EUR 226 million in the levy on revenue from tax relief compensation – totaling EUR 2 billion – including EUR 80 million for exempt persons since 2015 and EUR 146 million for exempt persons since 2016 and 2017; These include homes made up of elderly people. These 226 billion increases are not managed and will not be included in the adjustment variables.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u185	Ah, that's more!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u186	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u187	I would like to react to the various amendments that have been tabled concerning the recentralisation of the RSA in La Réunion. As Special Rapporteur of the mission to examine this recentralisation, I have conducted several hearings over the last few days and I would have liked to have been informed in advance of this development. It is unpleasant to discover in session a last minute measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u189	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u190	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u191	I ask for a suspension of the meeting for the time that the Government's amendment is distributed to us, as it still does not appear on the tablets.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u192	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u193	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u194	Amendment No 2930 of the Finance Committee is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u195	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1806.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u196	It aims to increase by EUR 1 million the levy made on State revenue for the benefit of the Corsican community under the Corsican Massif Committee. It is known that the former majorities of the island had not activated a massive committee, so that Corsica lost, for many years, financing for the island's internal development, which would have been very useful. In 2016, the new territorial majority activated the Massif Committee and the Corsican Assembly adopted the first-ever mountain development plan in 2017. This amendment makes a catch-up of appropriations in favour of the Corsican Massif Committee for the development of the mountain in Corsica.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u197	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u198	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u199	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u200	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u201	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u202	It is delicate to give such a brutal answer without explaining it. In substance, we ask the question of the transfer of powers between the state and the community of Corsica: this is one example among others. The transfer is generally subject to a global subsidy based on the island's jurisdiction. Transfers should be discussed both in terms of the substance, the amount and the appropriateness of each of them. We call for dynamic transfers. As for the tax question, you know our opinion: it would be preferable for all Corsica to have the competence to adapt, capable of promoting social justice and development, with a posteriori review of legality and constitutionality. Unfortunately, we are far from such an approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u203	We come to the amendments on the additional article after Article 26. Mr Lionel Causse has the floor to support Amendment No. 793.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u204	It aims to extend the scheme of the value added tax compensation fund – VATIF – to public health institutions. The extension of this scheme to public hospitals would be an important lever for meeting their investment needs. It would be fully in line with the 400 million euros spent on the investment of the "My Health 2022" plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u205	I have before me four amendments, No 1207 corrected, 253, 401 and 1209, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Eric Bothorel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1207 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u206	Amendment No 1207, as amended, and No 1209, which comes shortly thereafter, is intended to ensure that local authorities and their groups benefit from the responsibilities of the VATF for the expenses incurred in the use of cloud computing – the cloud. Today, the only capital expenditure eligible for compensation through the VATCF is non-recurring expenditure on the acquisition of equipment intended to remain in the community's heritage for a long time, or expenditure on improvement or repair to increase the value of an already acquired asset. However, cloud computing services are used through subscriptions to recurring services that are provided and maintained under operational conditions by an outside provider. As a result, there is no acquisition of physical equipment or software, nor is there any enrichment of the community's heritage, and therefore no potential compensation through the TVCF. This is why, in order to support the digital transformation of communities and the migration of their traditional IT systems to more innovative and less costly cloud computing solutions, also more environmentally responsible, it is necessary to put an end to the tax distortions caused by the current conditions for the eligibility of IT expenditure in the TVCF, by integrating the costs of subscription into cloud services. Amendment No 1209, which has the same purpose, provides for a flat rate of compensation. The parameters it adopts guarantee a budgetary economy for the State and for the communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u207	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to support Amendment No. 253.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u208	It proposes to extend the benefit of the TVCF to include cloud computing services and software expenditures as services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u209	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 401.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u210	He has the same object. We act for the sake of consistency: cloud computing is one of the priority projects of the digital transformation of the state, so it would seem logical to be able to support the local authorities in this direction, especially since digital transformation has fallen behind in a large number of communities, due in particular to the lack of compensation by the FCTVA, when using cloud systems. As Mr. Bothorel pointed out, such support would be a source of savings for everyone, communities and the state. Indeed, using less expensive software rental services and cloud services would reduce the level of VATF for the state. It is therefore a measure of saving public money.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u211	Amendment No 1209 by Mr Eric Bothorel has already been defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u212	Disfavorable to the four amendments under joint discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u213	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u214	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u215	Mr Eric Bothorel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u216	Could we get a little more precise explanations? Given the arguments we have put forward, that would be a minimum.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u217	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u218	The expenditure on cloud computing services represents operating costs which, in the Government's view, do not correspond to the objective of the VATF, which is intended to support local investment. This would set a precedent for potential expansions to other operating expenses, which are not intended to be included in the scheme and which would bring a financial risk to the State budget. In addition, the application of a specific flat rate to cloud-related expenditures is not in line with the FCTVA scheme, which is based on a flat rate of 16.404% applicable to the entire eligible base. In any event, the measure would complicate the automation of the TVCF already postponed to 2021, whose operational work is in progress. In addition, the state is deploying a state cloud project and communities should be able to benefit from the seeding infrastructure. Expanding the TVCF to cover cloud and other IT expenditures would obviously run counter to the Government's initiative in this area. These are the reasons for our unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u219	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u220	Mr Minister, you are telling us that, as it stands, the FCTV does not allow these amendments to be adopted. But we are here to change the law. Consumption patterns are changing for everyone, citizens and also the state, which is also committed to this digital transformation. I feel that communities are being forced to stay in the old world of consumerism, especially with regard to these new digital uses that are developing and generating real savings by accompanying digital transformation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u221	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u222	Today, it is more interesting for a community to use a cloud service than to buy a server. The Government advocates digital transformation, dematerialization and Internet access for all users without supporting communities in this transformation. It is regrettable that we cannot change the law in this direction, when it is our role.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u223	Mr Eric Bothorel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u224	It does not seem to me that these amendments contradict the will of the Government. On the contrary, they support its strategy around the cloud in three circles. The law evolves less rapidly than technology: today, the purchase of IT infrastructure depends mainly on contracts and remote software. As for the argument that this measure would be a precedent, I would like to point out that this is already the case: in 2016, the VATF included road expenses. There is also nothing to prevent us from adopting sectoral legislative measures. As Ms. Magnier pointed out, it is better to make decisions today than to refer them to a more comprehensive future reform of the TVCF: this would send a very strong signal, in line with the Government's efforts to digitize all community services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u225	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u226	Our role here is to adapt the texts to the modes of operation. The current system is inconsistent. If a community decides to make investments by financing them directly or by borrowing, it benefits from the TVCF. On the other hand, if it decides to use a long-term lease on the same subject, it is not eligible for VATF. This is inconsistent, because depending on the financing and operating methods chosen, the situation is not the same. There is a need to reflect on the operation of the TVCF, which no longer corresponds to the reality of the ground or to what is required of our communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u227	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-21-O1033.u228	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the first part of the Finance Bill for 2020. The meeting is adjourned.
