ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u2	Mr Emmanuel Maquet, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 842, concerning bank charges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u3	A year ago, banks committed to freezing bank charges in 2019 and capping incident charges for the most financially fragile customers at 25 euros per month. While the validity of this commitment is coming to an end, a joint investigation by the magazine 60 million consumers and the National Union of Family Associations – UNAF – revealed that many clients in difficulty have never benefited from it. Already, the tariff grids of the main banks foresee a general recovery of the increase in fees. The Government believes that their regulatory cap is not the most effective solution, as banks could offset its effects by increasing other costs. It is precisely in such cases that the French expect political decisions. Bank charges are highly diverse, and some are more unfair than others. While everyone is housed in the same brand for account keeping and credit card charges, other fees, such as agios and cheque rejection fees, are an additional penalty imposed on those who are already in difficulty. In many cases, these particularly punitive costs are charged without clients being aware of them. The challenge is therefore to improve prevention. It would be normal for banks to notify their customers before meeting a request that could trigger penalties, even if the transaction was put on hold. Mr Secretary of State, my question is this: in the context of a sustained decline in interest rates, is the Government planning a no less sustainable increase in bank charges? If so, how does the Government intend to make them simpler, more understandable and, above all, more equitable?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u4	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u5	Mr Maquet, thank you for your question, which allows me to give some clarifications about bank charges, including the balance sheet of the ceiling on incident charges – announced last December by the banks – for the 3.4 million French people considered fragile. In the first half of this year, the Supervisory and Resolution Authority (ACPR) and the Banking Inclusion Observatory (IBO) led to the main institutions in the place of controls, which showed that the ceiling on incident charges had been applied by the banks. For financially fragile people who pay for them, the average monthly figure was 17 euros. At the same time, 58000 additional customers – or 435000 in total at the end of June 2019 – benefited from the specific offer and its protective effect, with incident costs averaging 8 euros per month, which is significantly below the ceiling of 20 euros per month. In the end, more than one million people have seen a cap on their bank charges since the commitments made in December 2018. It seems to me that we should welcome this assessment, even if it remains insufficient. It should not hide the fact that the technical implementation of the commitments undertaken by banks has sometimes led to transitional friction, in particular with regard to the automatic application of the ceiling on incident charges to certain customers and the reimbursement of costs exceeding the ceiling levied when banks were working on the implementation of their commitments. These difficulties should be quickly addressed. We also expect banking institutions to continue their efforts to strengthen the detection of clients in situations of financial fragility. In this regard, the work carried out within the OIB seems to us to be particularly important. Information on bank charges has been significantly enhanced in recent years. For this reason, the Government has preferred to focus on effectively reducing the cost of incidents and strengthening the detection of financial fragility by banks. The combination of these actions will help alleviate our most troubled citizens. Finally, I would like to recall that the banks have fulfilled the other commitment they made to the President of the Republic a year ago regarding the freezing of bank rates for 2019. In any case, we must pay particular attention to the overall situation of the banking sector, in the context of low or even negative rates that we know. For the time being, we believe that there is nothing to suggest a general increase in bank charges, which have been relatively contained in recent years, in contrast to the costs of other services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u6	Mr Emmanuel Maquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u7	Secretary of State, the investigation conducted by the magazine 60 million consumers and UNAF does not encourage you to share your optimism. It is reported that 78% of prohibited bank and over-indebted clients did not benefit from a cap on incident charges. As for other low-income clients, accustomed to bank incidents, 91% of them had their related costs in excess of EUR 25 per month. The period of validity of last year's commitment is now coming to an end. What are we doing? When will we put banking charges in order in the jungle, which their diversity makes incomprehensible?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u8	The floor is open to Mr. Thomas Rudigoz, to put his question, No. 832, concerning the establishment of a motorway bar in the metropolis of Lyon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u9	My question is particularly topical, on this day of strike and monstrous car stoppages. It focuses on car traffic in the heart of the Lyon agglomeration. Every day, 113,000 vehicles take the roads through the heart of our city of Lyon, passing through the famous Fourvière tunnel. There are also tens of thousands of others who use the other roads and motorways in the heart of the Lyon agglomeration. This situation results in an increase in the number of pollution peaks, as is the case in many large French cities. This is a real public health problem for riparian populations. Moreover, the State is aware of this. Three years ago, exactly, in December 2016, the previous government declassified a section of the A6-A7 motorway into an urban road in order to encourage the bypass of our agglomeration by national and international traffic. Now, what do we do? To date, no operational decisions have been taken. It seems to me that two projects must be carried out. [[Smile]] The first is to introduce a tariff for transit traffic. I have defended this principle in the House, in the consideration of the mobility policy bill, and in the Finance Committee, in the context of the consideration of the finance bill for 2020. Unfortunately, to date, the Government has not acted in favour of my proposal – but I do not despair that it will be accepted by the end of the legislature! The other major project – the object of my question – is to carry out work on the motorway infrastructure, in particular on the Manissieux motorway node, in the area of Saint-Priest, and on the southern section of the A46 connecting the A43 to the A7, which needs to be extended from 2x2 to 2x3 lanes, in order to put an end to the complete thrombosis of the traffic that we see there every day. To do this, the State and the company ASF – Autoroutes du Sud de la France – will have to carry out a large motorway project. I know that this project is being monitored by the state services. In addition, care will have to be taken to allocate the third route to public transport and carpooling, as David Kimelfeld, president of Lyon's metropolis, wishes. Mr Secretary of State, my question is simple: what is the state of play in the reflection of the state services on the major construction site of the southern A46?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u10	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u11	Mr Rudigoz, you are calling the Government's attention to the 2x3-lane development project in the south A46. This motorway route, granted to the company ASF, is a very busy toll-free section – the average traffic is 65,000 vehicles per day. For several years now, the infrastructure has been regularly congested and has an increasing accidentology, which is a matter of concern to the public authorities. Aware of local expectations, the State has asked the concessionaire, as part of the motorway re-launch plan, to produce a synoptic file relating to the 2x3-lane development of the south A46 and the Manissieux motorway node. The overall cost of the operation, which still needs to be specified, is estimated at around EUR 200 million excluding tax, in value 2017. Before starting work, consultation is necessary, in accordance with the law. In this context, the Government has asked the concessionaire to refer the matter to the National Public Debate Commission (CNDP), with a view to defining the modalities for consultation with the inhabitants and associations concerned. This phase of consultation will take place as early as 2020 and will be an important step in the implementation of the project, which I confirm the Government's wish to carry it out. Jean-Baptiste Djebari, Secretary of State for Transport, will soon meet with the Prefect of the Region and will not fail to discuss this matter, which is important for your constituency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u12	Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u13	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the good news. Concertation is very important for public actors – local authorities and state representatives in the region – as well as for the populations concerned. This is an important first step. I hope that it will soon be followed by decisions to carry out the work, thanks to which we will finally relieve the heart of the Lyon agglomeration of national and international traffic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u14	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor to put her question, No 848, on animal welfare in the pig sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u15	"We don't have two hearts, one for animals and one for humans. We have a heart or we don't have one." These words of Lamartine have an increased resonance nowadays, while respect for animal condition is increasingly required among consumers' requirements. I will not be among those who denounce the mere fact of eating meat. However, the animal condition cannot be disinterested, for eating well is above all a good production. It is important to ensure that animal welfare is respected in all sectors. I would like to give the warning about the pig sector, without stigmatizing it, but by clearly pointing out practices that seem shocking and difficult to justify today. In 2018, 24 million pigs were slaughtered in France – as part of intensive breeding for 95% of them. But who says intensive breeding often says profitability, promiscuity and – unfortunately – suffering of piglets from the first days of their lives. For example, the cutting of their scalpel testicles, without anaesthesia and carelessness, is carried out to prevent the smell of boars that can emerge when the meat is cooked, even though this phenomenon concerns only 3% to 5% of the males. In France, 85% of male pigs are castrated. However, there are reliable and economically viable alternatives, which are used by our European neighbours. Castration of pigs is not the only source of suffering. In particular, caudectomy, which aims to prevent pigs from biting each other's tail, as well as cutting and grinding their teeth, all without any pain management. Let us finally mention a particularly cruel practice, called "clashing", which consists of killing the piglets too weak by throwing them against a wall. The Techniporc association considers this technique to be the most effective, while admitting that it is "unsophisticated". In this context, the European Union is putting pressure on Member States to try to put an end to these widespread practices in the pig sector. Mr Secretary of State, what is the Government's position on this matter? How do the departments of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food aim to combat animal suffering by strengthening animal welfare?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u16	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u17	Mrs Luquet, your question concerns the conditions for the treatment of animals in the pig sector, and more generally the consideration of the animal cause. As a general rule, we must admit that the way we treat animals will cease to be a subject confined to philosophical circles, such as the one led by Elizabeth de Fontenay, to become a subject of importance in society. In order to answer your question, the Government is fully aware that certain practices in the meat production sectors are not acceptable and should not continue. Moreover, they are increasingly challenged by citizens and animal protection associations, but also by the breeders themselves, who are the primary guarantors of the welfare of their animals, and who are often very keen to develop alternative practices. A few weeks ago, Didier Guillaume, Minister of Agriculture and Food – who asks you to excuse his absence this morning – announced a number of measures, including the ban on live castration of piglets, which will come into force at the end of 2021. We intend to go much further. That is why the Minister of Agriculture and Food will make further announcements in the coming weeks, with a view to ensuring the proper treatment of animals and the improvement of animal husbandry conditions. Be assured, ladies and gentlemen, that the Government is very sensitive to this issue. In addition to the work of the Government, mention should also be made of the work of the consumer, who can also contribute to the evolution of the industry's practices. He already has the choice to buy organic pork, or "Red Label", from animals raised under superior conditions of well-being.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u18	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u19	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply and for your presence in the House instead of the Minister for Agriculture and Food. I would simply point out that, while we must act on a territory-wide basis, there is also a need for a coherent policy at European level. In our European neighbours, particularly in Germany, producers look much more kindly than we do at the living conditions of animals reared as part of intensive production.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u20	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier, to put his question, No. 854, on clearance in Lozère.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u21	Let us recall, without going into the details, that the department of Lozère has suffered during the last century a strong rural exodus and a significant decrease in its labour force, particularly agricultural. Today it has 76,000 inhabitants, and has a density of fifteen inhabitants per square kilometre, which falls to two in the Causses. One of their concerns is the possibility of feeding herds in any season. The aim is therefore to move towards forage autonomy, and the restoration of old fields of cultivation, pastures or pastures invaded by spontaneous vegetation can be a response in this regard. According to the first paragraph of article L. 341-6 of the forestry code, the financial compensation or reforestation, following a clearing, is based on the rule of 1:1: for each hectare of cleared land, it is necessary to reforest 1 hectare of land – which is very difficult in the department of Lozère – or to pay a minimum compensation of 4000 euros. This amount is calculated on the basis of the planting cost of one hectare and not on the value of the harvested wood. This is the same for the whole of France, but are all French grounds identical? We cannot compare 1 hectare of forest in the Landes with 1 hectare of forest in the Lozère. In the department of Lozère, many forests come from spontaneous vegetation and the wood is sold between 1000 and 1500 euros per hectare, far from the 4000 euros of compensation. The State services in Lozère proposed an experiment aimed at integrating the value of the cleared afforestation into the calculation of the compensation, to which a multiplier coefficient would be applied to take account of its environmental value. The Lozère volunteered for this experiment. Are you willing to support this local initiative?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u22	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u23	I would be grateful if you would excuse the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who cannot be present this morning. Your question concerns the calculation of clearing compensation. Today, the amount is calculated on the basis of a planting cost. You propose, on an experimental basis, to calculate the compensation based on the value of the harvested wood. Let me go back to the current situation: clearing for clearing is a response to the issue of the general interest of protecting forests in view of the economic, climatic, ecological and social services it provides to society. The compensation is also intended to restore the functions removed by clearing, prioritizing work to improve existing forest stands. It must therefore carry, as a minimum, a surface equivalent to that which has been lost. Financial compensation in the form of compensation is an alternative solution if the holders of a clearing project cannot or do not wish to compensate by work in kind. For the purpose of equivalence, financial compensation shall be calculated on the basis of the costs of afforestation or reforestation of at least an equivalent area, with a multiplier coefficient depending on the economic, climatic and ecological value of the forest to be cleared. As you will have understood, financial compensation based solely on the price of harvested timber would not guarantee sufficient afforestation or reforestation capacity, nor compensation for missing economic, climatic, ecological and social services with clearing. That is why we do not think it appropriate to launch an experiment in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u24	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u25	Your answer is quite disappointing. Come to Lozère to see the reality: the forest has taken the place of once cultivated land. While the Chamber of Agriculture is looking for land to install young farmers, your refusal to experiment is unfortunate for the department.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u26	Mrs Kamowski has the floor to put her question, No 837, concerning the equipment of vehicles in winter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u27	At the beginning of the winter period, I would like to ask you about the application of the obligation to equip vehicles. I associate all my elected mountain colleagues with this issue. Article 27 of the Act of 28 December 2016 on the modernization, development and protection of mountain areas gives massif prefects the power to determine the equipment requirements of vehicles in winter. The implementing rules are referred to a decree, adopted after consultation with the National Mountain Council. A letter sent in the spring to its president, our colleague Joël Giraud, presents a road map which should have allowed, despite the delay, an application as early as this winter. This does not seem to be the case. Winter certainly begins in a few days, but our mountains have already experienced their first snowfall – so much better for the mountains and resorts. In mountain regions, winter equipment is a necessity both for the safety of users and for the fluidity of car traffic, which is sometimes very dense on roads, especially on stations, which weather conditions sometimes make dangerous, due to lack of suitable equipment. I am not unaware of the complexity of the decisions to be taken and the diversity of the vehicles involved – one perhaps explains the other. Nevertheless, this measure is very much expected by the inhabitants and actors of our territories. Almost three years after the law affirmed the principle of winter equipment for motor vehicles, it must finally come into force.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u28	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u29	The Law of 28 December 2016 on the modernization, development and protection of mountain territories created article L. 314-1 of the Road Code which provides for the obligation to equip vehicles in winter periods in mountainous departments. A decree adopted by the Council of State must lay down the detailed rules for the application of this provision, and in particular the non-removable and removable anti-slip devices required, in accordance with Regulation No 661/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009. I am convinced, honourable Member, of the usefulness of this measure not only for road safety but also for the fluidity of traffic in mountain areas during the winter. That is why I have asked the services of the Ministry of the Interior to mobilize for the publication of this decree. However, the technical requirements to be defined by the decree are complex and require extensive consultation, both within the administration and externally. The same applies to the definition of areas in which the provisions would apply. In any event, all of this work should be completed within a time frame consistent with the entry into force of the new provisions for the next winter season 2020-2021. Be assured, Madam, of the commitment and mobilization of services for the publication of the Order as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u30	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor to put his question, No 844, concerning the collection of biometric data in the English Channel.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u31	I would like to draw your attention to the situation – particularly in the English Channel – of the biometric data collection systems necessary for the establishment of national identity cards and passports. As part of the "New Generation Prefectures" plan, the procedures for issuing regulatory certificates – the national identity card, the passport, the driver's licence and the registration certificate, formerly a grey card – have been dematerialised. This development does not require any particular comment, but stewardship must follow. Living with time is good, but if it results in a decline for users, it loses all interest. Since March 2017, obtaining or renewing a passport requires pre-application on the Internet. Then, the application must be filed with a town hall equipped with a biometric data collection device, for prints and photos – and this is where it spoils. In view of the significant investments it requires, not all town halls have been able to be equipped with this collection mechanism; Prefectures have, logically, made choices. The department of the Manche, almost 150 kilometres long, has 446 communes – many of them new communes since the "historical" communes were 601 – and 500,000 inhabitants – is not nothing. However, only 23 town halls are equipped with fingerprinting devices, which is barely 5% of the total. In my electoral district, which has 120,000 inhabitants, there are only four of them. This administrative reform, initiated by the public authorities, leads to particularly excessive delivery times. Dematerialization should, if not accelerate the process, not slow it down. However, for passports, the situation in the English Channel is worse than before: more than two months of delay! The chain is completely "embossed", whether it is the local level for filing applications or the national level for manufacturing. This is unacceptable both in terms of the quality of service provided by the public and the impact on the public, who anticipate the difficulties. What measures does the Government intend to take to improve the production chain? With regard to local networks, it would be desirable for each former cantonal capital to be equipped to provide a grid of the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u32	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u33	In a recent report, the Court of Auditors found that the total number of collection devices was adapted to absorb the flow of requests, especially since, in order to meet the commitments made to the Association des maires de France, 528 additional stations have been deployed over the past three years, in addition to the 3526 already used for the filing of passport applications. We also decided to deploy 100 additional collection devices in 2019 and 2020. Within this framework, an additional mechanism has already been allocated to the Department of the English Channel. The national average rate of use of collection devices is improving. The rate of use of the twenty-four devices installed in the twenty-three municipalities of the Channel already equipped is on average 56% and the average appointment time is 18 days, slightly below the national average of 19 and a half days. This rate can be further increased to provide better service to the user without increasing the total number of devices. Unequipped communities can also pursue their mission of issuing identity certificates through the ad hoc use of mobile collection devices that can be made available to them by all prefectures. Title centres of expertise and resources are experiencing a sharp increase in the demand for identity documents, which is why further reinforcements of individual contractors were allocated to them as of September 2019, as I have the opportunity to indicate recently in response to a question to the Government. To date, the average time for the provision of securities – including instruction, manufacturing and transport – has been 21 days, including 12 days for the investigation of the demand by the State services. All these measures reflect the State's commitment to ensure a high-quality service for all users throughout the national territory and to maintain vigilance in this regard throughout the implementation of the reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u34	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u35	I do not dispute the figures at national level. You mention an average time of 21 days – so much better for the departments and the people who benefit from it – but in the English Channel it is more than two months. This is unacceptable. The waiting time for an appointment also far exceeds 18 days. You cannot summarize the situation on the ground with statistics. You do not answer practical questions, on the one hand, about the embolism of the passport manufacturing process, and, on the other hand, about unbearable waiting times in the Department of the English Channel. I regret this and call on the Ministry of the Interior to step up its efforts to provide itself with the necessary resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u36	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u37	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u38	Mrs Cécile Untermaier spoke of her question, No. 851, concerning the judicial path of victims of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u39	In particular, I would like to refer to the treatment of legal costs when the author is insolvent. I met, in my constituency, the family of a victim who died under the blows of his spouse. I have thus been able to measure the judicial path which, for the victim's family, resembles a kind of double sentence. Despite the fee agreements, she must devote substantial sums of money to the proceedings, especially the author appeals, benefiting from legal aid. Of course, in the case of crimes, legal aid is open to all families, regardless of their resources; But, you know as I do, his level is low, and he doesn't allow for the lawyer of his choice. In addition, this information is not known to the victims; I discovered it myself on that occasion. There is more generally a lack of readability; Despite all their efforts, the associations are not in a position to adequately accompany the victims. Madam Keeper of the Seals, should the ceiling for legal aid not be increased in order to ensure real access to justice? Furthermore, is it possible to deduct the amount of the lawyer's fees? It's information I didn't find. Above all, it is necessary to develop the information by the associations: these families obliged to go to different places in France to defend their rightful cause do not have to incur additional costs of travel, accommodation... Given the seriousness of the facts, they should not have to seek information; the court or victim support associations must take the initiative to deliver it to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u40	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u41	You know the Government's commitment, and mine, to help victims of domestic violence; I share with you the concern that legal aid will accelerate, or at least facilitate, the use of justice. Section 9-2 of the Legal Aid Act 1991 provides that victims of the most serious crimes, as well as their dependants, are entitled to legal aid without condition of resources. In the case of a murder, which you refer to, this article obviously finds itself applicable: the difficulties you raise seem to me to have to be solved in this way; If this was not the case, we should look very carefully at what is happening. You mention a lack of support, and a lack of information about these provisions. I can hear it, and I will remind associations of the existence of this mechanism. In addition, the proposed law just introduced following the Grenelle against domestic violence provides for new legal aid measures, which would apply as early as 2020. In this way, we aim to encourage the use of interim legal aid when the victim requests a protection order, so that the processing of this application is accelerated; We will also fund legal services for victims of domestic violence who apply for a protection order, so that they are immediately accompanied, advised and taken care of. You refer to the upgrading of legal aid, as well as the possibility of deducting it from lawyers' fees. These questions have just come before me, and I can only promise you to think about them. Believe that we will do everything in our power to ensure that the victims, when they have not died, and their families, are accompanied in this very long and painful process of rebuilding a family unit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u42	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u43	Thank you for your answer. I know how to count on your commitment. I wanted to stress the particular question of the families of the victims of femicides: they should not be obliged to request, to seek information. The information must come to them. Fortunately, there are not so many people involved: we must accompany them in the most serious way. In addition, I believe we must work on the deduction of legal aid and its upgrading in cases as tragic as this one.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u44	Mr Gwendal Rouillard, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 828, concerning the consequences of Brexit on Breton fishing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u45	France is very committed to the negotiation of Brexit; the President of the Republic has put on the top of the pile the subject of the fishing. But, at this time, we remain worried. I would like to recall here a few figures: Brittany has 4800 sailors and 1200 ships; 10% of Breton vessels are directly concerned with the question of access to UK fishing areas, and half of them account for more than 50% of their turnover in UK waters. As far as Lorient's fishing port is concerned, my own land, our admiral ship, is scavengerfishing: thirteen of its boats work in British waters, and half of the fish auctioned comes from it. I would add, because it is necessary to take into account the entire ecosystem, that 60% of the activity of the 20 or so Lorientese mareyers is related to activity in British waters. I stop giving figures here, but everyone will have understood that for Lorient, for Brittany, for France, this negotiation is vital; There is therefore a great deal of concern, both in fishing ports and throughout the fishing industry. The stakes of the negotiations are known: how can we guarantee access to the British fishing areas and the maintenance of historical rights, negotiated in the 1970s? What will tomorrow's fishing quotas be? Brexit is potentially the end of fishing quotas for our British friends. What will be the conditions for landing catches of French vessels in British ports, such as the conditions of transport in France? Finally, the question of customs duties, which does not concern fishing alone, is open. What measures can be envisaged, both in Brussels and in Paris, to accompany the new French fisheries strategy? How can we support all of our businesses? We have raised these problems with your colleague Didier Guillaume, of course, but they also concern this beautiful Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u46	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u47	I know, Mr President, your commitment to the cause of Breton fishermen – you are aware that the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, Jean-Yves Le Drian, shares it. The mobilization of the Government, in particular the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Agriculture and the Secretary of State for European Affairs, is complete: we measure the importance of fisheries for French economic activity, and we know what it represents for many families. The orderly exit of the United Kingdom from the Union remains the preferred scenario by the Government; That is why we have accepted a further extension of the negotiating period until 31 January in order to allow the outcome of the process in the United Kingdom to ratify the withdrawal agreement. It provides for a transitional period, until 31 December 2020, during which European law will continue to apply in the United Kingdom, including in the fisheries sector, and will be used to negotiate the framework for the future relationship with the United Kingdom. It must be said that Brexit is a loser-loser: losing for the United Kingdom, losing for the Member States of the European Union. We will have to stay close in many areas, in fisheries in particular, but also in the military field, for example, because we have a lot to build together. The Government and the Union, however, have prepared themselves for all scenarios, including the so-called "hard Brexit" exit without agreement. Emergency measures have been adopted to minimize the negative effects of such an eventuality. For example, in the area of fisheries, European regulations have been amended to allow European vessels to continue their activities in British waters, and vice versa – if the British Government is open to them, and on the basis of strict reciprocity. Furthermore, the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund – EMFF – can be mobilised to allow compensation for the temporary cessation of activity, if, unfortunately, such situations arise. Of course, we hope that we do not have to do that. The orderly exit from the United Kingdom remains the central scenario. Finally, regardless of the exit arrangements, the conditions for the future long-term relationship with the United Kingdom will have to be negotiated after Brexit. One of our priorities will be to preserve the access of French and European fishermen to British waters and fish stocks, because the figures you have given show that this is an essential question for them. More generally, we will have to maintain fair competition rules with the United Kingdom. The defence of the interests of our fishermen will remain one of the main French priorities in the Brexit negotiations. We know how to count on you and the entire national representation to be at this meeting so crucial for the future of the entire profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u48	Mr Gwendal Rouillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u49	Thank you for that answer, Secretary of State. I am convinced that the interests of France and Britain will continue to converge in many areas; I hope that the negotiations will be successful. I would like to stress one point: if we are right to talk about fishermen, it is indeed the whole industry, from upstream to downstream, that must be taken into account. In Brittany, it comprises 600 companies and 17,000 jobs: a job at sea is four jobs on land. It's an ecosystem I'm very attached to. Finally, Lorient has a station at the Institut Français de Recherche pour l'exploitation de la mer – l'Ifremer – which participates in this ecosystem: scientists work on board ships to collect data on trawl lines, in order to build a sustainable fishery that respects biodiversity and fish stocks while allowing the development of the activity. It is therefore a comprehensive approach that is being discussed. Of course, I trust you to conduct a win-win negotiation in Brussels. Thank you again, Secretary of State; You're welcome to Lorient.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u50	I call Mrs Brigitte Liso to speak on her question No 830 on the evaluation of the implementation of the Istanbul Convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u51	In 2014, France ratified the Istanbul Convention, which aims to combat all forms of violence against women by establishing minimum standards for prevention, protection of victims and prosecution of perpetrators. As you know, this Convention is a major text for the continuation of this fight that we all want to lead here. Today, this convention is often mentioned in the public debate when it comes to encouraging our European neighbours to ratify it; For, while forty-six States have signed it, eleven have still not ratified it, and we must remain mobilized. However, I believe it is necessary to raise another equally important issue: the evaluation of the implementation of these commitments. The Convention requires national parliaments, and therefore the National Assembly, to participate in the monitoring of the implementation of the provisions, with the assistance of the Group of Experts on Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, GREVIO. The group publishes an annual evaluation report for each country that has ratified the Convention and makes general recommendations on specific topics, if any. As far as France is concerned, GREVIO issued a very positive report at the end of November covering the year 2019. He welcomed the determination of the French authorities to strengthen the prevention and suppression of violence against women. The Grenelle against domestic violence is cited as a fundamental step forward; We welcome this. The report nevertheless contains some recommendations: to increase the number of specialized accommodation facilities for women and their children; to improve the training of professionals; or to create legal mechanisms to protect women from economic violence. GREVIO also regretted the partial application of certain provisions, in particular with regard to the protection of child victims of violence, or the elimination of the risk of violence after separation. Over the past two years, the Government has achieved a great deal in combating violence against women, making the evaluation of public policies the focus of its work. That is why, Mr Secretary of State, I ask you to inform us about the steps taken by the Government to address the concerns of GREVIO. Finally, how do you plan to assess all the measures taken since the beginning of the quinquennium to combat violence against women and their children?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u52	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u53	Thank you very much, Madam Member, for this question on an extremely important subject which the President of the Republic has wished, as early as 2017, to establish the quinquennium as a major cause. I add that the evaluation logic is always a sound logic to ensure that the results are on track. Therefore, all GREVIO recommendations will be carefully considered by the Government, including Marlène Schiappa, the Secretary of State responsible for these matters. Several measures have been taken following the Grenelle dedicated to this subject. Announced by the Prime Minister a few days ago, they will provide answers to some of GREVIO's recommendations. This set of measures included an audit of the reception conditions of women victims of violence, which had already involved 130 police services and gendarmerie brigades. The hazard assessment grid for brigades and police stations was also completed and then disseminated. Parliament almost unanimously adopted the generalisation of the anti-approximation bracelet. The emergency chambers are being deployed in some courts, with the task of ensuring the shortest possible treatment of judicial proceedings. Moreover, we should not forget that a call for projects has been launched on the treatment of perpetrators of violence: €2 million has been made available, with the aim of creating two centres per region. There is also a telephone platform, 3919, whose operating hours will be extended and which we will make more accessible to people with disabilities. More than eighty positions of social workers will also be created in police stations and gendarmerie. Finally, a plan aims to develop meeting spaces: an additional EUR 30 million will be mobilised by 2022 in order to better mesh the territory of these neutral places protecting mothers and their children in the event of separation. The Government's determination to take action on the issue of violence against women is therefore intact, both to improve our legislative system and to implement concrete measures on the ground. Beyond these – and I speak on behalf of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs – the Government is also committed to making this feminist commitment a priority of our diplomacy. For example, France took advantage of its position as Chair of the G7 and the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe to promote the Istanbul Convention. We welcome Ireland's ratification of the Treaty on 8 March. We are also conducting a ratification campaign with non-members of the Council of Europe, which is beginning to bear fruit, as Tunisia has submitted a formal application for accession to the Convention, while several other States have indicated their interest. These are the elements that I wanted to bring to your attention, Madam Member, showing that France intends to remain at the forefront for the benefit of women, both at national and international level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u54	Mrs Brigitte Liso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u55	Thank you, Minister. My point was indeed to encourage France – but it is already working on it – to convince countries that have not yet ratified this convention to do so. Given the will shown by the Government, I have no doubt that this very beautiful tool will enable us to achieve great things.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u56	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u57	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u58	Mr Vigier has the floor to put his question, No 845, concerning the creation of public initiative networks for mobile telecommunications infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u59	It is well known that some of the different fractures in our country are related to digital technology and telephony. With regard to digital technology, I would like to welcome the decisions taken by the Government and remind the Assembly that they have made it possible to speed up the deployment of digital networks and very high-speed Internet, in particular by exempting operators from the flat-rate taxation for fixed-network companies – IFER. We are beginning to measure their positive effects in all our territories. The question of mobile telephony remains. Mr. Minister for City and Housing, you were one of the ambassadors who promoted the conclusion of the famous "new mobile deal". Such an agreement was essential in view of the delay in the deployment of 4G. Thus, at a time when the Government is launching a 5G licensing consultation, some territories are still only affected by 2G or 3G, or are not at all served if they are far from the major communication channels – such as motorways or high-speed lines – where relay antennas are concentrated. If I take the example of my department, the new mobile deal provides for the construction of twenty-one towers over the next five to eight years to improve the service. But the account is not there: according to the precise evaluation that we carried out with the president of the department of Eure-et-Loir thanks to the help of specialized companies, almost a hundred towers would in fact be necessary. The same situation can be observed in many parts of the national territory. We cannot explain to the population of the department that it will have to wait five or even ten years to benefit from 4G, while other territories – in particular the metropolises – will soon access 5G! I would therefore like to know whether the Government could support the establishment of public initiative networks for mobile telecommunications infrastructure. Combining the State, as a regulator, with operators and communities – departments, regions or intercommunalities – they would allow a pooling of the means that could speed up the deployment of relay antennas and thus provide a rapid response to our citizens. Telephony is the end of isolation; Its development will help to reduce one of the much feared fractures in the country, the effects of which are increasingly visible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u60	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u61	Mr President, thank you for your comments: it is true that we have accelerated the deployment of digital networks. Consider that in 2019, we will be at 4 million additional plugs, twice the figure we had two years ago! The new mobile deal is one of the main topics that I had to deal with when I took up my duties. Who can accept that in some residential areas it is still necessary to go to the back of the garden and raise his arm to hope to catch a weak signal? No one! To remedy this, it was necessary to radically change the situation – that is, change the habits, including those of the state. In fact, until now, the State had granted frequencies by auctioning them, which obviously led telephone operators to cover the densest areas as a matter of priority, the financial criterion being the only one taken into account. That is what we have changed. I signed this new deal in January 2018. As I speak to you, just over a year and a half later, 5117 communes have moved from the old technologies – 2G and 3G – to 4G. By the end of 2020, a total of 10,000 municipalities will have made this changeover. In addition, we have launched a programme to cover the "white areas", which you stressed the persistence of. More than 1170 white areas are being treated. Each year, an additional 700 to 900 white areas will be treated. The main road and rail routes will also be dealt with. In your department, the construction of some 20 towers has indeed been deemed necessary. Of course, more is needed. I insist on two points. First, to give you an idea of the scope of the new deal, it will lead to the installation of nearly 12,000 additional towers. These facilities will be in addition to those which will result from the normal activities of the telephone operators. Secondly, you have asked very clearly, Mr Vigier, whether the State would support other initiatives, for example by the department, to further speed up the process of accompaniment, beyond the new deal. The answer is a thousand times yes. For my part, thanks to the new deal, I managed to obtain an additional 12,000 pylons. It was necessary, and I am glad. If other actors get operators to go even further, I can assure you that I will be at their side.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u62	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u63	You have greatly accelerated the implementation of this policy, Minister, and I would like to welcome it. Simply put, we now need a legislative vehicle to allow the creation of public initiative networks, because it is the best way to pool the action of operators. This would increase the number of towers that can be erected in Eure-et-Loir from 20 to 100. Moreover, since it cannot be said that the Government did not act, the communities would be faced with their responsibilities. Is the proper coverage of the territory and, above all, the access of our citizens to mobile telephony, yes or no, a top priority? This is, I repeat, one of the great fractures that is going through our country. The measure I am advocating would be a good way forward. Thank you for your answer. We are at your side to speed up the movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u64	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to raise Question No 852 by Mr David Habib, concerning the plan to destroy, in Mourenx, the so-called Singles Tower.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u65	Instead of my colleague David Habib, I would like to ask you, Mr Minister responsible for the city and housing, about the plan to destroy the so-called Singles Tower in Mourenx, in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, and, more broadly, about the urban renewal of this city. Under pressure from the town hall of Mourenx, the National Real Estate Corporation wishes to destroy the so-called Singles Tower, an element of the historical heritage and recognized symbol of the city. However, this project has not been the subject of any debate or consultation with the public. It is not supported by any known funding, and no compensation is provided for tenants living in the tower. Such a project could not be realized if the city of Mourenx was still eligible for the city's policy arrangements. Before 2014, Mourenx had been able to commit a strategic heritage plan and mobilise a €30 million envelope to implement a major urban project. Beginning in 2008, in partnership with the National Agency for Urban Renewal, operations were carried out for the cooling of the housing stock, the demolition of towers and buildings, and the renovation and reconstruction of the building. The funds were also used to finance the creation of a media library and a children's house. These achievements made it possible to change the nature of a city built in 1958, which was one of the first new cities in our country. However, in 2014, the minister responsible for the city decided to retain, as part of a new zoning, a list of 1300 neighbourhoods located in 700 communes. Since then, Mourenx has been unable to benefit from the funds allocated to the so-called priority neighbourhoods. It is thus one of the 300 municipalities that have been unjustly excluded from this scheme, due to a level of resources per capita slightly above the defined threshold. Nor will it be able to benefit from the arrangements that might have been created by the Borloo Plan, which is sadly buried by the Government. As the city becomes impoverished and degrades, one cannot resolve not to continue the work of structural change engaged. That is why, on behalf of my colleague David Habib, I call for a halt to the plan to destroy the so-called Singles Tower and for the city of Mourenx to be reclassified as a priority area, with a view to launching a second urban requalification plan. This is the only way for the city to benefit again from aid for the renovation of the building and the construction of new housing. It is also one of the only ways of benefiting from operating funds for the benefit of the associations, in particular the social centre of Mourenx, and the various schemes for occupational integration and assistance to families. For all these reasons, Mr. Minister, Mr. Habib asks you to take up this matter and tell him what arrangements the Government intends to implement for the cities that, like Mourenx, have left the scheme and are no longer receiving the aid they are in dire need of today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u66	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u67	You mentioned, Mrs Pires Beaune, a general case and a particular situation. The general case is the exit of several neighbourhoods, in 2014, from the priority geography of city politics. The then minister had indeed drawn up a new list, based on a number of criteria. As of that date, some cities and neighbourhoods were no longer considered priorities. This was the case with Mourenx, which previously included a sensitive urban area. I do not judge the reasons that led to this reform, but it is wrong to say that no specific accompaniment was put in place then for the neighbourhoods that were leaving the system – I say it all the more forcefully because the decision was taken not by me, but by one of my predecessors. It should be pointed out that these neighbourhoods have been the subject of an "active watch", a mechanism which has the merit of exist ing, even if it is not always sufficient. As part of this active watch, the minister responsible for the city and housing that I am can act in a particular place, in a very precise way, by mobilising a number of tools, but certainly not as much as when it comes to a priority area. The particular case you mentioned is the destruction of the so-called Singles Tower in Mourenx. In this regard, I would like to make it very clear that, as with any project to demolish social housing, the owner of the building is under an obligation to obtain the authorization of the State representative in the department. To date, however, no formal request has been made to the Committee. I would therefore like to inform Mr. Habib, through you, that the Prefect is at his disposal to discuss with him and all those who would contest the project. You felt that there was a need for a number of accompanying tools in such operations. In this regard, we need to have two things in mind. First, with regard to housing, consideration should be given to the territorial project as a whole, in particular the measures taken to combat the vacancy in certain buildings, including, in some cases, social housing. Secondly, we have considerably strengthened the mechanisms to support social donors in their rehabilitation and renovation projects, as well as destruction. I don't go into detail; I'm at your disposal to discuss it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u68	Mr Sebastien Huyghe, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 841, concerning the reception of Travellers in the south of the Lille metropolis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u69	Mr Minister responsible for the city and housing, the south-west of the European metropolis of Lille has been affected for many years by illegal occupation of public or private land by Traveller communities. All too often, these occupations are accompanied by degradation, threats and even violence against local residents, landowners or even elected officials. The territory in question, which is bordering the Pas-de-Calais, is in parallel obliged to develop 300 places in large passage areas and 55 places in reception areas. However, the territory of a large part of these communes is partly or totally on the catching fields that supply the metropolis with water. In order to preserve this particularly fragile resource, the prefect of the region called at the beginning of the year for the Sanctuarization of these lands. The municipalities concerned were therefore forced to abandon any development projects. They have thus had to make a cross on new developments in the service of their population, on road bypasses and even on the arrival of new companies. It seems obvious that the projects of reception areas or large passages are also concerned. The departmental plan for the reception and accommodation of Travellers for the years 2019 to 2025 also states: "The State will ensure, on the sectors concerned with the preservation of the receiving fields, that the default prescription is placed on the least impacted communes". Municipalities in this situation cannot comply with the obligations laid down by the Besson Act without violating the prefectural requirement. Therefore, Minister, should we consider that they will be exempt from these obligations? If that is the case, can you confirm to me that they will be able to benefit from an accelerated procedure in case of illegal parking of Traveller communities? Moreover, the lack of coordination between the departmental schemes of the Nord and Pas-de-Calais is a source of inconsistency. The commune of La Bassée, located in the Nord, which is obliged to create a large crossing area of 150 places, is de facto concerned by the project of reception area of the commune of Douvrin, located in the Pas-de-Calais. Indeed, this reception area would be located in the immediate vicinity of downtown La Bassée. The departmental scheme for the years 2019 to 2025 recalls that coordination must be ensured by the State services. This coordination, however essential, has not yet been achieved. Can you tell me, minister, what actions you intend to take to promote it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u70	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u71	I answer the various questions you asked, Mr Huyghe. First, the process of revising the departmental hosting and accommodation scheme for Travellers – these schemes were provided for by the Besson Act, which you mentioned – was initiated in the North in January 2018. It has given rise to broad consultation, at territorial conferences held in several districts of the department – I imagine you have participated in it. In any case, I can reassure you on one point: the question of the preservation of the captive fields imposed on the European metropolis of Lille has obviously been taken into account by the prefect of the North in the framework of the elaboration of the future departmental scheme. Second, there is a difference between reception areas and large passage areas. Since the former have a long-term vocation, their development may involve a significant waterproofing of the site; It's not the same for seconds. I am committed to ensuring that the future departmental scheme includes recommendations and requirements for large passage areas. I would like to reassure the local elected representatives: the scheme will integrate all the problems and will not leave any public institution for intercommunal cooperation in a situation of non-compliance with its obligations. Thirdly, with regard to interdepartmental coordination, I would like to point out to you that the prefects of Nord and Pas-de-Calais have begun work to bring the departmental schemes into line. The future départemental scheme of the Nord will take account of the geographical characteristics of the communes located in the immediate vicinity of the communes of Pas-de-Calais and will specify, after discussion with the Prefect of Pas-de-Calais, that a double solution may be sought, consisting of favouring, on the one hand, the concept of the sector to which the commune concerned belongs and, on the other hand, an interdepartmental logic with Pas-de-Calais. We will try to show the greatest pragmatism. In the case you mentioned, this will mean, in addition to the commitment of the municipality concerned, a consensus with the other municipalities of the two departments located in the same area. The two departmental prefects are mobilized. They are at your disposal to deepen the question and answer your concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u72	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u73	May you be heard, Minister! I must point out to you the great emotion felt by the mayors of the area because of the telescopage, if I may say, between the different obligations incumbent on the territories, especially when they are bordering on another department. This question gives me the opportunity to expand on the point: unfortunately, your majority has emptied of its substance a bill for a senatorial act dealing with Travellers. I would like us to look at this subject again. In fact, illegal occupation continues to grow, and there is an increase in tensions that may lead to violence. I have already drawn the Government's attention to the climax that these tensions are reaching: it is such that we will one day have one death to deplore, in the community of the Travellers or among the residents. It is necessary to deepen the legislation in order to resolve these difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u74	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq, speaking on question No 827 by Mrs Huguette Bello, on the expropriation of land on the Cap la Houssaye-Éperon site.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u75	My colleague Huguette Bello's question concerns the proposed acquisition of land by the Conservatoire du littoral of about 150 hectares, in Saint-Paul de La Réunion, on the site of Cap la Houssaye-Éperon. It is an exceptional savannah landscape, already classified as "remarkable natural space of the coastline" and as such declared inconstructible. In the past, the Conservatoire has acquired nearly 200 hectares amicably; he is now engaged in expropriation proceedings. The owners concerned, or about 100 families, are obviously in favour of preserving and valuing this exceptional savannah landscape; However, they question the expropriation protocol, like all the elected ones. They deplore the fact that the Conservatoire does not comply with the commitments made in 2001 to all the socio-professionals of La Réunion: to conduct an in-depth discussion beforehand and not at the same time to conduct the public utility survey and the partial survey. At the time, there had been a great deal of concern about the lack of consultation. Almost two decades later, not only is there still no consultation, but the surveys are being conducted jointly. In addition, the declaration of public utility is accompanied by a summary investigation file, without qualified advice, the deliberations of the Boards of Directors of the Coastal Conservatory, cartography or alternative solutions. The very short time allowed for the double public inquiry, which took place between the 1st and 24th October, obviously did not allow public debate or consultation, and gives this procedure an urgent character which is not justified, since almost all of these spaces are uninhabited and they are – let us repeat – strictly inconstructible. In the face of the difficulties encountered in making their positions and proposals heard, the owners formed themselves into a collective, asking for a genuine dialogue. The collective also hopes that a public debate will finally take place on this major environmental project, which concerns all Réunions; in a word, that the commitments of 2001. Minister, the people of Réunion want to be involved in the decisions about the future of this site, and wait for your proposals to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u76	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u77	The savannah of Cap La Houssaye, like more generally that of La Réunion, is infinitely precious for France, and beyond for the planet. We must make all decisions that can preserve it. Many actions have been taken in this direction in the past, as you said, notably the decisions taken in 2016, but it must be noted that they have not been sufficient. Our responsibility now is to move forward quickly, establishing a very precise safeguard plan. This landscape is in fact strongly threatened, both by the rapid growth of urbanization and by the growth of invasive alien species. The savannah has seen its area divided by three in the last fifty years, which no one can accept. The site's classification as a "remarkable natural area of the coastline" did not prevent the destruction of part of its area, so further action was required. To define them, we must start from the difficulties encountered. The first is the fragmented land structure between more than one hundred owners, which makes it difficult to manage eco-pastorally able to preserve or restore these savannah landscapes. The Conservatoire du littoral therefore wished to undertake, after having obtained the favourable opinion of the commune of Saint-Paul, a process of expropriation on 150 hectares, to complete the 200 hectares already acquired amicably twenty years ago. Your question is about how to ensure that the consultation is carried out and that all local actors take ownership of the process. Many contacts were made with the landowners concerned. In 2016, they were all informed of the terms of the project and their proposal for an amicable acquisition. As for the procedures provided for in the expropriation code you mention, the owners were able to make their views widely known during the October public inquiry on the basis of an explanatory note containing the maps necessary for the proper understanding of the project; 120 observations were also identified. The Commissioner-investigator is submitting his report today. I can assure you that in the coming months the State services will maintain contacts with the authors of the observations, in order to define the best way to achieve this shared objective of preserving the savannah and its ecosystem. In my view, it necessarily goes through the acquisition of these plots.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u78	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u79	Minister, the question before you concerns the democratic aspect of the process. Twenty years have passed, as you said, without the people concerned having the impression that measures were being taken; Today you stress the ecological urgency – rightly –: in terms of ecology and climate, the situation requires us to act quickly. This does not mean that we must act in any way. In recent months, there has been another emergency in our country, of a democratic nature. Administrative procedures, including public inquiries, must allow for democratic expression. A collective of owners is now set up at La Réunion: we ask you to consider that you now have a representative interlocutor, through which you can act quickly, but also effectively and democratically.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u80	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor to put her question, No 833, on emergency accommodation in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u81	In the run-up to the winter truce, the Government announced the creation of an additional 14,000 emergency accommodation spaces throughout France. More than EUR 100 million is spent on emergency accommodation, bringing the budget for emergency accommodation to EUR 2 billion. This large device is similar to the one deployed last year, and must reach full speed in the event of a severe cold. The principle of non-conditionality of reception requires that the search for solutions take into account the number of places available and the vulnerability of the persons concerned. Particular attention is paid to the priority audiences of vulnerable persons, such as women victims of violence or families with young children. The cold plan must therefore increase the number of places and deal with situations of tension experienced by government services, communities and associations, which are doing their utmost. The additional seats are therefore open in case of great cold and are "temporary". They are in addition to the 146,000 emergency accommodation spaces available all year round. This is, of course, a beneficial effort, especially as the number of people on the street is increasing significantly, according to data collected by 115. In my department of Maine-et-Loire, I note that despite the efforts of the State services and all the actors, there are callers every night at 115 for whom no solution is found, including sometimes families, children, pregnant women. Maine-et-Loire has 524 emergency accommodation spaces and about 100 hotel spaces are also mobilized. Despite these means, about 20 people stay on the street every day; It is therefore about twenty places that are missing every day to meet the needs of the city of Angers. Minister, can you tell us how many of the 14000 places provided for in the winter plan will be allocated to Maine-et-Loire? Is the dart subject to regular consultation with associations acting on the ground? In addition, how many of them will be sustainable after March 31, 2020 and how will they be distributed? I recall that 6000 seats were maintained last year. Finally, and more broadly, what solutions are provided for the large excluded, those homeless who have given up calling 115 to request accommodation? I recently visited a family pension run by Adoma in Angers. It is an accompanying housing arrangement that is extremely interesting for the people living there, and relatively inexpensive for the State, although improvements would certainly be needed. Are these family pensions intended to develop, particularly in Anjou?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u82	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u83	Madam Member, you are referring to a subject of immense importance; Unfortunately, the lack of housing is a reflection of many ills in our society. No one is on the street by choice; The street kills, a lot, summer and winter. No one can accept it until I talk to you, women and children are sleeping on the street. What must be done to remedy this? First, make a massive effort to protect those who need it – it is the role of emergency accommodation. The mechanism for which I have responsibility is currently opening every evening, in connection with local elected representatives and associations, about 150,000 places, the equivalent of the city of Le Mans. Every night, I manage the equivalent of the city of Le Mans to accompany those who need it. In the last two years that I have been in charge of this subject in the Government, I have sustained 15,000 additional places – almost as much as during the previous quinquennium. I do not welcome this in any way; I just want to stress the urgency of the situation. Despite this effort, thousands of people still sleep on the streets, sometimes children, sometimes women. The fight must therefore continue, with immense determination, for the places that are missing to open. I have announced an additional 14,000 places for periods of cold weather. As of 1 December, 7400 additional winter places were open at national level, including 2900 in Île-de-France and just under 400 in your region, Pays de la Loire. You are referring to the tremendous scheme of family pensions, making the connection with the other side of our policy. In the face of the urgency of the situation, lasting solutions must be brought: it is a matter of getting people out of emergency accommodation to offer them a real accommodation, an address, a roof. This is the meaning of housing policy first, to which local associations and elected representatives contribute – some 20 large cities are participating in the initiative that we launched. Last year, these measures resulted in the removal of 700,000 people from the street or from precarious habitat. Family pensions are one of the solutions: I want to put the same energy in the development of housing policy first, in connection with local elected representatives and associations, than in the opening of an ever larger number of emergency accommodation spaces. Both are necessary to put an end to the infernal spiral experienced by those who enter emergency accommodation, stay there for a few days, leave it, and call again. I repeat: we must act on these two levers. In the budget you have adopted, we have allocated an additional EUR 100 million to support and speed up projects, in particular by shifting some of the funding to family pensions. You see, we show as much determination as humility, given the gravity of the situation, but we will not let go, because every time a person sleeps on the street, it is a failure for our society that no one can accept. We are therefore acting forcefully on these two levers and we will continue to do so all year round, not just in the winter period, because, I repeat, the street also kills during the summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u84	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u85	I thank you for this national, but also regional, information, since 400 "great cold" places are already open in the Pays de la Loire – my question was in particular about the situation in Anjou. Family pensions meet the aspirations of the people who live there and who I have been able to meet. They bring serenity and give a place to everyone. I therefore hope that they will be developed and I will accompany you in that direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u86	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq, speaking on question No 825 by Mrs Marie-George Buffet, on mal-housing in the Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u87	The scourge of malaccommodation considerably degrades the living conditions of the inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis department, and it continues to grow. This department holds the sad record for the number of unworthy housing units in the francilian region. You are well aware of the subject: it is estimated that about 30,000 private dwellings, or about 7.5% of private main residences, would be unhealthy, dangerous or too small. The Prime Minister announced on 31 October the recruitment of five inspectors in charge of unworthy housing in addition to the two inspectors already in office. If this measure will allow for the faster identification of unhealthy housing, it will have to be accompanied by additional means to renovate or relocate the inhabitants concerned quickly. The Seine-Saint-Denis is in a tense area and this situation benefits sleep merchants who allow themselves to rent, under inhuman conditions and at a high price, goods to those who do not arrive to live in the social park. To stem the phenomenon, the cities of Stains, Saint-Denis and Aubervilliers have introduced a "lease permit" for owners since January 1, 2019. This is an important step, but communities cannot act alone. They must be accompanied and strengthened in their powers. Unaccommodation is also the repeated elevator breakdowns that donors sometimes take months to repair. These recurrent breakdowns hinder many residents in their daily travel, when they do not prevent some from leaving their homes. Recent measures taken by the Government have not helped to reverse the situation. The decrease in the five euros of personalized housing assistance, passed on by the donors, weakened their cash flow, while no savings were requested from the private rental stock. Mr Minister, what means are you going to allocate in practice to local authorities and donors to combat mal-housing in Seine-Saint-Denis?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u88	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u89	Mr President, I am aware of your commitment, as is that of Minister Marie-George Buffet in the fight against sleep merchants and mal-housing, a complicated, worrying subject that requires a general and trans-party mobilization. The presence of sleep merchants in our country is an increasing scourge – or at least it was two and a half years ago, when I took up my duties. Since then, thanks to the will and responsibility of all the political groups – I remember the debates we had here with your colleagues Stéphane Peu and Marie-George Buffet, as well as with the parliamentarians of the majority – we have taken three essential decisions. The first was to strengthen the legal arsenal to combat sleep merchants. Those criminals who, with an insolent sense of impunity, use the misery of some to enrich themselves, understand only financial sanctions. That is why, in the ELAN law – for housing, development and digital development – voted a little over a year ago, we decided that identical legal provisions could be made against them and against drug traffickers. The tax presumption of income is an effective tool. In addition, it is now possible to seize expropriation compensation, to put an end to foolish schemes that we have allowed to continue until then. We are beginning to see the first results of these measures. Several very strong court decisions have been taken against sleep merchants since the ELAN law was passed. I commend the work done with the chancellery on this subject. The second decision concerns the accompaniment of all those who, being under the influence of the sleep merchants, fear to denounce them. In this regard, we are doing two things. First of all, we have forced real estate professionals, real estate agents or trustees, to denounce – the word denunciation appears in the ELAN law – sleep merchants. Then we created an accompanying platform, with a great network, which you know: that of ADIL or departmental housing information agencies. Anyone under the influence of a sleeper can reach an interlocutor who will accompany him by calling 0806706806. In three and a half months, we received more than 3,000 calls, which demonstrates the magnitude of the phenomenon. The first two pillars of our strategy therefore consist, on the one hand, of tracking and condemning the sleep merchants, and, on the other hand, of accompanying those who are under their control, but there is a third one, which you are right to stress: the renovation and accompaniment of the works, to which we must devote the financial resources. We have therefore launched a large plan to combat degraded condominiums, where, as we know, many sleep merchants are found – although today they are also swarming in divided pavilions. I announced in Marseille a plan of 3 billion euros, three weeks before the drama of the rue d'Aubagne. I also asked ANAH – the National Habitat Agency – to give priority to combating unhealthy habitat, which we spend hundreds of millions of dollars on. I come to one last essential tool. There was a completely crazy system under which the penalties imposed by local elected officials – which were very difficult to implement and which we have therefore facilitated – were paid to my budget, that is to say, to that of the State. Of course, it was not a good policy. So we changed the law. Since 1 January, when a local elected official has the courage to pronounce a penalty and his services are going to knock on the door of a sleeper, his amount is returned to the municipality, thus to the community, allowing him to carry out renovations or to accompany and strengthen his service to combat the unhealthy habitat. These are the three blocks I wanted to insist on. It is with great determination that we wage the war – it is one – that we have declared in a transpassionate manner to the sleep merchants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u90	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u91	In her question, Minister Marie-George Buffet emphasized the support of the communities that have introduced lease permits.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u92	This is a measure that I am very much in favour of.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u93	This original provision gives meaning to the combat you have described. She hoped that, in support of the municipalities that had the courage to take those steps, the Government would complement the arsenal of accompanying measures that already existed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u94	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u95	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor to put his question, No. 846, on the rehabilitation of urban wastelands in housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u96	Minister, last month I submitted a report on the control of land costs in construction operations. One of the main objectives of this report is to optimise the land available, in particular by requalifying and valuing wasteland in tense areas. Among my recommendations are the identification of wastelands and the acceleration of their clean-up. I know that this issue is a priority of the Government, which put it on the agenda of the third environmental defence council, which met on 7 November. The rehabilitation of wastelands, whether industrial, commercial, administrative, urban or military, is a fundamental struggle, in particular to combat the artificialisation of the soil, because optimising wastelands is to reuse land already artificialized rather than to use new land, and it is to create housing and economic activity without using new spaces. At the end of the ecological defence council, Ms Borne announced a concrete project to rehabilitate the wasteland Guillaumet – ex-CEAT, Toulouse's aeronautical testing centre – and the former engineering school of ISAE, the Higher Institute of Aeronautics and Space, in Toulouse. The CEAT has been a member of the Ministry of Armed Forces since 1940 and has retained an activity in the field of aerodynamics until 2001, before moving to more modern installations east of Toulouse. This site covers a total area of more than 16 hectares, close to the ring road, 1 km from Toulouse-Matabiau train station and is served by two metro stations: Roseraie and Jolimont. For nearly twenty years, the local authorities have wanted to make use of this considerable land to carry out an urban development project combining housing, shops, offices and neighbourhood facilities. However, more than 18 years after the cessation of military activities, and despite numerous deliberations by Toulouse Métropole, meetings, public workshops and concertation phases, no housing has yet been established. In this context, I would like to know the Government's intentions to bring this Toulouse project to a successful conclusion as soon as possible, and more generally to take on board the major challenge of transforming urban wasteland into housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u97	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u98	Mr President, you are a thousand times right to raise the issue of wasteland, which we have mentioned several times over the last few months. It's not even the housing minister who talks, it's the water and forest engineer. We know today that wastelands are a vector for the artificialisation of soils and that their responsibility is massive in the tragedies that our country has experienced, especially in recent weeks, when water flows have caused floods. It is absolutely necessary to change, and even to change paradigms on certain spatial planning issues. At the very least, we have a responsibility to prevent wastelands that are no longer in use from having a devastating effect on the rest of the territory, as a result of the flow of water on soils that have become impermeable. I would add that these wastelands carry massive ecological inconveniences when they are polluted. We spoke together a few days ago about this problem that you know very well. Finally, they are a challenge in terms of planning. I have asked public development establishments to come forward with proposals on how we can use these wastelands or the associated car parks to turn these desert areas, with well-known harmful effects, into useful areas. I therefore answer you a thousand times yes, and support a thousand times the action that you and your colleagues are taking on this subject. Finally, I thank you for the quality of your report and for the bill to reduce the cost of land and increase the supply of housing accessible to the French, which was adopted by an immense majority a few days ago in this House. Secondly, you referred in particular to the Toulouse site, which was the subject of an announcement by my colleague, Élisabeth Borne, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, at the end of the last ecological defence council, during which the President of the Republic himself wanted the issue of wasteland to be put on the agenda. Concerning the former military site in Toulouse, I can confirm several points. First of all, before the end of the year, the State will transfer the site of the former aeronautical test centre to the metropolis of Toulouse, which has decided to develop a new district conjugating on more than 13 hectares housing, shops, offices and equipment in the new administrative city of the State. On the other hand, as the latter had committed itself to it in 2014, and in 2017, due to the construction of social housing in this mixed program, the sale of the land to the metropolis will benefit from a discount of some 12 million, or 45% of the 27 million federal value estimated by the local services of the estate. As you can see: I am able to quote the figures, a sign that the process is under way. State support for the project, in particular that of the Ministry of Armed Forces, which supports the discount, and that of the policy of planning the old wasteland, will allow to accompany the metropolis and to establish, on the state side, the administrative city that I mentioned. Finally, in the meantime – I am speaking under your control – the metropolis has developed the project with the manager, whom it has selected and which is currently conducting the consultations in order to achieve the transfer of ownership of the state to the community as soon as possible. That's what I wanted to tell you about this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u99	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u100	Indeed, if the deadline of 31 December was met, it would be very good news for Toulouse and for the neighbourhood concerned. These approximately 1200 housing units in the city centre are expected. They would be a real manna, and bring a breath of fresh air, in a context of galloping inflation of Toulouse real estate prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u101	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to raise her question, No 843, on the merger of two EPCIs in La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u102	In particular, the departmental scheme for inter-communal cooperation aims to strengthen the coherence of the boundaries of public inter-communal cooperation institutions – EPCI – with their own taxation. Réunion is the first department in the territory entirely covered by agglomeration communities; There are five of them. The outline adopted in 2016 by the Prefect of La Réunion essentially reflects the guidelines set out in 2011, and aims to strengthen the coherence of intercommunality in the Southern micro-region. In this context, the merger of the inter-communal community of solidarity cities and the southern agglomeration community, which has been expected for more than a dozen years, is a relevant objective. These two public institutions are part of the same area of life and solidarity. However, this merger is conditional on the necessary convergence of the powers of these two EPCIs, particularly those of water and sanitation – this is an obligation from 1 January 2020, under the provisions of the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as the NOTRe Act. The draft law on engagement in local life and proximity to public action should facilitate the transfer of these powers, allowing in the short term a merger of the above-mentioned communities into a community of agglomeration or even an urban community. The revenue would thus be multiplied and the means shared, allowing for significant savings, potential reductions in direct and indirect local taxes, as well as royalties, for the benefit of the families of the Greater South of La Réunion. Nevertheless, we fear that some may go against the tide of this movement. The fallback and backwards would contradict the very idea of general interest, preventing the pooling of resources, rationalisation of the public service and economies of scale, which guarantee good management of public funds. Mr Minister, can you assure us that the representative of the State in the Department of La Réunion will ensure that these strategies of another time do not hinder inter-municipal progress, at the expense of the general interest, thereby avoiding the wastage of public money?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u103	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u104	Mrs Lecornu, first of all, I would like to apologize for the absence of the Minister responsible for local and regional authorities, Mr Sébastien Lecornu, who is following this matter carefully. You are asking us about the application of the departmental scheme of intercommunal cooperation of La Réunion, in particular about the proposed merger between the two EPCIs that you mention in your question. First of all, I would like to point out that sections 33 and 35 of the NOTRe Act provided for the revision of departmental plans by 31 March 2016 and their application before 31 December 2016. Specific procedures had been established in the law to ensure compliance with these deadlines. It must be noted that this was not the case. What happened? The departmental scheme for La Réunion called for the two agglomeration communities you mention to be grouped by 2020. Since no measures were taken as at 31 December 2016, the rules of general law of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities apply today to a possible merger of the two EPCIs. Under these rules, the merger requires the agreement of two thirds of the municipal councils of the municipalities belonging to the two agglomeration communities, representing more than 50% of their total population, or at least 50% of the municipal councils of the municipalities representing two thirds of the total population. Moreover, these majorities must include at least one third of the municipal councils of the municipalities grouped in each of the EPCIs concerned by the merger. In this context, the outcome of the proposed merger is subject to consensus among local elected representatives. That is the key, since the majority must be obtained. That being said, I fully agree with you: the representative of the State must accompany the emergence of this consensus between the communities. In short, I agree with you that the NOTRE law had not been applied at the time, and that the rules of common law therefore apply. Democratic consensus is important; The state will be there to accompany him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u105	Mr Serge Letchimy has the floor to put his question, No 850, on the finances of the municipalities of the overseas communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u106	Minister for City and Housing, the mayors of the overseas communes are constantly denouncing the national equalization which is very unfavourable to them, as you know. The loss of profits in relation to the communes of Hexagone, the amount of which is between 85 and 200 million euros per year, explains the difficulties of the overseas communities. It is estimated that 84% of the municipalities of Martinique, Guadeloupe and Guyana are in financial difficulty. I take three examples. The municipality of Basse-Pointe loses 300,000 euros in revenue, that of Sainte-Marie, about 900000 euros, that of Fort-de-France around 2 million euros, while the overall unemployment rate in these departments amounts to about 20%, and that of young people to about 52%. Moreover, the lack of compensation for the contribution to the recovery of public finances levied since 2012 has had catastrophic effects; it represents a total revenue loss of EUR 284 million for the overseas sector. At the same time, paradoxically, the allocations to the municipalities of Hexagon increased, by EUR 600 million for the allocation of urban solidarity – DSU – and by EUR 400 million for the allocation of rural solidarity, accentuating the gap with the overseas municipalities. The President of the Republic had pledged to take some €85 million of catch-up measures for overseas countries by the year 2020. However, the Interdepartmental Committee on Overseas Affairs – CIOM – decided otherwise. This objective will therefore be achieved only in five years, and the amount allocated in 2020 will be only EUR 18 million. Minister, where's the mistake? Why this treatment? The overseas municipalities and those of Hexagone are subject to the same accounting rules by the regional chambers of accounts – which we fully understand – but they are not treated equally. I therefore ask, first, that a system of equitable equalisation be restored, second, that the amount of the appropriation for the development of the overseas communes and territorial districts – DACOM – be increased, including the readjustment of the amount of the national fund for equalisation of the intercommunal and communal resources – FPIC. This would allow the overseas communes to solve a twofold equation: that of the need for progress and development, but also that of the fight against unbearable underdevelopment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u107	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u108	Mr Letchimy, you are asking two very specific questions. Let me begin by replying to the words of the President of the Republic you have mentioned. As you have said – thank you – he has imposed the following observation: Equalization does not allow to combat injustices or territorial inequalities, in a context where endowments are not distributed in the same way in the ultramarine territories and in the metropolitan territory. The President also set out a roadmap for a €85 million catch-up. There may be disagreements on the way forward to achieve this result; The main thing is that your remarks have been taken into account, and at the highest level of the State, since the President of the Republic himself shares this observation, and has indicated the way forward. Today, the equalisations enjoyed by the overseas municipalities in the framework of the overall operating allocation – DGF – and the FPIC are derogating from the common law, because they are calculated according to very specific criteria. I would remind you, for example, that the effects of the perception of the contribution to the recovery of public finances have not been mitigated in the same way in metropolitan and overseas municipalities. You are right, in metropolitan France, that equalisation is gradual, so as to target the most fragile communes, while in overseas France, the rules of distribution, in particular the DACOM, have led to the allocation of the same amounts per inhabitant to all the communes. This difference, which has its justifications, explains that equalization does not apply in the same way in metropolitan France and overseas, with the consequences that you have mentioned. In any event, the President of the Republic has made a commitment: the level of the allocations paid to the municipalities of the overseas departments must catch up with that of the other municipalities. The approach was taken in the draft finance law for 2020, with a payment target of €85 million over five years, set in particular following the proposals of the Local Finance Committee. In 2020, a first tranche of just under EUR 20 million will contribute to this catch-up. I stress that the new means will be allocated in their entirety to an equalisation allocation targeting the most fragile municipalities as a matter of priority – because they must take priority advantage of the road we are taking. In addition, following the recommendations made by your colleague Jean-René Cazeneuve and by Senator Georges Patient, as part of their mission on the finances of local authorities overseas, this allocation will be divided according to specific indicators of resources, but also to charges – such as the number of children per municipality – in order to take into account the specific needs of the overseas municipalities. The report that these two parliamentarians will shortly submit to the Prime Minister will contain further proposals, allowing us to continue this debate. We share the same objectives; The differences are only on the way to achieving this. Anyway, we want to go as fast as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u109	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u110	Thank you, Minister, for your sincerity and frankness of speech. I simply ask that we consider extending the payment over two years, not five years. This would allow the municipalities concerned to have EUR 20 million immediately and then EUR 60 million next year. You would respect the important commitment made by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u111	The floor is open to Mr Pierre Cordier to put his question, No 838, on the reduction of solidarity rent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u112	Since its inception, HLM companies have provided housing for millions of modest families. Since 2018, the Government has been holding nearly 1.5 billion euros a year in the caisses of social donors. Indeed, it has lowered the housing allowances paid to the tenants of the social park, which the social donors have been forced to compensate by reducing their rents thanks to the solidarity rent reduction scheme – RLS. This reduction by donors is allocated under resource conditions and depends on the composition of the household and the area in which the housing is located. With the general reduction of five euros in individualised housing subsidies – APL – and the introduction of the RLS, the Government has reduced the appropriations of the "Aid for access to housing" programme by more than 2 billion euros between the initial financial laws for 2017 and 2019. This decline will continue in 2020, with an additional €1.4 billion in effort. The solidarity rent reduction scheme has energized the finances of the HLM organizations. Some estimate the impact to be €1.7 billion per year in the long term, given that debts incurred under the programmes carried out with the ANRU – the National Agency for Urban Renewal – have not yet been paid or amortised. In the relaxed area, for example in the Ardennes department, in order to maintain the housing and pay the operating costs, the lenders are obliged to increase the rents, in order to close the holes in their budget. Tenants are the first victims, while they also face rising electricity and oil prices for heating this winter. I am thinking in particular of the inhabitants of Charleville-Mézières and the Meuse Valley, in the electoral district where I was elected. Mr Minister, since this policy is in fine for the tenants, I would like to know what corrective measures are envisaged by the Government, particularly in a relaxed area such as the Ardennes department.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u113	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u114	Mr Cordier, thank you for this question, which allows me to address a major issue: the reform of the social housing sector that we undertook two and a half years ago. This fundamental reform has led to an extension of the professions of social donors, which they have been calling for for for a very long time, enshrined in the Law on Housing, Planning and Digital Development, known as the ELAN Act. It has also introduced certain facilities, in particular in Title II of the Act on the control of public works and its relationship to private mastership, known as the MOP Act – on which you have worked a great deal and on which we exchanged a great deal during the examination of the ELAN bill. This reform also deals with consolidations – not mergers – which are now in motion and are beginning to bear fruit. As you know, many territories had already launched such experiments. In addition, there has been a financial reform involving a reduction in solidarity rents. Remember the debates we had on this occasion: some in the Chamber – not you, Mr Cordier – proposed to introduce a minimum remaining charge for the tenants of social housing and beneficiaries of the LPA. I have always opposed it, in order to preserve the purchasing power of these tenants. Other solutions had to be found. The reduction of the solidarity rent allowed us to weigh the weight of the financial reform on the social donors, while at the same time granting them compensation, sometimes very innovative: I am thinking of the participatory titles defended by the Social Union for Housing, in particular the family of the OPH – public housing offices – and of other accompanying financial support aimed at promoting renovation and construction. In parallel with the reduction of the solidarity rent, more than 15 billion euros – I say 15 billion – were brought either by the Bank of the territories of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations or by Action logement, as part of the accompaniment and compensation linked to the reform. However, you are right to point out that this reform has given rise to questions, or even concerns, which I have acknowledged. Even more, in September 2018, at the penultimate conference of social donors in Marseille, I made a commitment to introduce a re-visit clause. I have even admitted – and this is not a frequent thing on the part of a political leader – that the march that we were asking to take in 2020 was certainly too high, or at least that it caused too much concern in a sector that was so important to many of our fellow citizens. For almost nine months, we have done a considerable amount of work with the social donors – whom I would like to welcome here – to reach a major agreement before last summer. It includes a review of the provisions planned for 2020 – which your assembly adopted a few days ago as part of the review of the finance bill – as well as an increase in the compensation awarded to social donors by the Bank of Territories and Housing Action. Finally, social housing actors have committed themselves to approve at least 110,000 new constructions per year and to increase their renovation efforts by 25%. Both in substance and in terms of methodology, it seemed to me crucial to introduce a re-visit clause, which was the result of joint and thorough work, and to draw up an agreement which satisfies all the parties. All the families in the social housing sector signed it a few months ago. We thus revive the dynamics and accompany the efforts to build and renovate the social donors, for the benefit of our citizens. The model of social housing in France is a treasure that we must preserve, accompany and sometimes modify. The agreement signed before the summer is very much in line with this ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u115	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u116	Minister, it seems to me that there is confusion between operation and investment. The decrease in rents automatically results in a decrease in donor revenues. A catch-up must therefore be made, which forces many lenders to increase rents in relaxed areas. You mention the investments or the role of the Caisse des dépôts. I understand that, but this scheme does not contribute to operating costs. In the Ardennes department, both social donors were forced to increase their rents by more than 1.5 per cent because the state had punctured money in their coffers. It's as simple as that. It is therefore essential to distinguish between areas where there is vacant housing and those which do not, and to adapt the policy to the reality of the territories. Also know that the tasks carried out by the ANRU – the National Agency for Urban Renewal – for several years, and already under previous governments, have seriously affected the cash flow and balanced budgets of social donors. I can attest to this, being the administrator of a social lessor since 2004.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u117	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor to put his question, No. 853, on pensions paid to victims of the Holocaust.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u118	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, I very much regret that Mrs Agnès Buzyn is not here this morning. On 15 April, I wrote to him to draw his attention to the legal regime adopted by the departments with regard to the pensions paid by the German State to the French victims of Nazism placed in EHPAD or in institutions for disabled persons. Eight months later, and despite the revivals made by my parliamentary assistants to his cabinet, I have still not received any reply. I am therefore obliged to come back today to this subject which, morally, is very dear to my heart. The CASIP-COJASOR Foundation, which is responsible for responding to the social needs of the last survivors of the Shoah, alerted me to what I can call "a scandal". Today, the Paris Department considers the compensation paid by the German State to the French victims of Nazism as conventional resources, within the meaning of article L. 132-3 of the Code of Social Action and Families. Beneficiaries are therefore liable to be charged 90 % for reimbursement of their accommodation and maintenance costs. The problem is first of all legal, since the drafting of this article is, voluntarily, far too general. By comparison, these annuities are explicitly excluded from the scope of the income tax base. Similarly, the municipal regulation of voluntary social assistance benefits of the city of Paris specifically excludes reparations and allowances paid by a foreign state from the recipient's resources. Above all, from a moral point of view, the fact of puncturing 90% of the compensation received by victims of Nazism strikes my conscience, our conscience. We are talking about former deportees or children whose parents have been murdered by Nazi barbarism, men and women often in precarious, fragile and isolated situations. Regardless of how the pension is paid, there is no doubt that the pension is indemnified and, as a matter of principle, excluded from the resource base. From a financial point of view, I doubt that, seventy-five years after the end of the Shoah, such exclusion has a significant impact on the resources of the departments. Its symbolic significance would, however, be major, as our country faces an explosion of anti-Semitic acts. In this context, out of legal rigour and out of respect for the survivors of the Shoah, I ask the Government to expressly exclude these compensation payments from the resource base referred to in article L. 132-3 of the Code of Social Action and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u119	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u120	Mr President, I am perfectly in a position to answer your question, and I should like to apologize to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, Mrs Agnès Buzyn, who is being held at another meeting. The payment of annuities by the German State to the French victims of Nazism is a sensitive subject which attracts the special attention of the Government, a fortiori in the case of fragile elderly persons. It is, however, part of the broader context of the contribution of older persons to the financing of their dependency and the reduction of their remaining dependency. Article L. 132-3 of the Code of Social Action and Families provides that the resources of any kind of persons residing in an institution which accommodates elderly or disabled persons "are allocated to the reimbursement of their accommodation and maintenance expenses up to a limit of 90%". There are, however, significant territorial disparities in this area: the basis for social action in each department is not fully unified. In a spirit of fairness and territorial equality, the report resulting from the consultation on "age and autonomy" given by Mr. Dominique Libault advocates measures to clarify the system of social assistance – from social assistance to housing in particular – in order to combat disparities and, above all, to limit the remainder paid monthly by people who are losing their autonomy. These measures are being carried out by the departments of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. They will be discussed in the context of the future self-government bill. I propose that the point that you raised this morning, and on which you have asked the minister on several occasions, be discussed during the preparation of this bill, and that we speak about it again in parliamentary debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u121	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u122	We are talking about the elderly, and time is running out. However, we can wait a few more months. However, I would like to point out that when parliamentarians write to ministers, they are waiting for a response. The President of the Republic often takes time to respond, as do other ministers. More importantly on this specific subject, I would have waited for an answer from the daughter of Elias Buzyn, who was rescued from Auschwitz. However, I have heard you, Madam Secretary of State. We will wait a few months, and I have no doubt that the arbitrations will be favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u123	Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie spoke of her question No 834 on the malfunctioning of the Pajemploi interface.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u124	Last May, the calculation and payment of the supplement to the free choice of the mode of custody – CMG – were withdrawn from the family allowance funds and the Agricultural Social Mutuality, to be entrusted to the Pajemploi National Centre. In my constituency, the "Families in Struggle" collective alerted me to serious dysfunctions of Pajemploi, in particular caused by this transfer. Following a technical incident, the data of many beneficiaries appear to have been lost, placing 30,000 families in great difficulty or even in precarious conditions. In concrete terms, the considerable lengthening of processing times runs counter to the reform's ambitions, and even more serious, many families have either not been able to receive the CMG or have been drawn from undue social contributions. This has had serious consequences, causing overdrafts, debt, and for some families, the obligation to dismiss nurseries. This malfunction reminds me of the bugs that hit the RSI – the social regime of the self-employed – about ten years ago, which everyone still remembers. Beyond technical incidents, which can happen, and which we regret, the management carried out by Pajemploi seems to us to be worrying. In such cases, families need clear and precise information, but also benevolence. However, 8,000 families would still not know when their situation would be regularized. Pajemploi and the National Fund for Family Allowances undertook to make a point today, 10 December. We hope that the problems will be resolved quickly. Although an accompanying unit has been set up, it is essential to speed up the pace and to help families in practice. Madam Secretary of State, are you aware of the specific causes of such dysfunction? What about the families whose situation is still unresolved? How will they be accompanied, and within what time frame? What measures do you intend to take to remedy this situation and to ensure, as far as possible, that it does not happen again?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u125	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u126	Thank you for your question, which allows me to comment on the dysfunctions of the system for calculating child care benefits. The Pajemploi + service must improve the conditions under which families – especially the most modest ones – use childcare, avoiding any expense advances. The supplement to the free choice of the mode of care is paid as soon as the remuneration is paid to the nursery assistant or to the child's care. Now, for all families who wish to do so and if their employees agree, it is the Pajemploi centre that pays this remuneration on behalf of the parents, who no longer have to worry about it. More than 100,000 parents have used this new service. More broadly, as a result of this reform, the payment deadlines of the CMG have been considerably reduced for the 800,000 families who employ a maternal assistant or use child care for a child under the age of six. When installing these new services, errors were detected in the calculation of services due to 3% of Pajemploi users. For some of these families, it has not been possible to secure the payment of the supplement of free choice of the mode of care and social contributions for child care have sometimes been levied while these families were exempt from it. I am aware that these mistakes have sometimes had serious consequences for some families. My first concern is that no family is facing financial difficulties as a result of such dysfunction. As early as June, an action plan was put in place by the National Family Allowance Fund and ACOSS, the Central Agency of Social Security Agencies, which are responsible for the scheme. Work has been carried out to correct computer anomalies; They have reduced the number of families involved. The agencies prevent the levying of wrong contributions and now make advance payments when the aid cannot be calculated under normal conditions. For families for whom these benefits represent large amounts or who are in a situation of financial fragility, exceptional aid is paid from the social action fund of the family branch. In addition, communication to families has been strengthened: 40 people have come to support them in answering individual questions by telephone and processing requests; A green number has been set up. Finally, the collective "Families in Struggle", which you mention, has been received and solutions have been found for the families concerned. All the cases mentioned are now being dealt with. I am personally close to the situation. I was in a meeting yesterday with the Director of ACOSS; figures relating to the progress of the processing of files will be published today. We are working to ensure that no mistakes remain. Checks are done manually. We will be vigilant with regard to the implementation of the source levy, by taking stock on 1 June. Information points will be organized on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u127	Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u128	Thank you for the accuracy of your answers, Madam Secretary of State. I have no doubt about the speed of action taken by the State services to resolve these difficulties. I would like to stress that from 1 January 2020 Pajemploi will have to set up the levy at source for individual employers. Errors should be corrected as far as possible by that date to ensure that this is done in good conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u129	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to put her question, No 849, on the mining social security system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u130	In the midst of social turmoil, in which our country has been plunged for several days, I would like, Madam Secretary of State, to speak to you about a profession that almost no longer exists, but to which our country owes so much. I'd like to talk to you about the miners and their widows. All the union federations representing minors, without exception, have for a long time warned us about the unjust destructuring of their particular social protection, destructuring caused by the successive hooves that have been carried out in recent years – I am not only talking about the last two –, eroding each time a little more our social contract. The budget of their autonomous social security fund, in particular the amount of funds for individual health and social measures, is reduced every year due to the natural fall in beneficiaries. However, in 2018, these funds were exceptionally reduced by 10%, instead of the usual 5%. This represents the €2.7 million stumbling block! The National Agency for the Guarantee of the Rights of Minors, the ANGDM, was therefore obliged to stop any payment as early as October 2018 and to postpone its implementation to the budget for 2019, which itself was reduced by 5%. This year, the blockage of payments from the end of October was prevented only thanks to a €500,000 advance on the old age section of the allocation allocated by the National Autonomous Fund for Social Security in Mines for 2020. With a few adjustments, the lack of appropriations at the end of 2019 corresponds little or no to the too large a plan in 2018. This deficit has therefore been created from scratch and, if nothing is done, it will result in an annual shortfall in appropriations in the last quarter. This is unacceptable, and it is all the less understandable that the scheme has been closed to any new entrants since 2010. Moreover, the average age of retired minors and their wives is over 80 years, their needs are growing, and they may not be able to be met if nothing is done. This raises questions about the recognition of the nation and the Government of minors, who have worked hard and under extremely difficult conditions. In fact, the tenability of their work may no longer be taken into account, as the management of polypathological damage caused by their working conditions could be called into question. In short, it is the social achievements of minors and their wives who are being robbed. What happened to the commitment made on behalf of the State by successive majorities to guarantee the special social security scheme for minors up to the last member, up to the last widow, a pledge of the nation's respect for minors, who helped to raise France after the war, at the cost of their health, sometimes their lives? Do you intend to compensate in 2020 for the lack of budget allocations so that social benefits for minors and their widows with low pensions – the latter are now the majority in the mining system – can be restored to their pre-2018 level and paid in time and time?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u131	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u132	As you have pointed out, the successive governments have committed themselves to preserving the individual and collective rights of the mining population until the last member. In particular, the law guarantees them the care of their health care, without medical deductible or lump-sum participation, in contrast to all other health insurance schemes. They also benefit from a very favourable pension scheme, taking into account their working conditions and the fact that they have special needs. There is no question of reverting to these rights. In addition, insured persons in the mining scheme are eligible for extralegal social health benefits, which are granted in accordance with the conditions laid down in the national regulation adopted by the ANGDM Board of Directors and within the framework of the appropriations allocated. You are alarmed by the evolution of the health and social action budget. I would like to reassure you that the sustainability of the mining social security system and the social benefits enjoyed by its citizens in terms of sickness and retirement are in no way called into question. The allocation of individual social assistance was greatly increased in 2011 to EUR 6 million, for an expenditure of EUR 24 million. This has led to a significant improvement in the level of social welfare benefits for insured persons. The average amount of the aid basket has thus increased by 20 % per beneficiary since 2011 and this aid covers an increasing proportion of beneficiaries: some 20 % of the potential workforce in 2018. However, it seems logical that this allocation should be reduced in line with the development of the mining population. As a result, a decrease of about 5% per year was expected between 2018 and 2021. However, social action expenditure for insured persons under the mining scheme amounted to EUR 26.3 million in 2018, which is close to the level in 2017, although the number of insured persons has at the same time decreased by about 7%. As a result, the allocation of social work, in relation to the number of insured persons, has continued to grow. The adjustment of the Social Action Regulation in mid-2019 reflects a desire of the administrators of the scheme to refocus the aid on the most modest insured persons. The Government remains attentive to the needs of the nationals of the mining regime, which, however, seems to me to be well covered by the means granted under the objective and management agreement for the period 2018-2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u133	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u134	Of course, Madam Secretary of State, the amount of social aid has increased since 2011. However, since July 2019, this aid has been refocused on some populations. This means that others have simply seen their rights diminish. Last week, in my constituency, I received a cashier, and I can tell you that the amount of the home help plan's endowment has decreased. This is abnormal, especially as this population is increasingly in need of this help because of its aging! So I invite you to take a close look at this. I'm not asking for more; I am simply saying that the gains achieved in 2011 should be preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u135	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor to put his question, No. 826, on the treatment of breast cancer costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u136	Nearly 60000 breast cancers – the most common cancer in women – are diagnosed every year in our country. Despite extraordinary progress, treatments to prevent recidivism are very heavy and cause many side effects. Fortunately, there are medical and non-medical devices that allow women to compensate for these effects, such as wigs, prosthetics or specific makeup. However, if the treatment of the disease as such is correct, access to these medical and non-medical devices is limited, since they are not fully covered by social security. Therefore, support for disease control depends on the patient's complementary health and level of resources. Since 1 April 2019, synthetic fibre wigs are reimbursed up to a maximum of 350 euros, and the reimbursement of natural fibre wigs is limited to 250 euros at a maximum selling price of 700 euros; no repayments are provided beyond this ceiling. The price of a natural hair wig varies between 800 euros and 2000 euros. The natural wig is in no way a coquetry. It responds to a real need. In addition, their quality and life are well above synthetic wigs. The skull, put to the test by chemotherapy, hardly supports low-end synthetic wigs. On the other hand, some postprotocol treatments, to be taken for up to 10 years, cause side effects, such as repeated infections, intimate droughts, joint problems, hot flashes, weight gain or migraines. For example, the shock associated with the removal of one or two breasts is compounded in many cases by multiple physical inconveniences, resulting in a high risk of loss of self-esteem of patients. There are also solutions, but none of them are reimbursed. A gel against intimate drought costs between 10 euros and 15 euros, an ovule against vaginal infections between 3 euros and 5 euros. Vaginal atrophy due to menopause caused by hormone therapy can be treated by laser, but the session costs about 300 euros, not reimbursed by social security. This constitutes an inequality in the face of the disease and limits national solidarity to low-end devices, as the Ligue contre le cancer denounces, among other actors. Madam Secretary of State, the remaining health costs for breast cancer patients are too high. Medical and non-medical devices must be better reimbursed. However, it is not up to the legislator to decide this, since this is a matter for the regulation and the direction of social security. How does the Government intend to improve these reimbursements and enable women with breast cancer to better combat the disease on a daily basis?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u137	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u138	Health costs and those related to medical devices that remain the responsibility of breast cancer patients are a concern we share. Your question gives me an opportunity to take stock of the situation. Like all breast cancer treatments or the therapeutic management of sequelae, breast reconstruction is covered at 100%, within the framework of the long-term condition, on the basis of the health insurance rate. However, it is true that this exemption does not cover any excess of fees, or the flat-rate contribution or the daily hospital fee. It is therefore essential for patients to be informed of this before making their choice, particularly in the case of the practical establishment of fees overruns. The surgeon must propose a detailed estimate prior to the procedure. Several measures have been taken, as part of the 2014-2019 cancer plan, to improve the access of all women to breast reconstruction after breast cancer, by acting on the rest of the burden, sometimes high, which weighs on the sick and creates inequalities. New recognized breast reconstruction techniques have been included in the Act nomenclature. The reimbursement rates for six breast reconstruction acts were increased by 23% between 2013 and 2015. Since June 2014, the health insurance also takes care of breast symetrics when they are performed after breast cancer treatment by surgery. In the case of medical devices, the internal breast prostheses are 100% taken care of. Finally, alternatives to reconstruction by internal breast prostheses are also supported, such as the use of tissues from other parts of the body. The reconstruction of the breast by lamb has been integrated into the basket of care reimbursed by the health insurance, in the continuation of the cancer plan. The liability rate for external breast prostheses has increased from 158% to 244% and has been accompanied by a selling limit price, allowing the rest to be limited to patients. More broadly, you mentioned many other cares of the utmost importance to the daily lives of patients. We are working on it as part of the cancer plan. In addition, the Social Security Funding Bill for 2020 includes a measure expected by many patients: post-cancer care, which will include physical and psychological support and provide access to other devices. These will be a major step forward in the day-to-day lives of patients, so that they can be better off in this very special health environment to which we continue to pay the greatest attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u139	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u140	Madam Secretary of State, your answer was on a subject that I did not really address; I don't blame you for that, because this subject is important. On the other hand, you have hardly answered my questions about anything that may seem ancillary to the institutions, but that is far from it for people and would really improve their living conditions, their dignity, their well-being. I therefore propose, before you propose it to me, to send you all the elements so that you can give me a well-documented and well-worked answer and even take decisions within the framework of the social security budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u141	Mr Eric Coquerel, speaking on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, raised his question, No 823 on Franco-Luxembourg taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u142	I'm the spokesman for Caroline Fiat, who couldn't be present this morning; She was to address this question to the Secretary of State for European Affairs. On 29 October, the Council of Europe, through the Chamber of Local Authorities, adopted a report in favour of a better distribution of border taxation. This is the institutional recognition of a long-standing fight for the introduction of tax compensation between Luxembourg and France. A similar arrangement has existed since 1973 between Switzerland and France. The Swiss cantons, like the one in Geneva, where a large French labour force is employed, pay part of the tax to the French border departments. This provision is appreciated on both sides for its virtuous effects in terms of caring for workers and improving the infrastructure needed in both countries. In September 2018, Luxembourg crossed the line of 190,000 frontier workers, including more than 100,000 French workers, almost half of the labour force in the Grand Duchy. A tax surrender from Luxembourg to France is essential in order to create a virtuous circle of fiscal fairness between the two nations, as well as for the co-development of the territories. A motion to this effect will soon be discussed by all the Foreign Ministers of the Council of Europe Member States, an institution created by the desire for peace and diplomacy in the aftermath of the Second World War. It is not possible to allow a country to benefit from a population of assets trained in France and living on French soil, without effective and fair compensation, both fiscal and social. It will be said that Luxembourg, where it considers this to be consistent, is already financing certain policies and projects. This is the case with cross-border rail transport. But the sums at stake are derisory in terms of what a real policy of tax retrocession might represent. Moreover, these financings are like alms: Luxembourg decides alone when, why, and especially for what amount it wishes to participate in such a project. There is no doubt that we need a fixed and equitable rule for our two countries. Madam Secretary of State, can you call on the Government to support this motion and a return of taxes from Luxembourg to France, as our Swiss neighbours have been doing for more than three decades?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u143	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u144	Mr President, allow me to answer the question instead of my colleague Amélie de Montchalin, Secretary of State for European Affairs. The subject you are referring to is well known. In particular, it was discussed at the bilateral intergovernmental seminar held in March 2018, which marked an important milestone in our relations with Luxembourg. Since then, we have continued to raise this issue in each of our exchanges with the Grand Duchy. Sensitive to calls for a more equitable sharing of resources, we ask nothing but reciprocity. You are right to recall that there is an urgent need to act, particularly in favour of the French territories close to Luxembourg. Here again, we must take into account the interdependence created in Europe, which is acutely felt by the territories bordering the 3000 kilometres of borders that we share with our neighbours. We have set up freedom of movement, the single market and the single currency, without having a common legal framework. This creates dissymmetries, which cause socio-economic differences. We must fight these; We are determined to do so. With a partner like Luxembourg, this does not involve competition, because our common interest lies in balanced development, and therefore mutually beneficial. This is also the Europe of concrete; You know Mrs Amélie de Montchalin's commitment in this regard. From this perspective, the challenges you are talking about give us the opportunity to take a new stage in European integration, to go further, ensuring that we make the most of these areas where partnerships are formed as close to the ground as possible. That is the whole purpose of the work we are undertaking in the framework of the intergovernmental committee set up with Luxembourg, which has already led to progress. As you know, this forum has recently made it possible to sign a first major transport agreement, with the financing of the transport infrastructure needed, on our side of the border, for the movement of the French who travel to Luxembourg every day, at a parity of 240 million euros. This is an important first step. In this context, Luxembourg has in fact accepted the principle of co-financing projects aimed at advancing our relationship. For our part, we are committed to fostering the emergence of these projects, and therefore to supporting all the cross-border partnerships that could emerge. This work echoes the task currently being carried out by the Prefect of the Grand East Region, entrusted by the President of the Republic, in conjunction with the Luxembourg authorities, to define the main axes of a future-oriented co-development strategy aimed at better distributing activity, employment and growth, because it is truly inclusive. This ambition will be reinforced by the creation on 1 January of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories. In particular, it will be responsible for this cross-border dimension of spatial planning. In particular, it will ensure the implementation of a special territorial project for the High-Lorrain Country, including measures to enhance its attractiveness and competitiveness. Finally, both at national and local level, and in consultation with Luxembourg, we need to make better use of the potential of European instruments dedicated to strengthening territorial cohesion, and to mobilise these tools more effectively. That is the purpose of my colleague Amélie de Montchalin's efforts. In short, our ambition is to make these territories real laboratories of European integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u145	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u146	Since you speak on behalf of Amélie de Montchalin, like me on behalf of Caroline Fiat, send him the message: you are not answering my question. You're talking about co-development, competitiveness, when I'm talking about tax justice. We see Luxembourg as a tax haven, to which this qualification is spared only because it belongs to the European Union. It benefits many French cross-border workers without France benefiting in return from the tax that it should withdraw from it. Indeed, part of the French infrastructure, of the French training, serves these borderers who return to France after completing their work in Luxembourg. I therefore regret that you are not taking a very clear position in favour of a tax surrender from Luxembourg, like Switzerland.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u147	Mr Lionel Causse has the floor to put his question, No 831, on marine protected areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u148	My question is about the national marine protected areas strategy. Following the national colloquium on marine protected areas held in Biarritz in October, the President of the Republic undertook to protect 30 per cent of French territory, 10 per cent of which was "full naturality" by 2022. France's responsibility is commensurate with its maritime space, the second largest in the world. These commitments must be welcomed, and the increase in our ambitions to protect marine areas over the next ten years. It seems to me, however, that one point deserves to be clarified. Indeed, the notion of "full naturality" does not correspond to any category defining the international standards of protection identified in the classification of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature. It therefore casts doubt on the effectiveness of these measures in the preservation and development of marine ecosystems. Mr Secretary of State for Transport, could you clarify what these areas of full naturality will be in terms of regulation? More generally, I would like to know your views on overcoming the surface logic of marine protected areas in order to better integrate a logic of biological efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u149	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u150	Ten years ago, less than 2% of French marine waters were part of a protected marine area. Today, the marine protected areas network covers more than 23% of French marine waters, or more than 2400000 square kilometres. This makes France, as you pointed out, one of the most active states in the defence of marine biodiversity. However, there is an urgent need to go further, as highlighted in the report on the state of biodiversity of IPBES, the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services. That is why the President of the Republic announced that, in 2022, protected areas would cover 30 per cent of the territory, one third of which was in strong protection. In order to implement this ambition, we need a common strategy for terrestrial and marine protected areas for the decade 2020-2030. The co-construction of this strategy with all stakeholders started at the symposiums held in Biarritz at the end of October. It will be presented at the World Conservation Congress in June 2020 in Marseille. The concept of "strong protection" will be defined in this strategy. The aim is to ensure the effectiveness and effectiveness of measures in order to preserve and sustainably develop marine ecosystems. The Ecological Defence Council has already endorsed two large projects in this direction. First, the creation of a national nature reserve in the Glorious Archipelago will effectively protect remarkable ecosystems under increasing pressure. Secondly, we have launched in the French Southern and Antarctic Territories an ambitious process of creating areas with a high level of protection, which will involve up to 1.6 million square kilometres. Finally, strengthening the protection of our oceans is a global issue. We will therefore carry this ambition at the World Nature Congress and at the next Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity, at the end of 2020, in China.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u151	Mr Lionel Causse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u152	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for this information, which goes in the right direction and attests to the commitment of the Government. As a coastal elected representative, I measure the issues on which we must work collectively. I therefore look forward to receiving further clarification from the Government in 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u153	Mr Thomas Gassilloud, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 835, on rail freight in the Brévenne valley.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u154	My question concerns mobility in the valley of the Brévenne, which irrigates the Lyon west to the Loire, passing through the Rhône department. The mobility in this valley has historically been ensured by a railway. Today, passenger traffic is still possible, on a large part of the line, from Lyon-Saint-Paul train station to the municipality of Sain-Bel, thanks to a well-used and highly appreciated tram train. Another section of the line serves only for freight and transports quarries production; the prefect's orders of operation also contain an obligation that part of that production pass through the railway. A final section, which once served the commune of Sainte-Foy-l'Argentière, is no longer used at all. In parallel to this railway line is the old RN89, largely congested during peak hours, which crosses the city centre of L'Arbresle. This is why many inhabitants, aware of the need for an ecological transition, expressed during the great national debate the wish to see a larger part of this line again accessible to travellers, even hoping, in the long term, a service to Sainte-Foy-l'Argentière. On the contrary, SNCF Réseau announced the closure of the freight segment. For about ten kilometers of missing rail, the immediate effect of this measure will be to throw on an already overloaded road each year about 9,000 additional trucks, which will often have to travel hundreds of kilometers to deliver their cargo – because, of course, the transport started by the road will end by the road. Ironically, it is a matter of delivering ballast for SNCF! In addition, this closure would further remove the prospect of a reopening of the line to travellers. The work to be considered in order to avoid this measure is estimated at around EUR 15 million by SNCF Network. It was ready to contribute, as was the region and the quarries: 50 per cent of the funding was already provided. Mr Secretary of State, what assistance could the State provide for the maintenance of this section? More generally, this concrete case reveals the importance of the mobility policy bill, which we adopted on final reading last month, and in particular its section 51, which provides for the definition in 2020 of a national strategy for the development of rail freight. Can you tell us how this strategy is going to be defined, and what amounts will be invested, in particular for upgrading the "freight capillary networks"?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u155	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u156	Each year, the State spends EUR 10 million on freight lines at national level in order to support the various actors in local partnerships on a case-by-case basis. The aim is to propel a dynamic of support for railway infrastructure in the logistics organisation of the last kilometers and to unite local actors, institutional as well as industrial, around shared actions. The State usually takes part in the works up to EUR 1 to 1.5 million per operation, up to a limit of 30% of their cost. Priority interventions in this region were launched in 2018 and 2019 on the Ambérieu-Lagnieu and Albertville-Ugine lines. The financing of the Brévenne freight line is not yet finalised at this stage, particularly in view of its high cost compared to other similar operations. If the line remained solely for freight, the State's participation in the single title of the freight capping programme could be considered in the above-mentioned financial framework, i.e. up to 30% of the costs and availability permitted by the annual allocation of 10 million at national level. However, in the event that the partners consider extending the use of the line to passengers, for example with a tram-train solution, a broader question should be asked as to the most appropriate means of financing, involving the different local authorities concerned. Indeed, the State would not be able to finance such an operation by means of appropriations allocated to rail freight only.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u157	Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u158	Thank you for your answer, Secretary of State. The territories look forward to this ambitious freight strategy. As for the problem of mobility in the Brévenne valley, I will allow myself to make an appointment with your office in the next few days in order to advance this issue with the local elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u159	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u160	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor to put on question No 839 by Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine, concerning the weather of November 2019 in the Drôme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u161	I am asking this question on behalf of Mrs Anthoine, Member of Parliament for the fourth district of Drôme, where she is blocked because of the strikes. On 14 November, Drôme and several departments were hit hard by a snowy episode with serious consequences. The Territory's inhabitants were cut off from essential electricity, water, telephone and Internet services. They found themselves deprived of the consequences of this snowy episode, without any readability on the recovery times of essential services and the inability to reach emergency numbers. The population of the department then felt a strong sense of abandonment, because of the total isolation in which it found itself. This feeling was all the more strong because, contrary to the statement made by the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition at the question-and-answer meeting of the Government on 19 November, the situation was still not restored, five days later, for many households. The level of reactivity of the operator Enedis gave rise to a feeling of deep dissatisfaction. The fact that we had to wait several days before vital energy supplies were restored raises questions. Did Enedis properly measure the magnitude of the consequences of this snowy episode? To avoid reviving the chaos of November 2019, what solutions do you propose in order to better support the population and improve the responsiveness of operators in the restoration of the electricity supply network? With regard to compensation, what means does the Government intend to make available to compensate for the losses suffered by the inhabitants, businesses, farmers and the entire population of the Drôme territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u162	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u163	The shutdown on the electricity distribution network caused by an episode of snow in the south-east affected nearly 330,000 customers on the morning of Friday, 15 November. This type of snowy episode is exceptional in its intensity. The damage concerned all the infrastructures SNCF, TEN – Electricity transmission network –, Enedis but the diagnosis was difficult to establish due to traffic problems. To restore food, Enedis mobilized important means since more than 2300 people worked at the heart of the crisis in less than a day. Where the network could not be repaired, Enedis installed generators. Dozens of tanker trucks have been requisitioned. The mobilization was therefore strong to restore electricity in the affected areas and the situation was finally restored for the entire population on 24 November. However, a more in-depth feedback will be needed in order to analyse the circumstances of the event, the means used to restore food and inform elected officials and the population. It will also be an opportunity to question the resilience of power grids to extreme climate events. As such, without waiting for the conclusion of this feedback, a grant of €1.6 million will be granted before the end of the year to Drôme by the Government through FACÉ, the amortization fund for electrification expenses, to assist electrification unions in carrying out reconstruction investments on the networks. Finally, compensation schemes for power cuts of more than five consecutive hours already exist – they allow the customer to benefit from a reduction in his subscription. The most affected households should be compensated up to 600 euros, given that the average for all private customers is 110 euros. In addition, the insurance of the affected persons may cover certain losses related to these cuts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u164	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u165	[[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] [[Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds again]] I'll point out to you that it was only snow! The state of our networks is deplorable, whether it be the electricity grid, the telephone network, the railways. Expenditure is increasing, debt is also increasing, but it is not being used to invest in networks. Your answer leaves me skeptical.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u166	It's called neoliberalism! Less state, more market: that's the result! The Secretary of State said everything himself by talking about "clients"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u167	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor to put her question, No 840, on maritime governance in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u168	My question concerns air quality in port areas. This issue relates to the protection of the environment and public safety. It requires joint action by all actors, in particular the State. The air quality and noise level are monitored continuously in the port of Nice since 2017, when it was taken over by the metropolis Nice-Côte d'Azur. Regular sampling shows point peaks in nitrogen dioxide and particulate matter. Emissions from tourist and commercial vessels are of concern. This is why the PACA region – Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur – has just announced a plan for zero smoke stopovers in order to limit pollution. As early as 2025, 30 million euros will be invested to electrify cruise ships at docks so that the engines do not run permanently. For its part, the metropolis plans to install a power supply by a group with hydrogen or liquefied natural gas. As far as the Mediterranean basin is concerned, the metropolis supports France's initiative to create a regulatory area for pollutant emissions. With stricter standards, we could force shipowners to use very low sulphur marine fuels and ships to equip themselves with cleaner engines. This regulation is already bearing fruit in the North Sea and the Baltic Sea.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u169	Yes! When there's a settlement, it works!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u170	[[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] The comparative study that was presented to you last January demonstrates the urgent need to strengthen these standards. What is the status of France's project with the IMO, the international maritime organization? Communities have chosen to invest in the air quality of our citizens; Will the Government do the same and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u171	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u172	France is carrying out the project to create a special area for the reduction of pollution emissions from ships in the Mediterranean basin. Our action for the ECA area – a controlled emission zone – must be part of both the diplomatic time and the IMO regulatory framework, but we must first raise awareness and unite the States on both shores of the Mediterranean. Based on a comparative study of costs and benefits, published in January 2019, France has been actively conducting negotiations since the beginning of the year to convince its partners. I also travelled to London at the IMO headquarters on 26 November to defend the French project and environmental ambition for maritime transport. Our action is also part of the Barcelona Convention for the Protection of the Marine and Coastal Environment of the Mediterranean. At the last Conference of the Parties, in early December, the Western Mediterranean States reached an agreement to deposit a draft low-emission zone for sulphur oxides in the IMO as early as 2022. In parallel, complementary scientific studies will be carried out to analyse the effects of regulating nitrogen oxide emissions. Given the magnitude of the major public health issue for residents, we are determined to act. Beyond this project, we are developing a smoke-free port strategy, through the development of electric dock connections, alternative energy supply services and the possibility of taking emergency measures in case of peak pollution. Finally, as of 1 January 2020, the global regulation of marine fuels will undergo a fundamental change for the ecological transition of the global fleet: the sulphur content will be divided by seven. The controls carried out in French ports will ensure compliance with these rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u173	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u174	I am very pleased that France is taking part in this essential challenge for us but also for the other countries around the Mediterranean. However, it is the communities, in particular the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region, that carry out and finance the actions. It would be interesting for the State to take its part in this very strong commitment. Air quality is a key issue for all our citizens. Large, densely populated cities in the Mediterranean basin are involved. We are waiting for the State to support us financially.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u175	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor to put his question, No 824, on energy and heating cuts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u176	Secretary of State, this is winter, it's cold and the night falls early. I want to be the spokesman for mute and often hidden distress. People are hungry. People live on the streets and 2000 of them die there every year. This winter, among those who have a dwelling, seven in ten French will delay as much as possible when they turn on their heating because they fear that they will not be able to pay their bill. I'm ringing the alarm! In the first six months of the year, electricity cutbacks increased by 18%, gas cutbacks by 10%. In 2018, 572,000 denominations were recorded throughout the year; In 2019, this figure was reached as early as September. How will hundreds of thousands of families live without electricity or gas? In my opinion, this social decline began when the companies that supplied these goods were privatized. In 2004, markets were opened to competition, allegedly to lower prices. Then we sold the public company GDF to the multinational Suez. The result is that tariffs have increased by 50%, both for gas and electricity. Access to energy is no longer considered as a universal right, but as a commodity. In fact, Mr. Secretary of State, you yourself have just spoken of private electricity users as "customers".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u177	Consumers!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u178	No! So far, we were users. For a shareholder, a delay in payments on invoices is not a human problem, but an accounting issue. We think the opposite is true. The emergency remains. Winter's here. Gas prices rose again in November. Electricity prices will rise again in January. We ask you to freeze the regulated tariffs for the year 2020, because if you do not block them, poverty will be added to poverty. This will not only lead to political discredit; It will also spread suffering.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u179	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u180	Freezing regulated tariffs would not be an appropriate response to the fight against energy insecurity. Not all consumers are affected by regulated tariffs: they have the freedom to choose between regulated tariffs and market offers, which can be adapted to their needs. The National Energy Ombudsman offers an independent bid comparison to help consumers choose the one that is best suited to their criteria and needs. In addition, it is stipulated in the law that tariffs must reflect the reality of the costs incurred by suppliers. Their arbitrary freezing would inevitably be condemned by the judge and the differential to consumers would have to be rethought afterwards. This has already happened. Energy insecurity, on the other hand, was an essential issue, against which the Government was fighting by various means. I am thinking of the winter truce, during which any interruption of electricity or gas is prohibited by law. There is also the enlargement and upgrading of the energy cheque in 2019, which now helps 5.7 million modest households to pay energy bills for their homes – almost 850 million euros are now spent on this aid. Another example is the deployment of schemes to help households register in the energy transition and live in less energy-efficient housing, such as the ISCED, the energy transition tax credit, which will be transformed into a premium for low-income households on 1 January 2020; Energy saving certificates, which allow modest households to receive an exceptional premium to finance certain energy saving works; financial assistance from the National Agency for Habitat Improvement; the simplified zero-rate eco-loan, which is extended until 2021, or reduced-rate VAT on energy renovation works.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u181	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u182	Mr Secretary of State, it is therefore the competition law that has increased tariffs on the pretext of increasing suppliers and today prevents us from asking you to block regulated tariffs. For the only answer to people who are cold and in the dark, she makes us say: go to the mediator to get a better price! You kindly recalled that the actual costs of energy should be passed on to prices and that the judge would condemn suppliers who would not comply with that obligation. This, in my view, does not answer the essential question. Because these costs are not only those of raw materials: they also include dividends paid to shareholders, who are pure parasites, because we did not need private capital to operate the networks before! That is why I am in favour of providing users with the first cubic metres of gas and the first kilowatt hours free of charge. All these networks were paid by the community, that is, by the taxes of those who preceded us; It gives rights to those who have access to it now.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u183	Mrs Valérie Gomez-Bassac has the floor to put her question, No. 836, on wild dumps.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u184	Everywhere in our territory, incivilities flourish. Wild dumps are sometimes the expression of despair or the desire to save candlesticks; They are sometimes, too, the result of an organized mafia system. These incivilities killed one last summer: Jean-Mathieu Michel, Mayor of Signes. His death is, unfortunately, an indication of the difficulty that the publishers have in combating this scourge. For both individuals and professionals, illegal waste disposal should no longer be an easy solution. We must take up the triple challenge of protecting the environment, landscapes and the economy. For the environment, first of all, because the deposited elements are rarely inert: there are televisions or freezers, so many metals and fluids that pollute the soil and damage the ecosystem. For the maintenance of the landscapes, then, because I refuse that the approaches to our roads, the scents of our forests and the peripheries of our cities turn into dumps or open-air trash. Finally, we must respond to this economic disaster, which generates costs of several million euros for the community. Last year, ADEME – the Environment and Energy Management Agency – estimated that this cost could reach EUR 50 per capita in some municipalities. We have to put an end to it! On the other hand, the cost of recycling products delivered to nature is not considered in the estimates, which creates a real distortion of competition between professionals. We must warn, what we do largely; But we must also crack down, so that wild and illegal landfills are no longer an option. In the Var, they go back to time immemorial. Thanks to the action of the department, including the action of Ms. Poirson and Mr. de Rugy when he was in office, this topic is beginning to move forward. The Castellet discharge, which was more than 35 years old, was sealed. Thank you! Yes, thank you, because our fellow citizens are sick of these decades of immobilization and of all kinds of crooks that they pay the high price for. However, a new landfill has just opened in the same area. It is time for Var and France to regain sound waste management so that illegal landfills are no longer an option. As we begin our consideration of the bill on the fight against waste and the circular economy, what policy do you intend to pursue so that we can no longer be allowed to soil our beautiful lands in this way?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u185	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u186	Madam Member, you are calling my attention to the fight against wild dumps and illegal depots throughout France. The Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition set up a working group that met for the first time on 22 May 2018 to provide communities with more effective tools to combat these phenomena. This is a commitment from the road map to a circular economy. On the other hand, the draft law on the fight against waste and the circular economy, defended by Mrs Brune Poirson, currently under discussion in Parliament, provides for several measures to facilitate the sanctioning of illegal deposits. It will be possible, for example, to entrust the task of monitoring the public roads. The mayor will also be able to transfer his special police responsibility for waste to the chairman of the group of communities exercising the competence of waste collection. Another measure is to allow the municipalities to recover the sums collected for administrative fines imposed by the mayor against wild deposits. In addition, thanks to the Act establishing the French Biodiversity Office, the Government has made it possible to use video protection to prevent the abandonment of waste. In particular, the Act gives environmental inspectors and municipal police officers access to the vehicle registration service to combat waste management. Finally, the Department's departments are developing a guide for communities with tools to help mayors sanction waste disposal. This guide is expected to be published in early 2020. As you can see, many construction sites have been set up to combat waste disposal. This work will continue in 2020 in collaboration with professional federations and communities to ensure that offenders are punished and waste is stopped.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u187	Mrs Valérie Gomez-Bassac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u188	Thank you, Secretary of State, and I count on your commitment, because I speak for farmers who regularly see their land downgraded, and for residents who see trucks passing dangerously on inappropriate roads throughout the day. I know the extent of the work you are currently doing, and I count on your support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u189	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to speak on her question, No 856, on the TER network in Béziers and Narbonne.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u190	My question concerns the forthcoming reorganisation of the TER network in Occitanie, which should reduce the city of Béziers by ten skilled jobs. These employees are expected to move to Narbonne, about 30 kilometres from Béziers. For the Biterrois, this departure would be very bad news. Of course, given Paris, this transfer does not involve a big world, but, on the spot, when we conduct a field policy, it is obvious that this departure brings an additional blow to an already very fragile territory in terms of jobs, particularly skilled jobs. With this departure, a whole dynamism, particularly economic, would leave the Biterrois. When the city of Béziers has an unemployment rate of 13.30 per cent while the national average is 8.4 per cent, it is simply incomprehensible. While we are constantly hearing about the cohesion of the territories, I confess that I find it difficult to understand how a reorganization leading to the departure of ten qualified people would contribute to this pseudo-cohesion. The State should be consistent. On the one hand, in July, you signed a convention to combat poverty and access to employment with the Hérault department for the period 2019-2021 – which I welcome – and on the other hand, you are doing nothing to save jobs and avoid a new hemorrhage. In 2018, EDF Energies nouvelles announced the consolidation and relocation of the sites of Colombiers and Béziers – almost 200 jobs – to Montpellier. This reorganization will ultimately not take place – at least not immediately – because we have fought. In 2015, it was Galeries Lafayette that had to close in Béziers; Again, because we fought, jobs didn't leave town. In 2019, it is the turn of the SNCF to threaten about ten jobs in western Herault. What do you intend to do in practice to help us maintain these jobs?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u191	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u192	Madam Member, you have informed me of your questions about a project for organisational change within the regional management of SNCF Mobilitys Occitanie, which is reflected, in particular, in the transfer of about ten jobs from Béziers to Narbonne. The Government was sensitive to the employment situation in the regions and was particularly committed to ensuring that SNCF maintained a balanced territorial presence. As part of its strategic programme for the development of TERs, SNCF Mobilitys carries out various transformation projects to increase the performance of rail transport services. The aim is to better meet the expectations of travellers and organising authorities, i.e. the regions. The context of local transformation of the TER offer has led the regional management of SNCF Mobilitys Occitanie to change its territorial organisation. The company assured me that these adjustments would be limited. Finally, I would like to point out that the State is not intended to intervene with regard to SNCF Mobilitys' internal organisational choices, which enjoy managerial autonomy. In addition, TERs are the responsibility of the regions, which contract periodically with SNCF.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u193	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u194	I understand that the State is not intended to intervene in SNCF's decisions. Nevertheless, I believe that you want to pursue a proactive policy in favour of medium-sized cities. The municipality of Béziers benefits from the plan "Action coeur de ville" intended to revitalize its city centre. It has three priority neighbourhoods in the city, in which a policy is pursued to promote access to employment for people who are sometimes left out. The cohesion policy of the territories also provides for helping the territories to develop their potential by stimulating economic activity. The signals are therefore contradictory in the eyes of the people of the country. On the one hand, there is a desire to boost and safeguard employment and a proactive policy to combat poverty and unemployment is being promoted. On the other hand, the state would not have a say when SNCF decides to relocate jobs in a totally arbitrary manner. Moreover, even if I depart from the subject, I would like to return to the question of the railway line linking Montpellier, Béziers and Perpignan. If qualified jobs are eliminated on the TER Occitanie network, let's do everything possible to ensure that, within a relatively short period of time, jobs are created in the Biterrois thanks to the creation of this line that we have been waiting for for more than thirty years with real impatience – even local newspapers wonder about the Government's silence in this regard –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u195	We'll send them invitations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u196	... and let us create a new dynamic thanks to the TGV station which is intended to settle in Béziers!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u197	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-10-O1095.u198	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government. Further discussion of the draft law on combating waste and the circular economy. The meeting is adjourned.
