ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bioethics bill (No. 2187, 2243).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u2	On Friday evening, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, stopping with identical amendments Nos. 1924 and 2038 to Article 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u3	As Amendment No 1924 is not defended, Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor in support of Amendment No 2038.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u4	We are again addressing a sensitive issue. I can understand the issues of children born from medically assisted procreation – LDCs – with donor; I can understand a quest that is, no doubt, that of each of us, a quest in which no one gets all the answers he expects and which can be a powerful engine of personal stories, a quest that can be satisfied in so many ways. But this raises many questions for us. I would like to reiterate my attachment to the anonymity of the gift as one of the guarantees of the gratuity of the act, its disinterestedness, its entire character – including, perhaps even fortiori, for gametes. Do you think this gift should derogate from the rules? We fear that your choice will lead to too many shortcuts and may weaken the entire gift building. Free of charge, anonymity, volunteerism, finally, preserve us all. You tell us that anonymity would be preserved since the identity of the donor would not be revealed to the child's parents. But it would still be revealed... And legal demonstrations won't change anything. By the way, parents will soon claim the possibility of knowing the donor a priori, because there is nothing more intimate, because the donor can be in contact with the child by his or her majority. The child's right is invoked as a justification, even though the right in question will apply to his or her majority. We wonder about the effects of this possibility on children in their development, about the expectation that it will make them grow in them and about the illusions that they will be able to feed. Where, in the end, is the best interests of the child? We do not know well, in the end, how far this argument of the right of access to origins, which receives many acceptances, leads us. It seems to us to have more consequences than it seems, and it is perhaps the great inconsistency of the text. It seems to us that this measure will profoundly alter the spirit of the LDC and, in a way, will accentuate the difference between couples, or between children, whether or not they are born from a donor LDC. And one can only question the fact that this provision is adopted at the same time as the LDC is extended to women's couples and single women. It may also be feared that it will alter family relations, at the risk of confusion, as demonstrated by the demands made during the debate, to allow the encounter between children from the same donor, or even between the children born of the donor and the children of the donor, without any other connection between them. This will create relationships that may be beautiful, but that may also become problematic because of this particular bond, which comes from a gift, can create a feeling of debt and guilt. Thus, in the shadow of the law, we can insinuate ourselves forms of recognition, or even compensation, if only symbolic. We're talking about the child's waiting, but what will the donor's waiting for, knowing he can be found? How can we believe that this possible donor eruption won't change anything for a couple, for a woman alone? In fact, one could discuss, from an ethical point of view, the universalizable nature of this provision and wonder, for example, whether it is right to create an obligation for the donor to accept the lifting of his anonymity without consideration – counterparties that, moreover, we do not wish. Finally, this leads us to wonder about the notion of origin, thus paradoxically reduced to their biological or, more precisely, genetic dimension – on the blood side – but also about the notion of identity which, thus understood, refers to much broader debates. In my view, we are shaped by our family history, our encounters, our readings, our work, our biographical effort, our mooring or detachment efforts. We are also shaped by what we know about our history – for example, being born of the generosity of a gift. But who really knows everything about its design? The origins, in this case, are the parents, their desire, their project, their own parents, their grandparents, and probably far beyond. We integrate, unconsciously and consciously, the baggage of humanity. The human essence is indeed the world of the human person, and this world of relations is the whole of social relations. It is our individual ability to register, our collective ability to allow it to shape and humanize us. So what we're going to find in the genes is worth the risks we're going to take? We wonder what the real answers to genetics are, apart from those contained in the non-identifiable data. What is, in the end, the meaning of the gift? If it is done well by a person, it has a social dimension, because the person who gives, if he has his own motivations, the fact in the name of what we have decided to make possible as a right, through technique, in the name of society. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] That is why our reflection does not lead us to return to the cult of likelihood, on the contrary: we discuss the establishment of this new bond in the order of the family. Our reservations are therefore great about this provision, which we believe deserves much more thought. And it seems to us that it may ultimately weaken the right to reproductive medical assistance – AMP – and its extension to women's couples and single women. Did we really go to the end of ethical questioning?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u5	I call Mrs Coralie Dubost, rapporteur of the special committee on bioethics, to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u6	I have heard your lengthy presentation, Mr Dharréville, which answers the questions with which we have finished the sitting last Friday night. I've been thinking a lot this weekend about our exchanges. I thought that, if there was still so much confusion on the issue of origin, anonymity, access to identifying or non-identifying data, filiation, perhaps it was because we had failed to recall, in advance, an indispensable word – the idea of which is found in your remarks – even if it is not necessary for us to include it in the law to think about it: "thank you." Thank you to all the donors who have given in France for decades. They deserve our gratitude, our consideration and our respect. This respect has, in particular, for a period of time been to protect their identity vis-à-vis all. That being said, precisely because the gift is altruistic, generous – as you have mentioned – we must be able, as legislators, to hear the questions, the demands for consideration and respect of the children of a gift, who have grown up, who are today major people; I refer here to children born of artificial insemination with sperm donation – IAD – not homoparental but well heteroparental. We can assume that in the decades to come, other questions will arise. In the meantime, it has been said and I hear it repeated with great serenity, the question is not that of the search for a father – the law already confirms it: filiation with the donor is forbidden, and it will remain so. The question is more about genetic history: why do I run faster than the rest of my family? Why am I so good at mathematics? Why do I have red hair while the others have brown and blond hair? Thus, I insist, the questions that arise are genetic in nature and are not related to the parenting relationship. And the need to know the story of his origins is not the need to change the story of his family history. It really seems to me important that we make the difference, and that we make it stand out to all past and future donors, with great tranquility. Let us not therefore make this confusion; Children from an ADI don't do it. Because we respect former donors, none of them will be forced to disclose non-identifiable data or identifying data. The Minister for Solidarity and Health recalled this, and the text is very clear: there will be no obligation for previous donors. On the other hand, future donors will have to consent to the disclosure of their non-identifying or identifying data. This will, therefore, necessarily result from a choice. As far as the previous donors are concerned, the text has already evolved somewhat in committee, and I will submit an amendment to you. On the one hand, donors under the previous regime will be able to demonstrate that they allow children from their donation to access non-identifiable or identifiable data. On the other hand, one can imagine that when a child from a gift, once of age, wishes it, one asks the donor. We already know how to deal with this situation in France. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You were right to recall, Mr. Dharréville, that the gift is altruistic. The Assembly not only respects donors, but thanks them, as does France as a whole. And, because we respect the gift and what the LDC is, because we do not confuse with biological likelihood, because we do not want to create illusions, we are not afraid to assume that some children have access to part of their genetic narrative, not their family narrative. I have an unfavorable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u7	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u8	I respect Mr Dharréville's questions, which are obviously well-founded: we cannot assure, in a very certain way, that the evolution will be the one we expect. However, it seems to us that, for the majority of children, it will be a real benefit to have access to non-identifiable data or even to identifying data. I recall that donors who have granted this consent from the outset will never be obliged to meet the children born of the gift. The fact that access to identifying data is given will not force them to encounter physically, and the commission to access non-identifiable data and the identity of the third-party donor will remind the child. In addition, the law is not retroactive. On the other hand, let us make sure that access to the origins is not described as "lifting anonymity", for the one who gave the gametes will remain unknown to the one who receives them, and vice versa. The data will be disclosed to a third party from the donation, but this does not change the rules governing the anonymity of the donation, which apply between donors and recipients, as well as in the case of blood transfusions and organ, tissue or cell transplants. The anonymity of the donation therefore remains guaranteed by the current public health code. The Government's opinion was therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u9	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u10	This precise point has been the subject of a rather long reflection between the Insoumis; It's been debated. The conclusion is contradictory, since we do not see all things in the same way; We will see what each of us has chosen from the debate at the time of the vote. However, a majority of us have expressed the point of view that I will present to you and which joins Pierre Dharréville's position. You have understood the principle which we demand and which I summarized at the beginning of the discussion of the text: we believe that filiation is of a "declarative" nature, a great word to say that in our eyes it has no biological truth, it has no truth but social and cultural. If we approve the bill, as we understand it – after all, everyone understands it as he wishes – it is because it contains nothing that contradicts this vision of things. We objected to those who said that there is a biological truth from which filiation proceeds – they said it with a conviction equal to ours and, perhaps, with as much or as little prejudice, if we admit that our exchanges are a matter of free deliberation and that all points of view have their value. We see a close connection between this idea and that which human societies also derive from biological truth. I said before you last week that there is a connection between this conception and the law of blood, when we consider, for our part, that filiation is only social and cultural. I know that this is a shocking idea, because we live in a different context: in this room, each one has, little or no prou, a mother and a father, and it is difficult to hear that it can be otherwise. Having said that, we plead that we should not circumvent the truth of what we are doing: we establish a new type of filiation. It will be a minority in society, because, in fact, it will not be the case most frequently, but we are putting forward a new filiation, which we fully and totally recognize, not half, partly or in small pieces! I am of course thinking of homosexual couples – I will mention later heterosexual couples, who are also committed, colleagues, by the decision you will have to make. Let's not turn around the pot: we recognize the filiation of a child who has two parents of the same sex! A first concern was expressed by some associations of children from LDCs, who referred to the suffering of children who were unaware of their origins. It is not in my intentions or those of my friends to discuss this suffering, to weigh it up or compare it with other things. However, it is not, for us, a grounding argument of rights. The suffering of human identity is innumerable. They sometimes cause dramatic situations. I remember these terrible situations, in Argentina, of children abducted from their parents murdered and raised by other families. When their grandmothers ended up finding them, some, upset by the situation, revised the history of their lives; Others refused it absolutely, not wanting to know anything about it and claiming that their parents were the ones who raised them. The latter's decision caused terrible suffering for themselves, but also almost as violent suffering for their grandmothers, since it nullified a life course, namely all the efforts they had devoted to seeking their grandchildren. I give this example only to show how life can bring about incredible and yet very real situations, as is the real violence of human relations thus taken from certain blind angles. With all due respect, I mean that, if I understand the suffering associated with the ignorance of the origins, I think it rests on an illusion, that parents would be something other than those who love and raise us. It is an illusion that biological truth; She doesn't have a reality. However, it can have a concrete impact, and that is why I am joining my comrade Dharréville. Knowledge of non-identifiable data can indeed be a considerable scientific asset in the event of transplantation or in order to know the diseases that may affect the child. On this point, I think that Pierre Dharréville is right, like my comrades who have spoken in the same direction in committee. Its amendment, which deserves our support, aims to remove the possibility for persons from LDCs to have access to donor identification data, while allowing the transmission of non-identifiable data, those that contribute to the well-being of the data subject. In other words, we are in favour of the transmission of non-identifiable data, and against those of the identifying data, for the philosophical reasons I have just presented. Allow me to point out that, if we admit the transmission of the identifying data, we would insert an additional parent – and this applies to both heterosexual and homosexual couples; I don't want to hide behind the heterosexual couple to highlight something that wouldn't be good for homosexual couples. In the case of the homosexual couple, it would be to reduce the new filiation that we have just created to an arrangement of circumstance: life would have made things so, but there would be a truth, and a parent would suddenly emerge. Pierre Dharréville referred to the crazy situations that the measure could cause. If we base our reasoning on the request of those who seek to know, then all requests can be considered legitimate. Last week, some colleagues opposed me with a purely formal reasoning of deduction; I confess that mine, at this moment, comes from the same spirit. However, if one agrees to respond to certain requests, why not answer others, such as a child from a LDC who would like to know his brothers and sisters? We may find ourselves in increasingly implausible situations. I am speaking first of all to those who wanted to go through with this bill. The votes showed that they were the most numerous in the Chamber. First, let us not invent something that circumvents the new filiation that we have just created! Secondly, let us not open the door to an endless process and crazy situations! If we recognize that suffering is the foundation of a right, then it can be extended to dozens of situations, and we can no longer control anything. Then I want to talk to the Conservatives, try to convince them. I understand that, from their point of view, the right to origin is a way of restoring a truth that they have not demolished until now.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u11	We're consistent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u12	[[Smile on several benches]] They basically say to me, "What are you talking about, Mr. Mélenchon? What is this purely cultural filiation story? You deny evidence! I say "Mr Mélenchon," because I do not want to quote the whole Chamber. However, colleagues, I caution you: you are in the process of inventing two new legal subjects. First of all, there is the child without rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u13	It's not us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u14	It is a return to the box of the natural child; the child will have two parents but also a biological breeder, on which he will have no rights. How long do you think this fiction can last? If you accept today, on the basis of suffering, access to the identifying data, the same will come tomorrow to tell you their extreme suffering to know their breeder without having any rights over him or to be able to ask him. Then there is the problem of the breeder himself. Let's assume he's expressing a refusal. Some argue about the suffering of not knowing, but what will be the suffering of knowing that the breeder knows and refuses? Excuse me, but I think she'll be worse. This would create a kind of abandonment clause along the way. Moreover, if the donor accepts, why does he not have any rights? Most of us believe that they have not rights but duties towards their children. But these duties become rights. In the Republic, the notion of duty does not exist, it was debated and decided a long time ago. The only duty in the Republic is to recognize and respect the rights of others. In short, you will create two new legal statutes: the father without rights, and the child without rights over his father. I think it's a lot! With regard to the heterosexual couple, I am very surprised that the Conservatives, who are the supporters – I do not put any derision in these terms –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u15	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u16	...of the traditional family and the Napoleonic Code, accept the idea that a third party, in a family, arises simply because it would have donated its gametes at some point. [[Murmures on the benches of the LR group]] I conclude by asking you a question as radically drawn from materialistic philosophy as all the rest of what I told you earlier. How, please, would the donation of semen, or gametes in general, be of a different nature than that of a donation of blood?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u17	Because it's ID!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u18	[[Murmures on several benches of the LaREM group]] Because it's the origin of life, you'll tell me. But the blood donation makes it possible to survive! How is the gift of gametes different from the gift of a liver, stomach, lung, heart? For us, there's no difference! These are organ donations, and organ donation is free and anonymous. [[Same movements]] It would not be in anyone's mind to ask for the identity of someone who has donated his heart to create a personal or family relationship with his loved ones. That would be contrary to everything we believe. You may find my argument unacceptable, but it is rational. For us, the gift of gametes is just a gift like any other. Therefore, there can be no question that it should form a special relationship. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] These are the reasons why we oppose the idea that a right to biological filiation applies, to which we do not believe. We follow Pierre Dharréville, who offers us the possibility of accessing the donor's only non-identifiable data, because they can contribute to the well-being and survival of the people concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u19	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u20	President Mélenchon just spent eleven minutes and six seconds...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u21	He does what he wants!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u22	... to strengthen our position that, from the moment when the LDC is allowed for a single woman or a couple of women, we are entering into a field of inextricable difficulties, in particular, but not only, from a legal point of view. I note with interest, Mr. Mélenchon, that you referred to the father, when he is simply a male gamete donor. You agree that children born to LDCs have access to non-identifiable information, particularly medically relevant information. On the other hand, in your view, there is a need to oppose the right to know its origins, which is, however, the claim of a number of associations and children from LDCs, to whom legislation does not currently recognize this possibility of knowing or not, in order to build themselves. There is some kind of contradiction between your idea that only social status creates the bond of filiation – if I understood your present intervention and that of last week – and the complete hiatus of the situation of children born of a gift to whom it is explained that they have a mother and no father, or two mothers, which in essence raises a question about a potential donor. As much as I can understand that you are defending the fact that access to non-identifiable data is allowed, I am not at all sure that the child should be denied the opportunity to know his or her origin and the identity of the donor. The great difficulty is to preserve the child's freedom of access to a possible contact request, but it is not the same as allowing the child to know where he or she comes from and what the characteristics of the donor, for example his or her geographical origin, are overall. I agree with you on one point: we are not immune that children born of a gift for a woman alone or for a couple of women absolutely want to meet the donor or, at the very least, have contact with him. This is the whole difficulty and contradiction of the text. We will have the same debate about filiation, because this subject is inextricable. There is no good solution; Only bad solutions are now proposed. However, I recognize a form of consistency in the text: you cannot prevent a child who has only one mother and no father, or who has two mothers, from asking where he comes from. Indeed, the biological reality is imposed on the child: he knows well that he was not born of a mother and a stork, or of two mothers, because it is not possible! In any case, there is an obvious contradiction in your demonstration, Mr. Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u23	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u24	President Mélenchon has shown this, we are in full contradiction. The text is to replace a biological filiation with a social filiation established by law: it makes two mothers the parents of a child as if the child had been born of a natural union. By offering to raise anonymity, you attest that a gamete donation is not an organ donation, contrary to what has been said. We give not a'material', as we heard in the mouth of the rapporteur, Mr Touraine, but an identity, a genealogy, a journey, a past.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u25	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u26	In proposing this measure, you clearly recognize that a child raised in a couple of women will eventually express such a request, even though you deny the psychological impact of the situation. So there are many questions that arise. You are there faced with an obvious contradiction: to raise anonymity on the gift of gametes is to recognize that beside the social filiation that you are going to establish, there is a biological filiation that cannot be reduced.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u27	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u28	You turned the pater familias into a material. Unfortunately, I am afraid that nature is no longer reticent to this construction of the legislator that he does not want to recognize. That is why I am opposed to the removal of anonymity and in favour of the amendment, which would allow you to resolve your contradiction. The lifting of anonymity may upset the gift of gametes for all couples, not only for homosexual couples – because you will not be able to discriminate according to the nature of the couples. It will result in a decrease in the number of people willing to give their gametes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u29	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u30	Let me clarify at the beginning of this sitting: for the time being, we are discussing the question of origins, not that of filiation; We will discuss the latter later, and you will have plenty of time to discuss it. Mr President Mélenchon, if you admit that filiation is not strictly biological – we will see later if it is a little, not at all, much, passionately or madly! –, the question of origins should not be a problem for you. When you say, moreover, that we are creating a new filiation, this is not entirely true.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u31	Of course it's a new sonship!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u32	The new element is that there will be a homoparental filiation, but the filiation that you have described as "declarative", in the sense that it is the result of an act of will, already exists for heterosexuals, since 1994, within the framework of the AGP. I refer you, on this point, to Article 311-20 of the Civil Code. Consent to the LDC before a notary makes this filiation indisputable and, therefore, stronger than the so-called "organic" filiation. It cannot be destroyed unless it is shown that the consent was deprived of effect before insemination or that the child is not from the AGP, but from a third-party relationship. This voluntary, decision-making filiation, resulting from the engagement of a man and a woman in an AMP process, is the strongest in the civil code. There is therefore no doubt: the parents are those who have consented to the AGP and have received the gametes provided by the donor, and he will never be recognized as a parent. There is no risk in this regard. The guarantees expressly provided by the legislator in 1994 will continue to apply tomorrow, including for same-parent couples. You say that the gift of gametes is the same as a donation of blood. There is certainly a similarity in their altruistic character, but there is a huge difference, which you cannot deny, Mr Mélenchon: in the case of the AGP, a third person comes from the gift. However, this third person is not a recipient; She's self-governing and she didn't ask for anything. Second point on which we must avoid confusion: the former donors. I've already told you, never will we force them. As for future donors, they will have the option of giving or not, under the conditions laid down by law. Whether under the previous regime or under the future regime, donors will always have a choice. So why don't we give this choice also to children with ADI? In the Argentine case, you said, some wanted to know and others didn't want to. But we are not going to force children from an ADI to know their origins! This is a simple faculty that is offered to them and is likely not to be used by all children who have reached the age of majority. The idea of sending a letter to each of them, discussed in committee, was swept away. It's out of the question! Some lobbies have asked for such a letter to be systematic and mandatory, but we have refused and will stand firm on this position. We are not going to require parents to reveal their child's design. We will also not impose on children from an ADI to receive, by their majority, their entire identity narrative if that is not their choice. We rely on the choice of people. We deeply respect the differences, both among donors and among children born to an ADI, and that is why we offer them the ability to access their origins. If we open this possibility, it is also because there is a responsibility of the state – that is the question we must ask ourselves when we look at a text on bioethics, as the minister has pointed out on other issues. Indeed, the State is responsible for the fact that these children are from an LDC, since it is the latter who authorizes and organizes them. Therefore, our responsibility is also to provide them with answers. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] Because we assume our responsibilities, respecting each other, without confusion with biology, sociology or the notion of parenthood, we offer the possibility to those who wish and for whom it would be important, without forcing those who do not want to, to access the account of their genetic origins. This is a great step forward, which we can, I think, be very proud of.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u33	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u34	Since the rapporteur spoke again, I too would like to answer her and tell her why I do not agree with her. I don't know if the decision to lift anonymity will be made, but as far as I'm concerned, I wouldn't be proud. When the question of giving birth under X was asked, a socialist government, of which I was a member, was in power, and we had this discussion. Ms Ségolène Royal proposed the possibility of accessing what she called "origins," and I was already against it. The socialists were themselves divided on the subject, as we are this evening, and the positions of both had nothing to do with political labels.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u35	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u36	For my part, I found it monstrous and barbaric that one could ask, twenty or thirty years later, a woman who had the courage to bear a child and to give birth to him under X if she confirmed that she had abandoned him! My argument was that men were not asked this type of question, because they still had to be found. In his brutality, in his nakedness, this argument emphasized the absurdity of the idea that there is a truth of biological filiation. You are asking me, Madam rapporteur, what can I do that, for others, there is a truth of biological filiation. This matters to me for the reason you yourself mentioned: we are collectively responsible for the legal, moral and psychological situations that we create with our decisions. This type of filiation is the result of the Napoleonic Code, the Civil Code, and extensive discussions had already taken place before on what should be the union of a man and a woman. When the Church introduced the idea that it was a sacrament that could not be defeated, progress resulted, since the right to repudiation was cancelled. Yes, colleagues, I am talking about progress made by the Church! The impossibility of repudiation, because marriage was a sacrament to be answered before God, constituted a progress of law. And no matter why this progress has taken place. Anyone who thinks here that the existence of God is not absolutely proven can say that, after all, with such a change, one was merely subscribing to a social convention. But I am not saying anything else today: our debate is about a social convention, and I propose that we assume our responsibility; Let us assume that we have created a new sonship. Mr Aubert, who is against this new filiation, opposed me, very logically, that we were going from one difficulty to the other. That's right, but it's life! Difficulties are solved!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u37	Or not!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u38	In ten or twenty years, this debate will appear as incongruous as it was, thirty or forty years ago, the debate on the fate of children from divorced families. They were then afraid of a real catastrophe and of the impossibility of any development; They were considered poor, unhappy little ones. Today, none of us think that way anymore. We all know that their situation depends on family relations, on the love given to them and on many other things. In any case, none of us will say that, by essence, divorce is destructive to the child. As time has passed, it is even considered that there is increased freedom for children from recomposed families. Some people think their situation is even better, because they have a margin of assessment of their relationship to adults, which makes them more autonomous and stronger. We could never have said that 30 years ago: many would have been the protests, we would have talked about "palliative"... We know today that things are a little more complicated than we were then. I therefore believe that we must assume our responsibility. We have created a new filiation, it must be flawless; I don't want a character suddenly popping up. And the fact that we're asking is not a reason enough. Suppose, for example, that everyone here be taken from a doubt, shaken by my words, and said, "Melenchon keeps saying that paternity is a presumption. Heaven, what do I know about mine? » And everyone wants to check if his father is his father.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u39	We're gonna have some surprises!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u40	It's gonna be complicated!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u41	That would be monstrous! Paternity is declarative, a point that's all. [[Smile]] In this case, it's the same: there are two moms, and they're the parents. This is what we call parenthood, in this new filiation that we create. Can anyone else come up in the middle? The answer is no. Why? Because.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u42	That's not bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u43	Yes, because the company has decided, as with everything else, colleagues! Indeed, society has no other instrument than us to decide; We represent her. We can, of course, deceive ourselves and make bad decisions, but we do. We must put an end to this idea of rights with varying geometry on these subjects which affect as much the identity and social relations of parenthood. Here, a small window to smuggle a father; There, another small window to smuggle a mother... what is this story? Between one situation and another, you have to choose. The worst thing is to put people in darkness and grayness. You have not answered my argument, colleagues. Suppose that the question be asked to a breeder, or to a breeder, who would have donated his gametes as, in his will, gift of his heart, liver, kidney or spleen after his death; assume that he or she refuses to answer and testify to his or her interest. What then would be the right of the person who asked the question? It is not true that freedom is created that allows for further development. I do not take away from you the rationality of your position, which is one position like another, but admit that it does not impose itself more forcefully than the one I support, namely the preeminence of the law and the common decision on what the relations of filiation are. Our colleagues are consistent: they are opposed to the bill; They vote against anything that can lead to the invention of a new filiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u44	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u45	We feel understood!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u46	But I am speaking to you, colleagues of the La République group, because I know your intentions: you want to create a new filiation, but you are being taken back by those who reintroduce biological truth through the window when you have just chased it out the door!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u47	It's the "at the same time"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u48	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] You are faced with a real contradiction, but it is neither serious nor surprising, because these subjects are not simple.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u49	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u50	Mr Mélenchon, you have committed two confusions, which I must rise to. Firstly, as the rapporteur said, there is a difference between organ, tissue or cell donation and gamete donation. In the latter case, a third person is involved, namely the child born to the LDC, who is neither a recipient nor a donor. It exists on its own, and we offer it a right, which it will not be obliged to activate. The second confusion, which you have made several times – that's why I get up – is to assimilate the gamete donor to a father. In no way is a gamete donor a father, in no way!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u51	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u52	You talked about the donor, biological father, biological filiation, etc. No, a gamete donor is a gamete donor. It is in the civil code, it will be in the public health code; It does not open any rights or duties. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Matthieu Orphelin also applauds]] My contribution will be limited to these clarifications.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u53	As soon as we can find him, he becomes a father!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u54	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u55	I don't have the certainty of Jean-Luc Mélenchon, but I have a few fears about what we're doing. Through a movement that seems logical and well-founded, we are about to give children the right to return to their origins, but this right will be exercised eighteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty years after the gift. We do not know what will happen in the next twenty or thirty years. The young person who will ask to exercise this right will be confronted with a biological father who has lived thirty years more, who will no longer have the life that was his at the time of the gift, who will no longer be the one who gave his gametes thirty years earlier. This could create situations, so to speak, unreal. I can hear you, Madam Minister, when you say that the donor is just a gamete donor, but when you discover his real identity, it is not a gamete that you will have before you, but an individual!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u56	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u57	And this individual, I repeat, will have lived twenty or thirty years after his gift and before his identity is revealed. This will make personal interactions inevitable: we will project ourselves; we'll have the feeling that the other one has succeeded in his life, or missed it; We'll compare the life we've had with our social family to the life we could have had with the donor. [[Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde and Mr Guy Bricout applaud]] All this has not yet been studied; We open a right without really measuring the consequences. I am not sure that the situations we are going to bring young people to live are beneficial for their development.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u59	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u60	A gamete donor is not a father, says the minister. It is a statement, with which one can agree or disagree; This is the subject of debate. It all depends on how everyone sees things.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u61	No, there's no debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u62	You think that there is no bodily aspect in filiation; We think that there is one, even if the filiation is not reduced to this pillar,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u63	It's still the first!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u64	... since we must add the emotional pillar and the social pillar to which our colleague Mélenchon referred.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u65	We're not in the 19th century anymore...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u66	And it's not because you say that that that's true. In the search for the identity of a breeder, there is a part of the search for paternity. The law may or may not call this genitor a father, but one cannot sweep this dimension with a back of hand by saying: "Circulate, there is nothing to see, there is no debate! » [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] It was my intention to express myself only at the beginning of the article's examination, to express my opposition to the disclosure of the identifying data because of my conception of filiation. With the amendment tabled by our colleague Dharréville – and the debates that he has raised – I find this idea again, despite our differences of opinion: we always return to the body, we are always caught up in the realities of the body, and that, Madam Minister, you cannot, I repeat, sweep it away.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u67	Amendment No 2245 by Mrs Annie Genevard is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u68	I have before me six identical amendments, Nos 77, 148, 404, 769, 1115 and 1200. Amendment No 77 by Mr Xavier Breton is being defended. I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 148.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u69	It is intended to delete the words "or of a woman" and "or another woman" in paragraph 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u70	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 404.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u71	Because of the scheduled legislative time, I will only say "defended".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u72	Identical Amendments Nos 769 by Mr Marc Le Fur, 1115 by Mrs Véronique Louwagie and 1200 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u73	Their purpose is to exclude from the definition of third-party donors women who would give an embryo, but also, by ricochet, to exclude women alone from access to the LDC. In view of the long debate we have had on Rule 1, for which Jean-Louis Touraine was rapporteur, you will not be surprised that the opinion of the committee is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u74	Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor to support Amendment No. 2548.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u75	Here we find the tension, which I mentioned in my speech on the article, between social filiation and the claim of the right of origin. I also wonder about this last term, because the origins are irreducible to biology, so that perhaps the choice of the word would have to be reconsidered: should we not instead talk about "biological origins" or "genetic entity" in order to clarify what is involved? In any case, this shows that the two dimensions we are talking about are not as easy as that to distinguish. The question about this is transparant – to an unusual degree! It has been said that this is not a waiver of anonymity, since it concerns both the donor and the recipient. However, when a young person, having reached the age of majority, has the right to access the identity of the donor, what guarantees us that he will not reveal it to his parents or that he will not broadcast it on social networks? By this amendment, we therefore propose, as recommended by the Council of State, to amend Article 3 so that it is at the time of the young person's request, and not at the time of the donation, whether or not the third-party donor gives his or her consent to the disclosure of his or her identity. As Mr. Fuchs pointed out, in twenty years there is much going on in people's lives. It is not the same thing to make a gift at twenty or twenty-five years of age and to learn that the person born of the gift wishes to gain access to your nominal identity. We therefore propose to preserve the possibility of access to non-identifiable data, which allows us to satisfy the need to know how the donor was, what its physiognomy was, or even what its intellectual skills were, etc. Nominal identity is something else: it is no longer about biology, but about interpersonal relationships. Although we have been told and repeated, including the minister, that the stock of gametes is now sufficient to meet the demands, that additional campaigns will be organized and that the possibility of access to the donor's identity could even encourage new populations to make a donation, and although foreign countries are cited as an example, I would like to see it more closely. The number of donations has certainly increased with the campaigns that were organized in those countries when access to their origins was made possible, but where do these donations come from? Private banks, new ways of abunding gamete stock. We must be very vigilant in this regard. The United Kingdom, in particular, is often cited; The representatives of the CECOS – centres for the study and conservation of human eggs and semen – have produced curves showing that it is the private banks that make it possible to have a sufficient stock of gametes. Two other points, which I have already addressed, are the donor's right to privacy and the need for informed consent – hence our hope that it will take place at the time the child from whom the donation is made makes his or her request. If the non-identifiable data must enable the young person concerned to have the information he needs, the disclosure of the nominal identity should be subject to the consent of the donor at the time the young person requests it – knowing that the access commission can work in this direction with the donors when this proves to be important for the young person or even indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u76	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u77	We had this debate at the hearings and at the time of the examination of the text in committee. You are talking, my dear colleague, about the right to privacy of the donor, but there is also a right to identity for children with ADI. These issues have already been discussed at length before the Court of Cassation, the Constitutional Council and the European Court of Human Rights. The Constitutional Council and the European Court of Human Rights have brought their decisions together. The Constitutional Council, first of all uncertain as to how to decide the issue, took a first step on the subject of incommunicado deliveries – which was discussed earlier –, dedicating the idea that it was of vital interest for a child to have access to the account of his or her origins. Then the European Court of Human Rights, seized of the matter, affirmed that the right to privacy is a fundamental right, but not an absolute right: it is a relative right, which can be reconciled with other interests. However, in the conflict between the interests of the donor and those of the child, it is exactly the same right to privacy, which is the subject of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is at stake for each of the parties. There is therefore a balance to be struck between the two. It is precisely to this balance that the text achieves, distinguishing two situations. On the one hand, in the future, donors will agree from the outset, when they come to give, to allow access to non-identifying and identifying information; Therefore, there will be no infringement of their privacy, since they will have chosen, being free not to give if they do not accept these provisions. On the other hand, there are previous situations. In this respect, and since different regimes coexisted, one prior to 1994, the other later, there will be no systematic reminder or automatic access to information – the minister pointed out and the text makes it very clear. On the other hand, donors will be able to show up voluntarily, in which case it can be reasonably assumed that there will also be no infringement of respect for their private and family life. We could also consider – and we will come back to it again – that the question should be asked in some cases, always without prejudice to this principle, which will remain our red line. There is therefore no risk of a breach of privacy with this text, which strikes an excellent balance between the issues at hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u78	We don't agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u79	Other options were on the table. Thus, we could have foreseen the automaticity of access to the origins or made the choice of sending a mail to all interested parties, but this was not retained. We could also have opted for double consent, which you are proposing little or no by your amendment, since a first consent at the time of the donation should be followed by a second consent at the time of the application of the child who has reached the age of majority. But let us be realistic: we would take the risk of creating an inequity between children, moreover organized by the State, which would not be acceptable. In my view, the Government is presenting us with a good solution, and the work in committee has made some very satisfactory progress. I think that's the end of it. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u80	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u81	In addition to what the rapporteur has said, and in order to reassure all those who are concerned in this House, I would like to convey to you my feeling that many of the children who will thus be offered access to their origins will not ask for it. I doubt that many of them will look beyond their parents as you define them, Mr. Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u82	No one can know!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u83	Today, one of the frustrations of children born of a gift is that they do not have the opportunity to do so. It is the very prohibition of access to what is, for them, of the most intimate that provokes this demand. My second conviction is that the future access commission will play a role of intermediation: it will make contact with the donor, inform him that the child is seeking his origins; She will accompany the child in his or her approach, including with psychologists, to find out what he or she is really looking for. This will prevent things from taking a rough turn: it will not be a matter of suddenly transmitting the donor's phone number. I would remind you, moreover, that he will never be obliged to meet the child physically. Finally, I would point out that the first requests will take place in twenty years... Many things will have happened by then, and it may be that what we are considering today is no longer appropriate. I therefore invite you, Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe, to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u84	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u85	Unfortunately, Madam Minister, I am not reassured, even for twenty years! Basically, Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe's amendment, which I shall vote for, takes into account the normal evolution of everyone's life. I can of course imagine that children born in these conditions – I have met them – feel the need to know their origins. And opening them "the possibility", in your own words, that is, in reality, giving them the right to do so, is a good thing. However, the imposition of this right on future donors fails to take certain elements into consideration. First, a twenty- or thirty-year-old donor does not necessarily measure what he will impose on himself a generation later, and whatever the motivation of his gift – generosity, convictions or other reason. Everyone here, who is no longer twenty years old, most of us for quite a long time, know that life has changed us, transformed us, tried by marriages,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u86	[[Smile]] By weddings?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u87	...divorces, separations or deaths. And our conception of transmission at the age of fifty or sixty, or even more, is not necessarily the same as we were at the age of twenty or thirty. I therefore find the amendment to be common sense: it is a question of opening up the right to return to its origins, provided that the donor is always in a position to "receive" what his gift has given. You say, Madam Minister, that not all children born to LDCs will probably ask for access to their origins and that the donor will never be forced to face-to-face, but how can you guarantee it? Nothing in the text assures that. In today's world, with Facebook and other social networks, the communication of a person's identity makes it possible to already know a lot about him – what he does as a profession, where he lives, what his leisure is. Suppose a young person decides to make a donation without ever having imagined what his or her family would be, or the possible disruptions in his or her family life, sexual life or sexual orientation. Suppose he was elected as a member twenty years later. He would then be forced...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u88	Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u89	... to assume the consequences of the fact that a person born of his or her gift has regained his or her identity. Everyone today, let him be a member of parliament...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u90	[[Smile]] Son of a congressman, it would still be a disaster!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u91	...journalist, entrepreneur or much more anonymous citizen, can be identified and found. And I don't see what's funny about it, my dear colleague, because this article, in its current wording, preempts the future of someone who has decided, at some point in his life, to be generous, but who may very well then no longer be in a position to bear the consequences of his gift. Secondly, is it certain that this confrontation, which may not be desired by the donor but cannot be avoided if the child so wishes, will go well? Are we sure she'll do good, on the one hand to the child, and on the other hand to the donor? I think we're unwise. The rapporteur referred to the perfect balance of Article 3, but a truly balanced provision would require both to be consenting. It would be better for the psychological balance of the child born of the gift as for that of the person who gave. I don't understand why you don't accept that balance. It is questionable if the donor's consent is sought a priori, but why not. On the other hand, it seems obvious to me that it is necessary to ask for confirmation of the initial consent, depending on what the donor has become. It would be respectful of both parties, including the adult child who wants to return to his or her origins and may have a bad surprise if the donor says, "You are absolutely nothing to me. This amendment would restore balance by asking the donor, before he or she eventually finds himself or herself in front of the child born of his or her gift, to confirm that he or she is always ready to meet. Otherwise, minister, find a mechanism to prevent an unwanted meeting. For such an encounter can be terribly destructive, for both, even if neither of them would like it. However, the mechanism that we are about to create will not avoid this. You assume that, within twenty years, a lot will have happened. Of course, several legislatures have had the opportunity to change the law, but that is no reason not to worry about the potentially serious consequences of this text. Madam rapporteur, you say that those who have made a donation prior to the application of this text will have the option of giving their consent. This ability to become an obligation for the following donors, either the number of donations will decrease – let us assume the consequences – or the donors will be exposed to the risk that I mentioned. In any case, why provide protection to donors of yesterday and today, asking them for their agreement twenty or thirty years later, and refusing the same protection to donors of tomorrow? Why wouldn't they, too, have the right to say "yes, I agree to reveal my identity" or "no, I don't agree anymore, because my life has changed"?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u92	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u93	I will support an amendment, No 2001, which is very similar to it. I am in line with the arguments just put forward by Mr Lagarde. I would like to place myself from the child's point of view. This article opens up new rights to the donor, but the Council of State has suggested that the donor should provide for double consent, so that the donor may possibly withdraw at the time the request is made, not earlier than 18 years after the donation. I think it would be a wise measure, especially for the benefit of the child, because the child could be confronted with a donor whose existence has changed at all. One can imagine, for example, that the donor has radicalized, that he is serving a prison sentence for murder, or that he has been severely disabled. You say, Madam Minister, that a gamete donor is just a gamete donor, but he is much more than that in the event that we are talking about. If he is only considered a gamete donor, then let's keep reporting the non-identifiable information. If we want to give children the right to know their origins, let's do so – I am in favour of it – but let's keep a safe airlock at the moment when the request comes, so as not to make a jump into the unknown, knowing that some situations can be embarrassing for the donor and others even more traumatic for the child, even destructive, while we seek his well-being. Let us avoid such confrontations between the young and the donor. You recalled, Madam rapporteur, that there was no need to create different rights for citizens. If we follow this logic, we should create a new right: to allow every Frenchman to know his origins. We know that our origin isn't always the one we think we're from.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u95	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u96	I support this amendment for several reasons. First of all, it would resolve the contradiction between the right that one intends to open and the fact that a gamete donor is not a father. As you said and repeated, Madam Minister, there is no provision in the text on this point. Therefore, the search for origins must necessarily take on another dimension. Secondly, we find it difficult to imagine what communication technologies will be in twenty years' time. Let us remember that twenty years ago, when you were typing a name on the nascent internet, it took a lot of time to go back to a natural person, to his life, to his entourage, to his place of residence, etc. But the evolution has been very fast, and we know that it will not stop. In twenty years, a young person who has been given a name will immediately have access to a great deal of information. Under these conditions, the search for origins can have multiple consequences. You can imagine everything, for example a young person who suffers from a pathology and hopes to benefit from an organ donation from a brother or sister. He will then hit the life of someone who has absolutely nothing to do with what was decided twenty years ago, perhaps not yet born himself at that time. As for the donor parent, he could not of course imagine that such consequences were likely to occur at any given time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u97	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u98	This common sense amendment must, of course, be adopted, both by those who support the right of access to the origins and by those who oppose it. You have used, Madam Minister, two arguments that do not seem to me to be in line with reality. You first indicated that there would likely be few additional requests for access to origins. This could be true within the current framework of access to the LDC, open to heterosexual couples. On the other hand, as you extend the LDC to single women or women's couples, biological likelihood flies away, and the child – knowing full well that it was not born to a single mother or two mothers – will necessarily be tempted, because its psychological and social construction depends on it, to know its origin. He will not necessarily go so far as to want to meet his breeder – or the gamete donor – but he will be tempted to look for something. We can see it with the adopted children: many of them – and Joachim Son-Forget, who asked for the floor, will be able to speak better on this subject than I do – are looking for where they come from in order to be able to build themselves in society. You also stated that, 20 years later, the donor's situation will be of little importance. Now, as many have pointed out, a donor of twenty or twenty-five years of age does not know what his life will be, nor what the consequences of this gift will be. Above all – considering the opposite of the negative situation of a donor who would be incarcerated – if a donor has in the meantime become a professional footballer receiving very high incomes, a celebrity of French or international cinema or television,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u99	Or a Macron minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u100	... you obviously imagine that there might be – not only in the child, but also in his surroundings – an interest other than moral to know, and above all to meet, this donor. Today, the text does not include any guarantees to prevent this. It thus potentially opens the door to many disputes relating to this ability to give. This remark brings us back to the argument that, once the right to the origin is unimpeded, the donors will think twice about it before carrying out this act of generosity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u101	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u102	As you will know, I am rather in favour of full transparency in access to origins. One may wonder about the need for a second consent, but, as far as the technological aspect is concerned, I will tell you that, in any case, there will be many ways to identify its breeder – Jean-Christophe Lagarde referred to social networks, but many other means will be available. Genetic means already exist – start-ups will be on their teeth to gain access to this market – and it will be possible to obtain this information through other hijacked channels. I therefore do not know whether I am in favour or against this amendment, because I believe that other solutions – and perhaps other situations, as you say, Madam Minister, will exist within the next twenty years. Will this transparency limit donations? Probably. It seems to me desirable to put donors in front of their responsibilities. While the gift can be seen as an altruistic approach, it is not prohibited to conceive of it as an act based on a less sound basis. I have already said that human reproduction sometimes involves particular unconscious motivations. It has been seen in extreme cases such as that of Mr. Epstein, or in cases, widely known to the general public, of doctors making their seed available to many women. [[Smile]] On the other hand, paralleling intercountry adoption, you say that many of these children will not seek their origins. It's possible, especially if they grew up in a family where everything goes well. However, steps will be taken. In the case of intercountry adoption, for example, Korea – where I was born – has several hundred thousand adopted children all over the world. What's going on there? Young people come back and try to find a part of their culture, without being able to regain their marks, even when they return to the country. Feeling a blockage, they try various things: they publish advertisements in newspapers, call on associations... And then there were those many reality TV shows. Do you remember the show "Loss of sight"? Such emissions exist. I bet you that, in twenty years' time, French reality TV shows – on channel C8 or its equivalent – will propose, through the voice of the future Mr. Hanouna, to people to find their geniteur. A market will develop around this theme. I'll give you my ticket that it will happen! Finally, there will indeed be a dissymmetry. I know many stories of children looking for their parents, having sometimes found them and having been disappointed. There are, on the other hand, stories of children who have not asked for anything but whose parents have come to look for them and say they have regrets and want to know them. As by chance, these reunions were more and more interesting to them when the child had become an important person – the reciprocal is indeed true. These situations already exist – perhaps not in the case of the LDC on a large scale, but in the context of intercountry adoption. Why is there so little evidence of children from LDCs or adoption and ensuring that everything is well and that they do not encounter any problems? According to rapporteur Touraine, who quoted Mrs Dolto, these children do not complain more than the others. However, they have not been given much confirmation that the rapporteur is right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u103	I have before me three amendments, Nos 1646, 1722 and 1859, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendments Nos 1646 by Mrs Agnes Thill and 1722 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u104	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u105	It is based on Rule 49(7) of our Rules of Procedure. With several non-attached Members, yesterday we wrote to the Conference of Presidents complaining about the lack of consideration and the short time that has been given to us in the context of the scheduled legislative time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u106	Oh...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u107	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u108	Article 49(7) provides, as part of the scheduled legislative time, that "the Conference [of Presidents] shall fix... the speaking time reserved for non-attached Members, who shall have an overall time at least proportional to their number". For the record, the Communist Group, made up of sixteen Members, obtained four hours and twenty-five of speaking time. The Group of the European People's Party has seventeen Members for four hours and twenty-five speaking time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u109	You had to choose a good group!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u110	[[Applause on some of the banks of the LR Group. – Mrs AgnesThillapplauditedalso]] The non-attached members, for fourteen Members, have only one hour's speaking time. I ask the House: is that right? Is it democratic?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u111	This will be mentioned at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u112	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1859.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u113	I would like to defend this amendment by explaining it, because it is struck by common sense. It is designed to provide access to non-identifiable information for minors under 16 years of age who have been conceived by means of reproductive medical assistance with third-party donors. From the age of sixteen, the minor is able to make choices alone, particularly with regard to his or her health: choice of means of contraception, possibility of resorting to a voluntary or medical interruption of pregnancy, autonomy to make appointments with practitioners, etc. In order to make an informed choice, it appears unfair that a minor aged 16 or over cannot have access to the same information as the doctor he or she consults. Therefore, the purpose of this amendment is to ensure that it has access to the non-identifiable data of the third-party donor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u114	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u115	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You will forgive me, Mrs.Provendier: before I answer you, I would like to remind everyone, in view of the comments made earlier, that children of today's age from IAD are watching us – that is a certainty. When you touch on topics that concern them, they listen to you. So, collectively, when we talk about the donor and the responsibility to the donor, let us not be degrading to the children of these gifts. As regards your amendment – which concerns these children – we have indeed asked ourselves the question, both in the hearing and in the committee. I admit that I have been in expectation, especially with regard to medical information, for which the age of access seems to be open to discussion. However, non-identifiable data is not limited to medical data – we discussed it at length with the other rapporteurs at the beginning of the Article 3 review – but also encompassing the motivation of the donation, certain physical characteristics, etc., access from sixteen years old seems less appropriate. As far as medical information is concerned, the Commission has amended the Public Health Code to allow any doctor to apply for access to the data if it appears necessary. The progress achieved in committee therefore seems to satisfy the objective pursued by your amendment. I am therefore very kind in issuing a request for withdrawal or, failing that, an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u116	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u117	We have all considered this possibility. It seems to us that the age of eighteen years offers the necessary maturity. A 16-year-old emancipated by a judge will also be able to obtain this information in the same way. Considering that, from the age of sixteen, the data access commission could be seized would create significant complexities. This commission will include magistrates and psychologists, and the child will have to be accompanied by his or her parents. Such a provision would, all of a sudden, be tantamount to crossing a course which seems to us to make access to origins more complex than to simplify it. Nothing will prevent parents from revealing their child's birth from a gift much earlier, and thus allowing him to consider requesting access to this information at the age of 18. But opening this right earlier would force the child to be accompanied by his or her parents throughout the process, and the child would risk being pressured – if the parents themselves, not the child, asked for this information. Let us give children the opportunity to make this choice when they have real autonomy, that is to say, at eighteen years of age – the legal age – rather than putting them in this situation at a time when their parents' place may not be the same as later, when they wish to do this alone. Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u118	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u119	I thank you for these explanations and ask only to believe them. However, since a 16-year-old has certain abilities, particularly with regard to medical procedures – I have understood the principle of shared medical records, even if I do not know all the finesses, being perfectly beotan on these subjects – as long as he can, at that age, own his own vital card and access certain elements, there is something disturbing to say that the doctor could have access to information from which the minor from a donation would be excluded. That is why I cannot withdraw this amendment. I hope that, as is the practice today in other countries – in Germany, Norway or elsewhere – children from LDCs by third-party donors will be able to quickly access this type of information from the age of sixteen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u120	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 1201.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u121	Defended, because of the scheduled speaking time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u122	I call Mr Bruno Fuchs to support Amendment No. 2001.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u123	This amendment was tabled earlier and, at the time it is put to the vote, I ask for a last time that we legislate wisely and cautiously because if there is much to bet that, eighteen or twenty-five years after giving its consent, the donor will confirm it, it may happen that, in a small number of cases of which the nature is not yet known, he does not do so. It is therefore prudent and wise to give us a safety valve to avoid too violent a confrontation between a young person and the donor from whom he will be born. I therefore ask you to vote for this amendment in wisdom and responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u124	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u125	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u126	Mr President, you are calling for wisdom and responsibility. I will do the same, but when I speak to the donor, at the moment when he makes the gift – that is, all in all, what the law says. Tomorrow, when you are a donor, bear in mind that you are doing this an altruistic and responsible act: perhaps the person who comes from your gift will need answers to certain questions in the aftermath of his life. This is not a subsidiary relationship, but questions about its genetic heritage, to which you will answer by leaving non-identifying and, possibly, identifying data – it is, moreover, by no means certain that everyone has recourse to the identifying data. I therefore fully accept your call for responsibility, but I apply it to the donor who, in his altruistic gesture, is also responsible. As before, therefore, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u127	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u128	Mr Fuchs, your amendment would, in a way, lead to the removal of access to the origins, in any case access to the identifying data. In fact, not only would it have the effect that, potentially, some children from the same donor regime would not have the same rights, but it could above all lead to a situation in which all donors who gave their consent at the time of the donation would deny children born of the gift and who became adults, twenty-five or thirty years later, access to their origins. Your amendment would therefore have the effect of removing in law access to identifying data. I am embarrassed by this idea, because it is precisely not the approach that we have chosen, and it would render the adopted system obsolete. So I'm unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u129	Amendments Nos 845 and 846 are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u130	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1758.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u131	This amendment by the Socialist and Related Group aims to ensure that potential donors who are rejected by the prospect of anonymity being removed will not allow access to their identity to any research aimed at establishing a link of filiation. It is also intended to reassure those who have expressed many reservations during the lengthy discussions we have had on the subject, both in the sitting and in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u132	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u133	I understand your objective, which is not to establish a principle that already exists in the civil code, but simply to remind it and to allow good information to be given to each potential donor, by reassuring it, in particular, the consequences of its donation. I do not think, however, that it should be included in the law. On the other hand, and no doubt the Minister will be able to reply on this point, it seems to me absolutely essential that, in the context of the review of good practice, this information be well provided in the guides to be distributed in the CECOS, where the donations will be collected. I would like to thank these centres for the work they have done over the past 40 years in the field of DIA, while stressing that there is still room for improvement in respect of good practice, in particular with regard to communication with donors, parents and possibly later with children. I therefore ask that this amendment be withdrawn. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u134	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u135	The prohibition to establish a parentage between the donor and the child is already doubly prohibited in the Civil Code – by Article 311-19, cited by the amendment, and by Article 311-20, which prohibits any action for the purpose of establishing or contesting filiation, unless it proves that the child was not born from the AGP. These provisions are fully reflected in the bill. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory and I propose that you withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u136	Mrs Battistel, do you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u137	No, Mr President, because this is an amendment by Mr Saulignac.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u138	I have before me an amendment, No 2580. On this amendment, I am seized by the UDI Group, acting independently, of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u139	This amendment, like many others similar to it, tends to set certain limits. Indeed, the creation of the right to access to origins cannot and should not be the creation of a right to meet. Unfortunately, as we repeat throughout this debate, even if the donor is aware that the child from his or her donation will be able to obtain data about him or her, identifying or not, nothing in the text preserves him or her from the possibility that the child will come into contact with him or her, with consequences that may prove to be uncontrollable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u140	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u141	The measure you are proposing does not fall within the legislative scope. The text of the bill also refers to a decree in the Council of State specifying the nature of the non-identifying and identifying data. On the other hand, I repeat what we have already said in committee: we are creating a right of access to information, not a right to a relationship. There is a real difference here. If your concerns concern, for example, the use of social networks, it seems to me that these issues are covered by other texts. By the way, I hope that as we voted in favour of the law on the protection of personal data, which adapted the general regulation on data protection to French law. The Data Access Commission is not intended to organise meetings, but only to provide information, the details of which will be specified by decree in the Council of State. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u142	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u143	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u144	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2580.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u145	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 103 Number of votes cast 101 Absolute majority 51 For adoption 19 Against 82
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u146	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 79, 406, 772 and 1116. Amendment No 79 by Mr Xavier Breton is being defended. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 406.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u147	To give an adult child conceived by AMP the opportunity to access the data and identity of the third-party donor, as referred to in paragraph 10, is to deny the principle of anonymity of the gift, which is today the guarantee of a social balance by allowing the child to represent himself as the child of those whom the law recognizes as his father and mother. It was suggested that the donor's consent should be given to the GPA child, but this solution was rejected, as it would create two categories by distinguishing between those who would have access to their origins and those who would not have access to them. However, the article we are looking at raises the same problem: children born to AMPs before the application of this law would be unable to have access to their origins, unlike those who would be born later. There would be two different treatments depending on the legal regime under which one was born. In order to avoid this, the amendment therefore seeks to delete paragraph 10 of Article 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u148	Amendment No 772 by Mr Le Fur was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u149	Amendment No 1116 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u150	That's pretty clever! These amendments propose a new way to delete, if not the entire article, at least the principle underlying it, and to go back to a reform which is intended to allow children born to IADs to have access to data, in particular non-identifiable data, on the donor. You therefore suspect that the opinion of the committee will be unfavourable. Under the pretext that there was a different regime in the past, it could not be abandoned to advance the law. If that were the case, this House would have no reason to be and we could go home, considering that everything that exists must remain as it is and that we cannot change the order of things.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u151	Not on this subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u152	We assume that we are making societal progress in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u153	This is not progress!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u154	Let's go to the end and vote with us. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u155	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u156	This point of order refers to Article 49(7) on scheduled time. As we pointed out in a letter to the Conference of Presidents, the speaking time reserved for non-attached Members must be at least proportional to their number. I would point out that the Communist Group has more than four hours for 15 Members and the La France Group has more than four hours for 16 Members, while the non-attached Members have only one hour for 15 Members. Twenty-nine articles remain to be considered. Since Friday, we've been figuring. Is this your vision of democracy? Is this how we carry the voice of the French in this place.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u157	We mustn't be excluded!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u158	These elements will be communicated to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u159	Amendment No 1468 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u160	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 1748 and 2301. Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor to support Amendment No. 1748.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u161	This amendment is intended to bring the wording of paragraph 10 into line with the definition of the third-party donor given above in the text. In the special committee, we had an exchange on this subject with the rapporteur: paragraph 7 provides that the concept of third-party donors is defined as "the person whose gametes have been collected" as well as the couple or the woman "who consented to the reception of one or more of his embryos by another couple or another woman". However, the ability to make the donation is conditional on consenting to the disclosure of its non-identifiable data and identity. It follows that a person who has not yet given such consent cannot be considered as a third party donor. To put it more clearly, the approach of the gift of gamete or embryo requires that each of its stages be considered in chronological order: the person presents himself, manifests his intention to give; it is requested to consent to the disclosure of its non-identifiable data and identity; Then she gives. It is only at that time, in my opinion, that it becomes a third-party donor under the definition in paragraph 7, which is, in short, consistent with the principle that every person from an MPA has the right to have access to his or her origins. For this reason, I propose to replace the term "third party donor" with "person wishing to donate a gamete or embryo".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u162	Mrs Coralie Dubost, rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2301.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u163	I would like to thank Mr Mbaye and to acknowledge his concern for legal precision. The definition he presented in committee, which we redrafted for the sitting, is a real step forward. This makes it possible to clarify situations and our right. I therefore call on the authors of the following drafting amendments, which go in the same direction, to withdraw them for the benefit of those whose drafting is more appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u164	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u165	These amendments are quite sensible, they clarify things. The opinion is therefore very favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u166	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u167	There is still an editorial problem. When it comes to a couple, one cannot speak only of "the person". The "person or persons" should be indicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u168	That's why Mr Le Fur's amendment is better!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u169	We haven't mentioned my own contribution yet... The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u170	We propose that the amendments be corrected by replacing, in the fourth paragraph, the words "person" with the words "persons".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u171	We'll send you the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u172	My amendment therefore falls too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u173	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u174	Amendment No 1716 by Mr Christophe Naegelen is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u175	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 409 and 953. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 409.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u176	Because of the time schedule, the amendment is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u177	Amendment No 953 is also being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u178	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u179	Can we know why?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u180	What's the point? You yourself just say "defended"! Anyway, they're happy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u182	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u183	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u184	[[Marie-France Lorho, Emmanuelle Ménard and Agnes Thill applaud]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Marie-France Lorho, Emmanuelle Ménard and Agnes Thill also applaud]] The rapporteur, you know perfectly well that if we regularly limit ourselves to a simple "Defensed! In order to present our amendments, it is because we are on schedule and you have decided to muzzle the opposition! Therefore, it is unacceptable that you do not indicate the reasons for your rejection. It is a sign of contempt for the opposition that I will not tolerate. When amendments are submitted to you, the least you can do is to say why you are against them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u185	With each amendment, he speaks for five minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u186	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u187	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mr. Hetzel's anger is perfectly faked; He knew that the principle of scheduled time had been adopted at the Conference of Presidents and that no less than fifty hours had been allocated to discuss the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u188	What you're saying is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u189	We spent a week discussing the first two articles. I therefore think that you have had ample time to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u190	You know we're gonna need time for the next one!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u191	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] When you wish an amendment to be examined in detail, you will present it and I will reply. Mr President, may I speak? It screams a little loud, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u192	[[New exclamations on the banks of the LR group]] Go ahead, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u193	Mr President, would you like to hear my answer, yes or no?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u194	Mr. Hetzel, you can speak later.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u195	If you are interested in the substance, I can take the time to explain why the opinion is unfavourable. These amendments are not necessary because they are already satisfied. Was this answer really worth losing your speaking time and the Assembly in general, part of its time?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u196	That's the job!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u197	This argument is fake!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u198	Reread paragraph 10: It clearly states that consent must be express and that, if not, the gift cannot be made.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u199	It's intolerable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u200	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That means exactly the same thing as your amendment, which is therefore unnecessary and unnecessary. Therefore, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u201	We simply asked that consent be irrevocable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u202	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u203	I see no reason why Amendment No 2581, of which I am the author, should have fallen with the others following the adoption of Nos 1748 and 2301. It provides that the consent of the donor shall be renewed at the time when the child requests access to his or her origins. Once again, it is a matter of placing limits on this right of access in order to be sure that the new situation of the donor is not in contradiction with the consent he expressed twenty years earlier. [[Ian Boucard and Marie-France Lorho, Emmanuelle Ménard and Agnes Thill applaud]] On the other hand, I would remind the rapporteur that there is no vote in the Conference of Presidents on the choice of a procedure such as that relating to scheduled time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u204	My dear colleague, I confirm to you that Amendment No 2581 has fallen – unfortunately it is always painful but it is so – because the amendments adopted earlier on the initiative of Mr Mbaye and the rapporteur have changed the wording of paragraph 10. There is no debate on this. It is the trap of the new draftsmen who, even if they concern only a few things, bring down the competing amendments. [[Smile]] The trick, in this case, is to propose a sub-amendment, which gives an opportunity to debate it – I have practiced it fairly regularly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u205	It's the experience that's talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u206	But now is the time. This does not prevent you from expressing yourself on the merits since we are on schedule. Unfortunately, the amendment cannot give rise to a vote. Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u207	Mr President, I understand your argument that, from the moment paragraph 10 is amended, the other amendments relating to the same paragraph fall. But then why don't all the amendments called for in joint discussion with mine fall down?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u208	Because they complete the paragraph, they do not change it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u209	All amendments concerning newly drafted elements fall.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u210	It's the dog!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u211	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 80, 408, 717, 771, 1203 and 1647. On these amendments, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendment No 80 by Mr Xavier Breton is being defended. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 408.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u212	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Marie-France Lorho, Emmanuelle Ménard and Agnes Thill also applaud]] I would like to take this opportunity to say to the rapporteur that she has committed a personal fact by calling my anger a feint. I am, in fact, very unhappy that due to the time programmed, we do not have the opportunity to defend our amendments as we would like. The very fact of using this procedure is yet another proof of your lack of willingness to grant the opposition all its rights. The purpose of this amendment is to supplement paragraph 10 with the following wording: "The express consent of the spouse of the third-party donor, married, pacified or in cohabitation shall be obtained under the same conditions. Indeed, we believe that the gift of gamete is likely to have an impact on the lives of couples and that the greatest transparency is needed. By opposing these amendments, you would remain ambiguous.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u213	Identical amendments Nos 717 by Mr Pierre Vatin, 771 by Mr Marc Le Fur, 1203 by Mr Thibault Bazin and 1647 by Mrs Agnes Thill are defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u214	If the legislator had already chosen, several decades ago, not to submit consent to the opinion of the spouse, partner or partner of ACAP, it is precisely because this issue is not a matter of family life. We only give genes, not family life. Why call this into question today, even though we maintain the principles that donating cannot result in the establishment of a bond of filiation or interfere with family relations? As such, the opinion of the spouse, concubine or pacsé is not necessary. Only the decision responsible for the donor – man or woman – is the decision. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u215	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u216	France is the only country that asks for consent from the spouse of the gamete donor and it seems to us complicated to maintain this obligation because of fluctuations in the family life of the people. In addition to breaking up and remarriage, we must take into account the fact that a person can give when he or she is single and marry or even divorce thereafter. You know that consent is revocable: you can return to your gift at any time. And you'd have to ask for the spouse's consent every time? This seems too complicated to manage and unsuited to the reality of life. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u217	It's a little messed up! You don't seem very convinced, nor very convincing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u218	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u219	On the contrary, it seems to me that the need for the donor to communicate with his or her spouse would be a way of dedramatizing the gift, making it less secret and anchoring the notion of exchange in people's minds. Moreover, this would avoid many surprises in twenty or thirty years, when the child who seeks to meet his donor will come to his home.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u220	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u221	I am quite in favour of section 3, Madam Minister, but I would like to make it clear that this is a problem for me. You deplored a French exception; For me, it honors our country. Such an argument pushes at least so-called ethics because we can always find countries with less ethical practices. Imagine the tensions that the lifting of anonymity will cause in 18 years, when the major person from the gift will come knocking on the door, if the spouse is not informed! It is a threat to social peace and to the peace of homes, in which I include possible children of the donor. They are the ones I propose to preserve by providing for the express consent of the spouse.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u222	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u223	Besides, not all couples are meant to separate! It's not obvious. You're telling us that this is the case for one couple in two, Madam Minister. But, in the interests of society, we cannot start from the assumption that all couples will separate. This would mean a very sad future for couples who are forming today and have the hope of lasting as long as possible. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard and Mrs Agnes Thill also applaud]] Madam Minister, the rapporteur, in moving away from this real subject, you are taking the risk of further breaking up families within the next 20 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u224	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u225	I agree with Mr Bazin: I think you are taking a huge risk here, Madam Minister. You are fully aware that your bill will have consequences in about twenty years – not only for the donor, but also for his or her spouse. To ignore this dimension is to neglect a significant part of the potential impact of your bill. We therefore call for your wisdom. Again, on a subject as sensitive as this one, we plead for all the dimensions concerned to be taken into account. You have kept reminding us that a child is called to be born from the gift of gametes and that it must be cared for as much as recipients. Well, likewise, the donation has potentially consequences for the donor's spouse when he or she is in a couple. To deny it would be to disavow what you were defending, namely the importance of communicating certain biological information from the donor. There is a clear contradiction that you cannot lift and that will have a very strong impact on families in the years to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u226	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u227	I'll try to say it with less vehemence...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u228	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u229	That is the reality – I may not be able to do so, but I will try to speak with less vehemence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u230	With less talent especially!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u231	Here we are looking at a text of transparency and truth. But the truth is not only for children who have the right to know their origins: it also concerns adults, who must set the right example. To provide for transparency and truth at the gift stage would, in my view, be consistent with the spirit of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u232	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u233	Mr Hetzel, there is no contradiction. You want to make the consent of the donor conditional on the consent of the donor's spouse or partner: this creates confusion between biology and the family. However, this text is specifically aimed at ending the confusion between the biological part and the family part of the transmission. The donor, because he is only a gene donor, transmits a genetic history and not a family history; He is therefore not bound here by his own family relations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u234	We are in total disagreement on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u235	I maintain this unfavorable opinion. This is about the overall consistency of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u236	We don't think so!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u237	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u238	I fully understand the conception of the family that you are defending through these amendments: you want things to be said in a couple and there is no secret. We may wish so too. However, in some cases, donors will not be married at the time of the donation and we cannot ask them to involve their future spouse. The tensions you refer to will, therefore, concern couples in which the donor has given prior to marriage and for whom the consent of the spouse is not required. I also recall that the gift is revocable at any time. If both members of the couple have to give their consent, does that mean that the revocation is two? Can the spouse revoke it alone? And what do you do with pacse couples? In the case of married couples with children, should consent be sought from the spouse, or does this requirement arise solely from marital status? We believe that the donor's decision is a personal decision that does not involve the family because the donor is not a father. For this reason, even if we want him to tell his future spouse or spouses about it, we are against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u239	It's individualism pushed to its extreme!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u240	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u241	These amendments already provide for all cases: they refer to a donor as "married, pacsé or in cohabitation". The articles of the Civil Code relating to marriage state, however, that "the spouses must respect each other, faithfulness, aid, assistance"...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u242	For better and for worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u243	...for better and worse, yes. The donation of gametes has such great consequences that it is necessary to be able to secure the consent of both spouses. I say again: we do not know what effects this law will have in twenty years. Those who have had only one parent may be looking for more than biological origins, even if recognition of a bond of filiation is excluded. [[Mrs Agnes Thill and Mr Fabien Di Filippo applaud]] We must measure these consequences for children, including other donor children, so as not to destabilize them either. As a precaution, I think it would be more reasonable to adopt these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u244	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u245	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill applauds]] It seems to me that, in a couple, we make decisions together. Otherwise, what's the point of being a couple? It is quite particular that the right-wing deputies are criticized for being in solidarity, for not being individualistic enough: it is still damned captivated! The couple is here to anticipate. You mentioned, Madam rapporteur, a modern construction of love in rupture with the old conception of the couple, no doubt more utilitarian. But the couple remains utilitarian: the couple's commitments have a meaning, the regime of the community reduced to the acquests has a meaning, like a host of other things. Decisions that involve disruptions to family life must be made by many. You never decide better than many, especially when you're with people you trust. [[Applause on a few benches in the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] On the other hand, I again protest against this denial of reality, which is to say that fatherhood and biologicals would be different things – circulate, there is nothing to see. The rapporteur warned us: "Be careful what you say, children from LDCs may be shocked by your comments. But now, hundreds of thousands of scientists in France are tearing their hair out to hear you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u246	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 80, 408, 717, 771, 1203, 1647.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u247	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 114 Number of votes cast 109 Absolute majority 55 For adoption 28 Against 81
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u248	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 412 and 955. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 412.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u249	This amendment is intended to supplement article 3, paragraph 10 with the following sentence: "In the case of a child from an embryo donation, the child has the opportunity to access non-identifiable data concerning each member of the couple and their identity. This wording allows the child, in all cases, to have access to the unidentifiable data and the identity of the donor, as it is necessary to respond to the situation where the child is born from an embryo donation. Again, if we want to be consistent, we must go to the end of our logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u250	Amendment No 955 by Mr Le Fur is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u251	In order not to offend Mr Hetzel, I will not simply reply that the committee's opinion is unfavourable. I do not think these amendments are necessary. They are already satisfied by the logic of the text which provides that, in the event of a donation of gametes, only the donor will be solicited; in the case of a donation of an embryo made by a couple, access to the unidentifiable data of the couple is provided. As a spirit of peace prevails in the Chamber, it is a request for the withdrawal of Mr Hetzel; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u252	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u253	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u254	Mr Didier Martin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2330.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u255	The purpose of this amendment is to enable the third-party donor, if he or she so wishes, to provide the physician with information concerning post-donation medical conditions or problems so that such non-identifiable data can be brought to the attention of the person born of the donation, which would enable him or her to take all appropriate measures concerning his or her own health. This information of a medical nature can be important for the health of people born of the gift and, I repeat, its communication will be based on the completely free will of the third-party donor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u256	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u257	Because of the somewhat complicated way in which its meeting under Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure took place, the committee delivered an opinion against this amendment. Nevertheless, in the light of the brilliant explanation that has just been made and given the particular cases that may arise, I personally express a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u258	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u259	I am in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u260	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u261	The amendment proposed by Mr Martin is quite interesting. One might even wonder to what extent such statements should be made on a voluntary basis. Many measures are mandatory in medicine, especially when there is a threat to public health. Do we want to stay in the field of volunteering or should we go further?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u262	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 865, 2002 and 2079. Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 865.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u263	It aims to ensure that the list of non-identifiable data is not included in the legislation but is defined by decree in the Council of State, taking into account national and international scientific data. A recent survey of gamete donors, recipient pairs and major adults from gamete donation identifies non-identifiable data that are acceptable to all gamete donors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u264	Amendment No 2002 by Mr Bruno Fuchs is being defended. Mrs Valentin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2079.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u265	Defended, due to the application of scheduled time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u266	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u267	These amendments are satisfied, since the text already defines the main characteristics of the non-identifiable data: they are, therefore, legal, and Article 3 refers to a decree in the Conseil d'État specifying these different characteristics. I therefore call for the amendments to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u268	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u269	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u270	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor to support Amendment No. 1749.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u271	This amendment, relating to paragraph 11, has the same objective as that which I have defended in relation to paragraph 10. At this stage of the text, we place ourselves chronologically ahead of the gamete donation: the person concerned has not yet consented to the communication of his non-identifiable data and his identity. The aim is therefore to restore the consistency of the provisions of the new chapter on access to non-identifying data and the identity of the third-party donor, explicitly distinguishing the third-party donor from the single candidate for donation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u272	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u273	This amendment, which is consistent with the one adopted on paragraph 10, makes it possible to clarify the wording of paragraph 11. However, as we have done for the previous one, at the suggestion of Mr Bazin, it should be corrected by replacing the words "persons" with the words "persons" and by making the necessary agreements to the plural throughout the rest of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u274	Mr. Mbaye, are you in favour of these corrections?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u275	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u276	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u277	Favourable to the amendment thus corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u278	[[Smile]] This is Bazin case law, if I may!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u279	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 413 and 956. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 413.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u280	Defended, due to the application of scheduled time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u281	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 956.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u282	Defended as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u283	Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor to support Amendment No. 2550.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u284	By repeating the drafting of the draft law, it follows the same logic of respecting the right to private and family life of the third-party donor: it aims to ensure that the doctor may not collect information about the third-party donor if he or she considers that it would clearly allow his or her identification.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u285	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u286	For the sake of consistency, I would ask for this amendment to be withdrawn: if it were adopted, the regulatory power would no longer be able to specify the nature of the non-identifiable data and the identifying data. It is on this basis that I have asked for identical amendments 865, 2002 and 2079 to be withdrawn: it seems to me important that the regulatory power consolidates the nature of the non-identifying and identifying data. In the absence of a withdrawal, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u287	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u288	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u289	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u290	I have not understood your answer, Madam rapporteur: the amendment is intended to take into account the opinion of the donor when he or she thinks, rightly or wrongly, that the data requested would identify him or her. Taking into account the donor's opinion seems to me necessary. I maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u291	Amendment No 2303 corrected by Mrs Coralie Dubost is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u292	Amendment No 768 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u293	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u294	[[Applause among non-attached Members and on a few benches in the LR Group]] I would like to make a final point of order, on the basis of Rule 49(7). More than twenty-eight articles are still to be considered on more than eight days of debate, but there are still Members who are not registered less than five minutes of speaking time. One last time, Mr President, I ask you to intercede with the Conference of Presidents to review the speaking time allocated to non-attached Members. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u295	What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 768?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u296	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u297	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u298	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u299	I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 1052.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u300	The question of the motivation of the donation is a matter of private life or even family life. Not only does it not comply with Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, but it can also lead to the writing of distorted writings: false altruism, deep or obscure reasons, distress, all things exposed and which should not be. That is why this amendment is intended to remove the inclusion of such data in the drafting of consent to donation, as provided for in paragraph 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u301	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u302	I am very intrigued by the purpose of this amendment: the fact of providing the motivations for the donation in the non-identifiable data is, on the contrary, likely to answer questions that may arise from children from an IAD who have become major, in particular with regard to their genetic identity narrative or the altruistic motivations of the donor. Where do I come from? Why did I come from a gift? Why did this man or woman at some point decide to share his genetic heritage? Perhaps the child, who became a major, will satisfy himself with these answers and will not seek to know the identity of the donor. This is a key element of the text, which must be retained. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u303	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u304	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u305	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 1715, 1038, 1753, 1760 and 2009, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 1760 and 2009 are identical. Amendment No 1715 by Mr Christophe Naegelen is being defended. I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 1038.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u306	I'll be brief because of the time schedule. The purpose of this amendment is to facilitate the research of children who are gifted and who are in search of their origins. It is therefore a matter of bringing the offspring closer to the children born of their gift, if the former consent, in a constructive and gradual approach. Each donor should be able to leave the information he or she wishes in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u307	Amendment No 1753 by Mr Jean François Mbaye is being defended. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1760.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u308	It is intended not to limit the list of non-identifiable data that third-party donors leave when they consent to the donation. Thus, in addition to the six elements proposed in article 3, donors would be given the freedom to leave the non-identifying elements or information that they consider useful. There is indeed no reason to lock the type of data collected, since the ad hoc committee may in any case decide on the non-identification of certain data.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u309	I call Mr Bruno Fuchs to support Amendment No. 2009.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u310	The special commission may have decided the matter a little quickly: it would be useful to ask again what freedom the donor would have, at the time of the donation, to give the information he wished, even if, as the minister pointed out, their exploitation posed technical difficulties. However, twenty years later, the donor will no longer remember exactly the state of mind in which he was at the time of the donation: it will be good to be able to find these elements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u311	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u312	Their purpose is commendable, since they aim to leave as much information as possible to people from an ADI. However, the drafting of the text is already broad, since it provides for physical characteristics, motivations at the time of donation, age or family status: there are already many data. The amendment therefore seems to me to be greatly satisfied. In addition, if the donor were given the ability to deliver all the types of information he or she wishes, without providing a legislative or regulatory framework, this could lead to the provision of identifiers at the core of non-identifiable data, which would be an element of disruption. Finally, some of these amendments include the word "element": objects should not be tabled. For all these reasons, call for the withdrawal of all these amendments; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u313	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u314	The same opinion on all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u315	Mrs Valentin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2080.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u316	I'll be brief because of the time schedule. It is essential, both for the child's personal construction and future, that the child have access to his or her own genetic and family history, which are elements inherent in life. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u317	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u318	As far as genetic history is concerned, the amendment is partly satisfied with the amendments made to the wording of Article 9 in a special committee: I am thinking in particular of the fact that people from an ADI will have access to the genetic information of their genetic parentel. In addition, an amendment by the rapporteur, Mr Philippe Berta, turned what was an option into an obligation: the doctor will have to transmit this information. As far as family history is concerned, the wording of the amendment seems too broad. The non-identifiable data will already include the family situation and the reasons for the donation. In addition, the words "genetics" and "family" do not seem to me to be able to be correlated, since the text applies precisely to distinguishing between genetic heritage and family relationships. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u319	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u320	I recall that before consenting to the donation, the donor is required to complete a very specific, multi-page questionnaire on his or her medical history. Data on family risks of chronic or genetic disease are therefore already recorded at this stage. We only need to ensure that the donor will be able to supplement this data later, especially in the event of a condition that he had not yet reported at the time of the donation. This is precisely what makes possible the adoption, in committee, of an amendment providing for the mandatory transmission of information relating to an abnormality or genetic disease discovered after the donation – in both senses, moreover: the provision to the donor of medical information relating to the child born of the donation, or the provision to the donor of information relating to the donor. Your amendment therefore seems to us to be largely satisfactory, and I request that it be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u321	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1003.u322	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the bioethics bill. The meeting is adjourned.
