ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u1	The next item is the discussion, for final reading, of the draft budget regulation and approval bill for the year 2018 (No. 2189, 2192).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u2	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u3	The Senate – unsurprisingly this time – rejected, on further reading, the 2018 Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill, which it rejected all sections of the bill. We are therefore proceeding today with its definitive reading. I will not repeat the speech that the Government has already made four times before the two assemblies, and will confine myself to setting out, for the last time, a few observations. Last year, the government deficit fell by 0.3 percentage points, to 2.5% – down from 2.8% in 2017. According to our initial forecast, which is EUR 10 billion less, it is improving. Last year, the public expenditure ratio increased from 55% to 54.4% of GDP, credifying our target of a three-point decline during the quinquennium. The compulsory levy rate has decreased by 0.2 percentage points of GDP to 45% of GDP, also credifying the path we plan to take. Finally, the state's wealth result was – €51.9 billion, the best result since 2008, and government debt stabilized at 98.4% of GDP. Next year, we will continue to follow this path and ensure that we finance the tax cuts we have announced, amounting to €27 billion. When considering the next finance bill, you will have the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to see how the Government intends to deliver on its commitments over the next three years. You will also have the opportunity to implement the recommendations of the members of the Finance Committee who have contributed to improving the evaluation of the Government's budgetary performance. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I invite you to pass this bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u4	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u5	We have come to the conclusion of a somewhat surreal process, characterized by the Senate's rejection of this bill at first reading, despite the passage of its clauses, and by a further rejection at new reading, following the rejection of its clauses. When considering a proposed regulation, two questions need to be asked. The first step is to determine whether the accounts are in line with the forecasts. Have they deteriorated? In the present case, the answer is no. The next step is to look at the implementation of the budget. Does this pose a problem of sincerity? The answer is also no. [[Smiles and applause on the benches of the LaREM and IUD-I groups]] In view of these two answers, which would negate what might be a problem for a bill of regulations, I invite you, colleagues, to pass this bill of regulations on final reading, and give you four minutes of silence!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u6	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor. I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u7	In the introduction to my remarks, I will mention a few examples of the State's disengagement following the cancellation of appropriations for several budgetary missions, which will not be carried over to the next budget. "Official development aid": EUR 171.9 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 31.6 million in payment appropriations. "Agriculture, food, forestry and rural affairs": €530.9 million in commitment authorisations and €19.6 million in payment appropriations. "Cohesion of territories": €454.7 million in commitment authorisations and €13.3 million in payment appropriations. "Defence": €1.2 billion in commitment authorities and €102 million in payment appropriations. "Justice": €167.3 million in commitment authorisations and €53.6 million in payment appropriations. "Overseas": EUR 72.5 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 73.8 million in payment appropriations. "Relations with local and regional authorities": EUR 131 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 103.2 million in payment appropriations. "Securitys": €79.6 million in commitment authorisations and €27.2 million in payment appropriations. "Work and employment": EUR 2.4 billion in commitment authorisations and EUR 14.2 million in payment appropriations. "Culture": EUR 35.7 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 1.2 million in payment appropriations. These are the cancellations of appropriations that you are about to vote for, ladies and gentlemen of the majority! This money, the Government has not invested it to change our country! This money, you will not carry it back to the 2019 budget! So it's a dry loss for the population. Yet, who can say that our military equipment has been renewed? Who can say here that the cohesion of the territories has been strengthened? Who can say here that the number of unemployed in France has decreased enough for the state to stop investing? Who can say here that the world of culture is better? Who can say here that our courts have the means to function properly? Who can say here that the lives of our farmers have improved, even though so many still commit suicide? Who can say here that the Government has enabled the Overseas Territories to lift their heads and populations out of poverty? No one! On the contrary, in all segments of society, it is said that the State has disengaged from its public service tasks. Have you learned nothing about the movement of the yellow vests and the state of mind of the French that he reveals? Of course, you will tell me that these savings are a good thing, because they would contribute to the reduction of public debt. That's not true! From 2017 to 2018, the government's budget deficit increased by €8.3 billion! Mr Secretary of State, before I ask you to return the money, I ask you the question: Where did he go? What did you do with all that money? 8.3 billion euros is much more than the cost of a few lobsters, and dinners that are given in the ministries and at the Elysée while the people are starving! Where's the money? If the money doesn't smell, it leaves traces. So I'm going to tell you where some of this money went: in the pockets of the rich, friends of Mr. Macron! Here's the details. Abolition of the ISF – solidarity tax on wealth: 3.2 billion. Gift! Single flat-rate levy, also called flattax: €1.6 billion. Gift! CICE Increase – Tax Credit for Competitiveness and Employment: €3.5 billion. Gift! Decrease in the corporate tax rate: €1.2 billion. Gift! One can add to all this the abolition of the 3% dividend tax, invalidated by the Constitutional Council: €1.8 billion. One more present! At the same time, non-progressive taxes, which are the most unfair, have increased, notably energy taxation – more than EUR 4.1 billion – and VAT, particularly in the housing and construction sector – plus EUR 0.9 billion. We've got pockets!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u8	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u9	However, the Government continues to say that purchasing power increased by 1 per cent in 2018. Mr. Secretary of State, why not go up to the gallery to detail this increase? Let's say the truth: only the rich have gained purchasing power! According to the cumulative figures of measures taken for 2018 and 2019, the 1% of the richest taxpayers each earned 3016 euros per month, thanks to Emmanuel Macron and his government! And the richest of them are even more successful. The 0,1 % of the most affluent taxpayers benefited from an increase in disposable income of 17,5 %, an annual gain ranging from 32000 euros to several hundred thousand additional euros for each of the 30000 richest households in France! The observation is therefore very clear: you take in the pockets of the poorest French people to give to the richest. You're the Robin Hoods of the rich of this country! I will conclude with two well-known quotes from Victor Hugo. Here is the first: "The paradise of the rich is made out of the hell of the poor." Dear colleagues of the majority, you are in charge of opening the gates of paradise for the rich and attivating the embers of the hell of the poor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u10	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u11	But Victor Hugo also said: "Nothing is more powerful than an idea whose time has come". Here we go! The movement of yellow vests, as well as the social mobilizations that this country is experiencing, have shown that the people want social and fiscal justice. This idea is now rooted in the minds of the greatest number of people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u12	You made 6% in the European elections!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u13	One thing is certain: the time will come when the people will regain power. Then he will ask you for accounts and distribute wealth with justice. That day, I'll be by his side, as I've always been. This motion of prior rejection has in it the rejection of your policy in general, and not only of the text that we are considering.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u14	In the explanations of vote on the motion for rejection, the floor is for Mrs Sabine Rubin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u15	Colleagues, I too will thank you for my two minutes of speaking time, and I will merely say that we will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. Jean-Luc Ratenon said it very well: in addition to your number policy, it is a global policy that we reject, as well as all the misery that it generates, to which you seem completely blind. This is an opportunity for us to reaffirm that your budgetary policy, which you have pursued and which you will unfortunately continue to pursue, is deadly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u16	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u17	Of course, the exercise is very formal. He was at the forefront of the discussion of the text; It is even more so in its final phase. I have spoken on several occasions about this bill, which in a way summarizes the first full fiscal year of the majority. Of course, there will be some redundancies and repetition effects in my speech – annoying for you as for me – but much less than in your mantra "doing more with less", than we have been told for decades! Indeed, I see the majorities pass and the faces change, but one policy remains: austerity and the fall in public spending, which produces nothing but the strangulation of demand and the explosion of insecurity, as well as inequalities – you certainly see it as I do in your daily life! The figures speak for themselves: public expenditure falls by 1.8 per cent in real terms, and compulsory levies collapse by 16.5 billion euros. This is an unprecedented record since 2009! Is this a question of relieving SMEs and SMEs, as well as the middle and modest classes, each day a little more worried the next day? In spite of the official speeches intended to make your policy look like it, it can be said very clearly: no! This is a targeted decline, benefiting not the majority of our fellow citizens, but a handful of ultra-rich, nestled within this connivance capitalism, which is the salt of this government. ISF, CICE, flat tax: close to 9.5 billion euros are subtracted from the nation's budget – charges French and French people to cover the resulting deficit! So, since 2017, you've reduced the financing of personalized housing assistance by 2.5 billion euros, you're looking to save 4 billion on housing policy by 2020 and you're sabering in assisted contracts. But rising spending only scares Liberals when it comes to taking the rich to redistribute to the most modest. The portfolio is made at once wider when it comes to covering tax expenditures, which now number more than 200, these niches of all kinds whose social and economic utility is not always proven, far from it. Unscrupulously, you sell goods that are not your own property, but to the entire national community, and are the fruits of common work. I will take as an example only Paris Airport – ADP. Strategic sector, if any, fully cost-effective, moreover, and also providing an obvious public service mission. Isn't the previous disaster of the privatisation of Toulouse airport enough for you? By privatisation, you intend to abound your famous fund for innovation. However, of the 10 billion of the Innovation Fund, the Court of Auditors itself estimates that it will only come out every year 250 million, the rest losing in the way of a "complex and unjustified budgetary mechanism". This amount is equivalent to what ADP paid each year to the state budget, without even mentioning the situation of La Française des jeux. The same Court of Auditors thus shows that these funds are five times less profitable than the average of public participations: for maniacs of austerity at any rate, you seem to me to be very poor accountants! The "spring of evaluation" is therefore only a masquerade that confirms the budgetary obsessions at work, under the joint leadership of Bercy and Brussels. Yet, the social and climate emergency should force us to chart a horizon other than a stunted sky. We could, for example, rather than helping large fortunes, soften inequalities through taxation, direct investment by the state, stimulate demand through the distribution of wealth. But no, we prefer to cajole the privileged, point out the popular classes, and pressurize the middle classes. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] While you applauded young Greta a few days ago, you voted for CETA – Comprehensive economic and trade agreement, a global economic and trade agreement. I therefore think that in this Chamber it may still be too cool, as in the office cars, so that you are warm enough and you can understand the climate emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u18	It's contemptuous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u19	[[Laurent Furst applauds]] Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u20	I applaud the man, not the party!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u21	This morning I am making the voice of Jean-Paul Dufrègne, with only a little personal touch. Once again, we will vote against this 2018 budget, this budget of the rich that has set the course of the quinquennium, opening the gates of public finances to the benefit of some. Far from your fantasies of June 2017, the political project that you have since implemented, around the leitmotiv "down taxes, down public spending", is nothing, absolutely nothing of the "new world". You said you were above the traditional left-right cleavage. The reality has shown that you are pursuing a liberal right-wing policy...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u22	No, we'd do better!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u23	... a policy that the parties on this side of the House would not even have dared to implement. Are you aware of that, Mr. Rapporteur-General? You're proud to have cut taxes in our country. But to whose benefit? By abolishing the ISF, by reducing taxes on financial income and dividends, by lowering corporate taxes without calling into question their tax niches, which cost more than 60 billion euros each year, by refusing to introduce ambitious, fair and modern taxation on financial transactions, you have reduced the taxes of the richest and large companies by more than 11 billion, the taxes of those who sniff the surplus-value as white powder. 11 billion, a pharaoh figure for a very small number! Recall that the abolition of the ISF and the implementation of the single rate taxation of financial income resulted in a tax reduction of 86000 euros on average for the richest 0.1%. For others, at best crumbs, at worst an increased tax burden to finance this far too complacent policy towards the richest. The housing tax has been reduced, but VAT is increasing even more. You have tried to present the increase in the domestic consumption tax on energy products – ICTPE – this pump tax, as an ecological measure. But the French were not fooled: they quickly realized that this increase was mainly to compensate for the elimination of the ISF by an equivalent budget amount, which set the powders on fire for several months. End of the world, end of the month, same fight! That is what should be the keystone of our society project, the new basis of the Republican pact. For social justice and environmental protection – the end of the month and the end of the world – are the two priorities on which we all need to act, and in an unprecedented way, under the penalty of dislocation or disappearance. The budget for 2019 has not taken the measure, and there is every reason to believe that the budget for 2020 will be in the same vein: no questioning of the tax gifts of the beginning of the quinquennium, even though their economic and social efficiency is close to nothing. On the other hand, new retrograde measures are on the agenda, such as pension reform, which will turn its back on all employees who work under difficult conditions and end their tired careers, unable to benefit from a dignified and healthy retirement. You are trying to introduce the new reform of personalized housing subsidies – APL – as a simple modification of their calculation method. However, if you expect savings of more than EUR 1 billion, it is good that some will lose. This management policy, at the service of the company alone, is not able to prepare for the future, that of our country, that of our young people, that of our territories, that of our planet. The drought at work, the heat wave that affects the country, are all signs that something is going wrong. And yet, in the space of a day, you will have seen, in the morning, applaud Greta Thunberg and in the afternoon vote the CETA, taken in a form of schizophrenia...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u24	That's right! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u25	... taking on a new stage in this deadly race of free trade. In keeping with their political commitment, the parliamentarians of the GDR Group will carry the torch of another social project, respectful of human beings and the environment, placing dignity, justice and the future at the heart of our tax system. A truly progressive tax system, making more contribution to those who can afford it, effectively imposing large companies, not for the pleasure of taxing them, but because they must also contribute to the financing of public action, the maintenance of our infrastructure, health and training. What we want is an environmentally virtuous tax system, accompanying positive and innovative behaviour, organising the transition and development of alternatives. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and SOC groups – Laurent Furst also applauds]] This fight is not only fair, it is now imperative.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u26	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u27	As you know, 2018 was marked by the implementation of a new approach in financial relations between the state and local and regional authorities. Contrary to what some had suggested, this financial contract was perfectly compatible with the Constitution, and the objective of controlling the expenditures assigned to the 322 largest communities was perfectly realistic. Evidence of this is that while the target was an increase in community operating expenditures of 1.2%, communities increased them by 0.9% in 2018, including supplementary budgets. For those communities that had subscribed to this contract, operating expenditures decreased by 0.2%. This control of spending, coupled with a better return on local taxation, leads to an increase in gross savings in communities by 6.3% in 2018, the strongest increase in the last three years. The results are therefore in line with the objectives we set ourselves: local and regional authorities' investment expenditure went up again for the second year in a row, and increased by about 5% in 2018, after falling by 18% between 2013 and 2017. In connection with the recovery of local investment, after three years of decline, the VAT compensation fund – FCTV – is increasing by 37 million euros and, since it was released from the envelope in 2018, this increase is entirely financed by the State. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the dynamics of investment are more money, more projects, more jobs in all of our territories. We can therefore welcome the respect for the control of expenditure by the elected representatives and, at the same time, the respect for the majority's commitment to the local and regional authorities, whose allocations have been maintained and the visibility increased. Everyone wins, and the elected officials finally have the visibility necessary for the successful fulfilment of their mandate. The initiation of what can be called a virtuous circle and the confidence regained with the elected representatives allow us to undertake three fundamental reforms for our territories in Act II of the mandate: the reform of local taxation in the next finance law; the review, at the beginning of the year, of the bill to restore power to mayors and to foster local engagement; a new stage of decentralization, finally, by also relaunching deconcentration. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We are proud, ladies and gentlemen, to lead the most ambitious policy for the territories of the last twenty years, and to empower local elected officials to be the main players in the transformation of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u28	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u29	We meet this morning for a final reading of the 2018 Settlement Bill, just eight days after it was re-read. My remarks will therefore extend those I held last week and, finally, what I have said for the last two years. Despite the willingness to reduce public spending, despite a desire to tackle its excesses, efforts now seem to be delayed to the Greek calends.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u30	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u31	The bill before us this morning reflects this situation. However, all the indicators are particularly worrying, and should make you aware, ladies and gentlemen, of the urgency to act. Public expenditure, first of all, accounts for 56% of French GDP in 2018. It's a record in Europe. It should be compared with the European Union average of 45.8% and with rates of 44% for Germany and 41% for the United Kingdom. However, this excessive level of public spending explains our highest compulsory levy rate in the OECD. When you let public spending drift, you are forced, sooner or later, to increase taxes and taxes. France is now ahead of Denmark, Sweden and Finland, which are known for their high rates of compulsory levies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u32	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u33	In particular, we are the European country with the highest level of social contributions: they represent 18.8% of national GDP. This level of levies affects the principle of consent to tax. It is this excess tax, this tax overdose that is directly responsible for the movement of yellow vests. France's level of deficit makes it a bad pupil – and even a very bad pupil – of the euro area. Moreover, as the High Council for Public Finance points out, while the reduction in the structural deficit is close to the path set out in the law on public finance programming, the structural balance remains far from the medium-term objective. At the end of the chain, the direct consequence of these expenses that you let go is that our debt goes off to everything. It is true that low rates give you a little margin and will allow you to reduce the debt burden by €4 billion in 2020. It's a welcome bowl of oxygen, but it shouldn't lead you to give up any effort. It would be a major misjudgement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u34	It's one!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u35	Because the debt continues to rise. Here are some figures: as of 31 December 2016, it amounted to 2147 billion euros; at 31 December 2017, at 2258 billion; to reach, on 31 March 2019 – this is the latest figure known according to the Maastricht criteria – €2359 billion. Since Emmanuel Macron's election, therefore, the debt has increased – stand by, ladies and gentlemen – by €2700 per inhabitant, an increase of 8%, to about €36300 per inhabitant – it is a liability that we leave to our children and grandchildren. Worse, this amount will continue to increase until 2022. This reality is disappointing, and above all very worrying. For the past two and a half years, despite a largely positive growth, despite a relatively high price per barrel, you have proved unable to control spending. Yet, as you know, controlling public spending is the only way to create a virtuous circle in our country: less public spending is less compulsory taxes for businesses and for households, it is also more competitive, margins and investment, therefore more growth, better tax revenues and a reduction in unemployment, thus less social transfers and support for the economy. However, none of this is committed by the Government, and the 2018 accounts reveal it to us. It is a regret, and above all a cause for grave concern. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all the reasons mentioned, Members of Parliament The Republicans will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u36	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u37	Following the Senate's rejection of the 2018 Settlement Bill, we are considering it for final reading this morning. Much of what can be said about him has already been said. I would like to recall the support of the MODEM Group, which is related to this text. One of the major budgetary challenges for our Parliament is control and evaluation. Indeed, if it is widely debated in our Chamber, the finance law can be amended if it does not upset the great balances of it. The preparation of the budget remains a prerogative of the Government. But the sincerity of the budget is the prerequisite for effective control and proper evaluation of Parliament. We all remember our surprise in the summer of 2017, when the Court of Auditors, in its audit of public finances, highlighted massive under-budgeting and gross over-estimates of revenues, which led the Government to make difficult arbitrations. With regard to budgetary sincerity, Mr Secretary of State, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank you for all the efforts made since the beginning of the parliamentary term. I am thinking of the reduction in the reserves, which also has the merit of holding public managers accountable, or of the better initial budgeting of certain expenditure such as the external operations of our armed forces. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, there are still many areas where progress is desirable. I would like to mention, for example, the necessary transparency on the revenue and expenditure related to the energy transition on which, at the initiative of our colleague, Bénédicte Peyrol, we will have an annex to the next finance law. More generally, I would like to draw your and the attention of the Government as a whole to the importance of the transmission of information requested by parliamentarians in the preparation of special reports. The recent example of the rapporteur-general's information report on the application of tax measures shows that, on this point, progress is still possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u38	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u39	At first glance, your budgetary commitments seem to be met, but at what cost? Let me tell you, Secretary of State, your good results are just a trompe l'oeil. Your method ready for discussion. Indeed, in order to achieve your budgetary objectives, you had to "organize" the under-consumption of the appropriations voted in the original finance law. In view of the number of missions whose appropriations were ultimately not all consumed, the question arises whether this is in itself a genuine budgetary policy. Indeed, section 4 of the proposed Regulations makes a record number of cancellations of commitment authorizations and payment credits not consumed and not carried forward. For example, for the Overseas Mission, the 2018 Annual Performance Report indicates an under-consumption of payment appropriations in the order of EUR 177 million. The Court of Auditors has described this massive under-consumption of appropriations as "unpublished". This is no coincidence. This obvious under-execution is only the result of the government's strategy since 2017, i.e. a recentralisation of overseas financing instead of a concerted development policy with the territories. With regard to the "Work and employment" mission, the under-consumption of appropriations is evident. The aim of Article 4 is to cancel EUR 14.2 million in payment appropriations and EUR 2.4 billion in non-deferred commitment authorisations for the Access and Return to Employment programme alone. These massive cancellations, which serve the Government by giving the appearance of budgetary commitments, are only the result of its employment policy and its fight against the unemployed rather than unemployment. The government's attack on aided contracts may save money, but it is totally counterproductive. Indeed, we went from 460,000 job creations in 2016 to only 128000 in 2018, and then 100,000 in 2019. This is the direct and unfortunate consequence of the Government's policy. Under-execution undermines the instruments that allow for the inclusion in employment of those who were far removed from the labour market. Unfortunately, the replacement proposed by the Government, the job skills pathways, was a failure: 128,000 had been created where the finance law set a target of 200000. As for the "Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Rural Affairs" mission, the Court of Auditors, in its budget implementation note, denounced the "massive" disengagements due to "differences" between the State that supports the budget entry and the ASP – the Service and Payment Agency – which ensures its payment. This is why Article 4 cancels EUR 19.6 million for this mission as well as EUR 530 million of commitment authorisations for the Competitiveness and Sustainability of Agriculture programme. Several other essential tasks for local and regional authorities, our public services and our fellow citizens are affected by these important under-consumptions of appropriations: "Relationship with local and regional authorities", "Cohesion of territories", "Culture", "Security", "Defence", "Justice", "Official development aid" – the list is long, Secretary of State! The gap between the appropriations allocated in the original finance law and the budgetary implementation found by the settlement law is striking and worrying. Given the number of missions involved and the disappointed recipients of these credits – communities, public services, the regalian, the most fragile and job seekers – the cancellation of credits does indeed seem to constitute a policy in itself. Why? To achieve your budgetary and economic goals at all costs – this would not have been possible without these Dantic cancellations. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Unsurprisingly, the Socialist and Related Group will not be voting on the 2018 bill to regulate and approve the accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u40	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u41	Here we are for final reading of the 2018 Settlement Bill. This first year of full management of the quinquennium must be seen as the translation of the political choices and course decided by the Government for public finances. First of all, a positive point: the 2018 financial year was marked by a significant improvement in the sincerity of the budget, particularly with regard to expenditure. We have seen a sharp decrease in sub-budgeting, but also a better controlled execution of public spending than in previous years – evidence of the absence of an advance order in the course of the year. However, it will be necessary to ensure that cancellation orders do not become systematic, at the risk of undermining the sincerity of the original finance law. On the other hand, France's government deficit is for the second consecutive year below 3% of GDP. It was 2.5 points, compared to 2.8 in 2017. However, the level of deficit is still very high, placing considerable uncertainty on the end of the quinquennium. It is clear that the effort to restore the country's balance of public finances remains insufficient. In addition, the 2018 execution was marked by a sharp deceleration of activity, with an estimated growth of 1.6%, compared to 2.3% in 2017. With regard to the structural deficit, which makes it possible to quantify the effort in operating expenditure, it stagnates in 2018, since its reduction is less than 0.1 point of GDP. The effort on public expenditure, excluding tax credits, has thus been absorbed almost entirely by measures to reduce compulsory levies decided by the Government. At the same time, the government's budget deficit has been slippery, reaching EUR 76 billion. It now stands at 3% of GDP and is well above the general government deficit. The increase in the budget deficit exceeded the level which would have allowed it to stabilize the debt related to GDP by EUR 33.3 billion. The improvement in the public deficit is therefore mainly due to the surplus for the second consecutive year of social security administrations, which amounts to EUR 10.7 billion, and to a lesser extent to that of local authorities. As for the debt of all public administrations, the ratio to GDP is stable, but its amount continues to rise as our European neighbours have been reducing it for several years. Fortunately, the debt interest burden has stabilized, due to low interest rates. But the International Monetary Fund is concerned about the level of French debt for the future, since a possible rise in rates would expose the State to financial risk. The State's financial situation therefore unfortunately continued to worsen in 2018. But this is the fruit of choice, in favour of purchasing power and a reduction in the tax burden in particular. Now, in order to hope to restore public finances before the end of the legislature, it is imperative to significantly increase the savings on public spending. [[Applause on the benches of the IUD-I group as well as on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] IDU and Independent MPs will vote in favour of this 2018 regulatory bill for its positive aspects, but we will not abandon the objective of restoring the balance of our public finances and we will remain extremely attentive to the implementation of 2019 and subsequent years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u42	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u43	The rejection of the bill by senators leads us to consider it this morning for final reading. I want to welcome – as I have already done – the implementation of the 2018 Finance Act. The management of State expenditure has indeed been in line with the initial forecast; the reserve rate has been reduced and there has been no order making advance or cancellation of credits. All this contributes to greater budgetary sincerity. The State's revenue was EUR 8.8 billion higher than the amount provided for in the Finance Act. Satisfaction may need to be moderated, as these better-than-expected results must be attributed more to the international environment than to public action. Despite these positive signals, several weaknesses persist, in particular on the decisive issue of the deficit, on which the recent announcements on the PLF 2020 outlook confirm the trend. The government deficit, which stood at €76 billion in 2018, is certainly smaller than the one anticipated in the original finance law – €85.7 billion. However, it is EUR 8.3 billion higher than the budget implemented in 2017, an increase of 12%, which cannot be good news – let's say so to be moderate. On the other hand, the effort to save money is not particularly supported by the State. Rather, it is assumed by social security administrations and local authorities. This will lead the members of the Freedom and Territory Group to abstain very much on this text. As I indicated in the re-reading, the reduction of the structural deficit is not up to the European rules. The structural deficit is all the more relevant since it is not linked to the hazards of the economic situation. However, the reduction effort was only 0.1 points in 2018. In 2019, your forecasts rely on a structural effort of 0.3 percentage points of GDP, again far from the European target, unfortunately. There is another lever that the executive does not act: the reduction of public spending. While it is difficult to do so, the question arises. As we have pointed out on several occasions, a review of all tax niches is necessary, as they come to "mit" income tax and alter its progressivity. I am going to stop for a moment on the terms and conditions for reviewing this bill. The changes to the timetable were intended to make it a real act of results and a highlight of parliamentary evaluation and oversight. Despite the ambitions shown, this has never been the case since the adoption of the Organic Law on Finance Laws, the LOLF. However, the tightening of the timetable poses some difficulties. For example, the High Council for Public Finance issued its opinion even before INSEE published the results of the 2018 annual accounts. Adjustments must be made. On the other hand, we note that the budgetary framework of the State is increasingly complex, which hinders its readability. This affects our ability to understand, from a global perspective, the financial challenges associated with government action. On the occasion of the discussion of this text, I would also like to refer to the broad guidelines for 2020, which are now known. We note a lack of readability for corporate taxation. The Government intends to make a second exception, to the detriment of major groups, to the announced downward trend in corporate tax. This follows a first derogation under the GAFA tax, which we all have in mind. We also remember the commitments made by the Minister of Economy and Finance regarding his exceptional character – obviously he was not so exceptional! We take note of the decision to reduce the income tax by EUR 5 billion, which follows the abolition of the housing tax. However, we note that the reduction in fiscal niches, which the Government has called for, will only allow €615 million in savings in 2020, which is a problem. Ultimately, companies will be involved, as will certain sectors, including housing. Finally, you manage to close this budget by releasing the effort to reduce the deficit, since it will be 2.1% of GDP instead of 2%. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] I mentioned these few points of vigilance a little in advance, in view of the consideration of the next finance bill. We'll have an opportunity to get back to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u44	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u45	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, as it follows from the text passed by the National Assembly on re-reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u46	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on the competences of the European Community of Alsace (No 2134).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u47	The next speaker is Mr Remy Rebeyrotte, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u48	We come to the end of the legislative process concerning the competences of the future European Community of Alsace, the parliamentary shuttle – at first reading, the text was first examined in the Senate, since it is a text relating to the territorial organisation, then to the National Assembly – which resulted in a joint joint committee – CMP – concluding, which I am pleased to welcome. To achieve this result, Agnès Canayer, the bill's rapporteur in the Senate, and I have worked to bring the points of view closer together. I greet her through you and would like to thank her for her willingness to succeed and her constructive approach, cultivated on both sides. The Senate passed the day before yesterday, by a large majority, the text that brought us together this morning. In order to reach this agreement, we have been guided by the main principles of the Bill and the Matignon Joint Declaration. These principles have guided the work of both Parliament and the Government. What are they? First, the European Community of Alsace will be born on 1 January 2021 of the grouping of the two departmental councils, that of Bas-Rhin and that of Haut-Rhin, and will be endowed with specific competences relating to the reality of the territory which can be exercised in a clear and effective way: head of filat in many cross-border areas, including the health sector; major role in bilingualism and tourist attraction; the main roads, with the possibility of regulating traffic there. Alsace, an indisputable geographical, historical and cultural reality, will return to an institutional reality, through the European Community of Alsace and its advisors in Alsace, in line with its ambitions, in order to solve structural problems on which it wishes to make concrete progress. Second principle: this text concerns Alsace and exclusively Alsace. Third principle: this reform has been promoted, since its inception, by the actors of the Alsatian territory. It is therefore necessary to listen to them and, at the same time, to take account of the views and competences of the Grand East region, to which Alsace belongs – this is the institutional reality. Let us recall that the joint declaration of Matignon was the result of a discussion between the State and the two departmental councils, but also the Grand Est region. It is therefore a matter of respecting and maintaining balance. Fourthly, on all matters, including the management of the European Social Fund, the conditions for the transfer or organisation of sports and professional federations, we have ensured that we remain within the strictest legislative framework, so as not to weaken or weaken the text. We both know that, for the texts on territorial organisation, the greatest risk is the tendency to move towards regulation. It is on these principles that the text of the CMP is based. Finally, allow me two assertions. On the one hand, I would like to congratulate and thank all those who have contributed to the success of this initiative: the presidents of the two departmental councils and their team, the Greater East Region, the deputies sitting on the various benches of our assembly and the senators, the administrators of the two assemblies and, of course, the Government, first of all you, the minister of territorial cohesion and relations with the territorial communities, your teams and the services of the State, in particular the prefect Jean-Luc Marx and his collaborators. Some have been able to seize an opportunity in a tight timetable, before a series of electoral deadlines and reforms that will make initiatives more difficult in the short and medium term; the others have worked hard to enrich or frame the text, in an always constructive spirit. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-I groups]] On the other hand, we are all aware that this is a text that opens up new horizons for territorial differentiation within our one and indivisible Republic. The aim is to recognize the specific nature of the territories and their ability to organize themselves, in order to better respond to the challenges they face, to the challenges of their development. It recognizes the local initiative and constructive dialogue between the State and its territories, between the Government, national elected officials and local elected officials. It is therefore new opportunities and opportunities that open up for those who wish and know how to take initiatives that serve the general interest of their people, in all territories. It is a new breath for our territories, a new chapter that is written.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u49	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u50	Today we come to the end of the legislative path of this text, which aims to give substance to the desire of Alsace expressed by local actors and which is very much expected by its inhabitants. I am very pleased because, less than a year after the mission entrusted to me by the Prime Minister, this text recognises, in law, the specificities of Alsace. I also welcome this, because it is a singular text in several ways that illustrates both the Government's willingness to materialize a differentiated approach to the territories and its commitment to focusing on consultation and co-construction. The bill on which you will be voting in a moment is first of all representative of the Government's ambition, which I have set myself since my arrival in this ministry, to accompany each community in recognizing its specificities and valuing its assets. It is a matter of doing, wherever necessary, tailor-made or hand-sewn, always listening to the territories and to those who live them. Today, adapted and differentiated responses have been provided, and a new institutional framework has been drawn up. The Alsatian example shows that it is possible without institutional big bang, respecting the republican framework and the unity of the nation. In this project, the State played its role as a guarantor of the cohesion of the territories and as a partner of the communities, respectful of their singularities, because it is the conception we make of our missions; It is through these missions that the State is legitimate among our fellow citizens. This text illustrates, as I said, the Government's willingness to engage in consultation and co-development of its working methods. It was born, in fact, of a desire of Alsace, expressed by the local actors and which the Government wished to accompany, opening the possibility of making adjustments to the general institutional framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u51	A little homeopathic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u52	It is with this in mind that the Prime Minister entrusted to the regional prefect Jean-Luc Marx, whom I salute, a mission of consultation on the institutional future of Alsace. After many fruitful exchanges with local actors, as well as with parliamentarians and, within the Government, with my colleagues Élisabeth Borne and Jean-Michel Blanquer, a joint statement committing the Government, the two departmental councils and the Grand Est region...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u53	Why the Greater East?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u54	... was concluded in October 2018, under the auspices of the Prime Minister. This collective success fully illustrates the relationship that the Government intends to maintain between the State and local and regional authorities: a solid, peaceful relationship based on trust and partnership around projects that are locally born and accompanied by the Government through appropriate and multiple tools. A legislative translation of the Matignon Declaration, this text is also the result of a co-construction, between the Government and Parliament on the one hand, between the National Assembly and the Senate on the other. The rapporteur has just indicated that he has been greatly enriched by Parliament. The National Assembly strengthened the name of "Alsace European Community" and that of "Alsace Councillor". You also wanted to complement the competences of the community, in particular by integrating a river component into the scheme of cross-border cooperation and by setting up a strategic committee on German language teaching in Alsace, in order to organise the discussion between the State and the local authorities. The Senate has also contributed to the text, for example by introducing a health component into the cross-border cooperation scheme. The Joint Joint Committee meeting on 10 July has reached an agreement, which I fully welcome in my personal capacity. This text is the result of a common legislative work, at the end of debates – how to say? – passionate, who have been able to preserve the spirit of Matignon's declaration, that is, the orientations drawn by the Government and the local and regional authorities. It is an important milestone in the ambitious policy that this government intends to pursue for the territories, a policy that tends to recognize their diversity – I insist – and to develop their forces, while preserving the republican framework that is ours. It also augurs well, because it demonstrates that the Government, Parliament and local and regional authorities can, each in their role, meet the expectations of our fellow citizens, as closely as possible to the realities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, IDU-I and LR groups]] In conclusion, allow me to thank the members of the Law Committee for their work, the rapporteur, Rémy Rebeyrotte, for his constructive attitude and valuable contributions, and of course the Chair, Yaël Braun-Pivet: they played an essential role in the outcome of this legislative process. I would also like to thank, with all my heart, all the Members who participated in the examination of this text, on all benches – with a special mention for the Alsatian Members, regardless of their membership.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u55	It was a declaration of love!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u56	In the general debate, Mr Alain Bruneel spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u57	Following the agreement of the CMP, we are looking at this text with a view to the creation of a new department, the European Community of Alsace, scheduled for 1 January 2021 by merging the departments of Bas-Rhin and Haut-Rhin. At first reading, we had raised questions and concerns. First of all, they concerned the opportunity to legislate today on the Alsatian case, four years after the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, the NOTRE law, and the redistribution of regions. They also dealt with the use of a procedure independent of the consent of voters, whereas a similar draft merger had been submitted without success to the referendum six years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u58	It wasn't the same! The project was much more ambitious!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u59	Finally, we pointed out that the powers conferred on this new community foreshadowed the differentiation of the powers of local and regional authorities envisaged in the forthcoming constitutional review. It therefore seemed incongruous to legislate without a precise constitutional framework. We affirm our opposition to the very principle of differentiation, given our commitment to equality. This right as it emerges amplifies territorial dissonances. Widespread differentiation will put an end to equality before the law, since it can be modified from one community to another, each with specific competences and designations. Behind the appearance of difference, this project aims to mask social or fiscal inequalities and injustices, without reducing them. This organization will also make the local millsheet more complex, and may result in overlaps or discrepancies in skills management. In the case before us, this merger will have consequences for the Greater East region, the Eurométropole of Strasbourg, the public authorities and institutions for intercommunal cooperation – EPCI – of Alsace, which may be granted a delegation of powers, the departmental management centres, the SDIS – departmental fire and rescue services – and the deconcentrated services of the State. One might also wonder how they will be able to carry out these missions without having the competence of economic intervention, which the NOTRE law of 7 August 2015 has withdrawn from the departments, for the benefit of the regions and the metropolises.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u60	Trust decentralization!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u61	The use of the leadership system and skill-delegation agreements will complicate management and may lead to political and legal conflicts. This new territorial organisation will thus contribute to an increased difficulty in the implementation of public policies, which will become illegible to users and cause confusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u62	We should have made it easier!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u63	Dear colleague, thank you for respecting my point of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u64	We respect him, but we're talking about choices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u65	[[Protests on several benches of the LR and LaREM groups]] Under the pretext of particularism, of right to territorial difference, this legislative DIY made without the people is in fact a new step in the process of dismembering the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u66	What an exaggeration!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u67	Were you there to make such statements during the discussions on the status of Paris?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u68	However, its one-sided and indivisible nature and the principle of equality of all citizens can only lead us to oppose this development. On the contrary, we consider that the reconciliation of territorial differentiation and national unity requires a return to regional division, incompatible with the realities of the territories, to the division of powers between regions and departments and to the abolition of the general competence of the departments: they have made local management more complex and increased public expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u69	Perspice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u70	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] We believe that communities should have the opportunity to intervene freely, within the framework of general jurisdiction, when the interests of their territory are at stake. Thus, respect for Alsatian specificity requires not the creation of a special-purpose community, but a regional redistribution to ensure this respect, which would be possible in the current state of legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u71	Very well done! We agree with the conclusion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u72	The communists may still have an electoral future in Alsace!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u73	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You will have understood that, ladies and gentlemen: for all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u74	Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u75	At the end of these lively and fruitful debates, during which we spent a few days in Alsace, we come to the end of parliamentary work. At the risk of repeating myself, the draft law relating to the competences of the European Community of Alsace is a good and beautiful project. It devotes the will of local actors to better organize themselves to respond to the specific issues that are theirs. I would add that the version presented today, following a joint and final joint committee, is the result of a particularly rich parliamentary work, after having been the result of an open dialogue and fair consultation between the State and local actors. I would like to reiterate my thanks to all the elected representatives who have been involved in the further development of this text; This one, I dare say, will be a date. Indeed, as I said at first reading, this project is not an end in itself, nor even an end in itself. It marks the beginning of a new page in the history of Alsace, part of the Grand Est region, within the French Republic. Above all, it marks the beginning of the possibility, not of an island, but of differentiation, for the territories that so wish and organize it in the framework of a republican dialogue. Living one's culture, living one's language, being able to work, being able to move: these are the aspirations shared by all our fellow citizens. In some cases, these issues are local in nature; It is the one of Alsace, which is the only one that is taking us today. I am thinking, among other things, of regional languages and cultures – which we have discussed at length –, of the Alsace brand for tourism, of the mobility questions posed by road freight: any specificities that can be experienced well or badly, and which require appropriate answers. We believe that local actors have the capacity to achieve this, working according to their territory, at the service of the greatest good for the greatest number, within the Republican framework. This text now encourages them to seize their destiny, to equip themselves within the Republic with the tools and means of action that are useful and necessary for harmonious development. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-I groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the LaREM Group will vote for this text and invites you to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u76	[[Laurent Furst and Patrick Hetzel applaud]] Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u77	Ovation on Republican benches!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u78	He's unanimous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u79	The reading of the text of the Joint Joint Committee of 11 July offers us the opportunity to establish a stage point in the process of rebuilding Alsace which began the day after the creation of the Grand East region. This morning we are discussing the adoption of the law defining the powers of the European Community of Alsace. In my view, this law is first and foremost a symbol. The requirement of a law was one for the Alsatians and their local elected representatives. It is possible that we lost a lot of time during the parliamentary debate; We have sometimes spent energy on details, as was the case on the subject of appointments, and sometimes make the form take precedence over the substance. The drafting of this text is the result of a dialogue between the local authorities, the departmental councils of Bas-Rhin and Haut-Rhin, a little the Grand East Regional Council and the Government. In this process, the parliamentary debate took a long time but had little effect. I was surprised by some arbitrations, including in the Joint Joint Committee, such as the one relating to the calculation of the financial compensation linked to the transfer of the national roads and motorways not granted: I do not understand why, at the end of the process, some calculation rules were intended to be adjusted in favour of the future Alsatian community. In the light of the measures adopted, I conclude that the European Community of Alsace has only its own name. For everything else, it responds to the usual rules of dialogue between the State and communities, particularly in the area of transfer of powers. There's nothing innovative about this. [[Mr. Vincent Thiébaut applauds]] The essential thing is, however, except that it was necessary to restore to Alsace an institutional incarnation, a political representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u81	The aim was for Alsace to be able to live, for the Alsatians to feel represented, for them to want to contribute as citizens to the construction of a collective Alsatian project. That is why we will vote in favour of the text of the CMP, in which we have taken a reasonable part, as we have taken a reasonable position during the discussion. We will do everything possible to ensure that this shell gradually becomes a strong and committed tool in the service of the Alsatians.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u83	Today we are making the symbolic gesture of passing a law, but the hardest is to come for the state, with the drafting of decrees and ordinances. In my capacity as co-rapporteur for implementation, I will pay full attention to the creation of the eco-tax on the transit of heavy goods vehicles passing through Alsace via the north-south axis. Indeed, it represents one of the major issues in this text, as perhaps one of the failures of our parliamentary discussion, since we have referred the creation of taxation to an order – which is quite new. I will also pay attention to the work that local and regional authorities will have to do in terms of the convergence of their policies and administration: it would not be acceptable to wait for the 2021 departmental and regional elections to prepare for tomorrow's Alsatian administration. In 2021, the Alsatians will have to make a political choice that commits them to building the future of their region. Far from being an outcome, this text represents for Alsace a beginning. It could play the role of initiating a general effort to correct the imperfections of the territorial reform as it has been carried out so far, with the NOTRe law and the redistribution of regions – work that we must carry out as legislator. There is a proposal for a law that would come to the agenda in September, to allow the split of the EPCI "XXL" which have become too big. On this model, we should be able to denounce the difficulties of regions that would prove too large, in order to divide them to make them more effective and realistic. That is what I wish for Alsace.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u84	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u85	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IUD-I groups]] This law is therefore a beginning, and I will conclude by saying that I am happy to engage in the work that is opening up.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u86	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u87	Politics is the art of making what is necessary possible. In this case, what is necessary, even vital, is to make Alsace reborn. The creation of the European Community of Alsace – CEA – which we are going to vote for, is first of all the reparation of an injustice. It is also the recognition of historical specificity. But it is above all the renaissance of a region...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u88	Yes! A region!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u89	... who wants to take charge of his future, as well as play a leading and leading role in the integration of the European Union. First of all, for having made this renaissance possible, on my behalf, on behalf of the MODEM Group and above all on behalf of the Alsatians and Alsatians, I would like to sincerely thank the Presidents of the departments of Haut-Rhin and Bas-Rhin, who played a key role in this renaissance, Mrs Klinkert and Mr Bierry. I also thank Minister Jacqueline Gourault for her tact, commitment, consistency and daily attention to our territory, the rapporteur for his ability to slip very quickly into the skin of an Alsatian, his sense of diplomacy and his fine analysis, and of course all my colleagues who have fully invested themselves in the renaissance of Alsace. I will finally have a word for the Prime Minister who, noting that local actors were unable to agree, gave Alsace and the Alsatians their chance. I also welcome the adoption of many amendments, which are the result of a concerted effort with the Government and often of important cross-party compromises. Personally, I welcome the strengthening of competences related to bilingualism, in particular through my amendment to establish a strategic committee for German language teaching in Alsace, in its standard form but also in its dialectical variants. It was important to give substance to the future assembly of the European Community of Alsace. The designation of future elected representatives as "Alsace Councillors" will create an additional identification link between the citizen and his representatives. I thank the Democratic Movement, and particularly my esteemed colleague Sylvain Waserman, for his support for bilingualism and Alsatian territory. I have also taken note of the Government's commitments to further territorial differentiation, and I thank the Minister for that. The text that we are going to adopt gives Alsace more generally its identity and pride. It is a strong demand of citizens that local and national elected officials have been able to translate into law. While there are still points of frustration, some calling for the exit of the Great East and others for the creation of a special status on the model of Corsica, I prefer to see this text as a first step that will allow Alsace to reborn and prove itself. Once we have achieved results through our work, our hard work and our talent, it will be time to ask for new skills, with or, if necessary, outside the Great East.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u90	Outside!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u91	But the exit of the Great East is obviously not an end in itself. We must first respond, with our new skills, to the daily problems of our citizens. We need to improve their lives in concrete terms in terms of mobility, employment, health, international influence, language practice and innovation. This text is a real chance for Alsace, France and Europe. Tomorrow's Europe needs pioneers to try. Thanks to the Alsatians and the Alsatians, the European Community of Alsace will certainly be this pioneer who will make Alsace a prefiguration of what Europe could be in terms of integration, fiscal and social rapprochement, in terms of bilateral cooperation. Alsace is a launching ground for experimenting with and concretizing the Treaty of Aix la Chapelle: this region, which has been martyred and bent so long between France and Germany, a symbol of division and conflicts in Europe, can, after becoming the symbol of union and reconciliation, now become, with the CEA, the model of a new harmonisation and of a new European integration. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, LaREM, UDI-I and LR groups]] This bill is a real step forward for Alsace and the Alsatians, who look forward to its implementation on the ground. Let's not miss them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u92	It is not every day that we applaud a MODEM MP... We applaud the Alsatian!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u93	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u94	A Lorrain friend!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u95	We can leave you between you, if you want!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u96	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] I will repeat here what I said at the first reading of the text, recalling my esteem for my Alsatian colleagues and friends. We must remain to the right extent of the challenges ahead. I have great respect for the love of the country, but the most important is not the country in singular, but the love in plural, the universal love that we have for the Earth. So I can't resist the pleasure of quoting Gaël Faye once again: "Habiting means being fleshly melted in the topography of a place, the anfractuosity of the environment. » This man speaks from Rwanda, since the tragedies of Rwanda and migration, for all those whose identity is a tragedy. Each time we have to put the notions of identity, of limit, of borders, as we conceive them, in the stakes of the world. To do this, one must keep a fair measure. You did it when – I know as Lorrain, a resident of the Great East and a friend of Alsace – there was a lot of reason to be angry or even bitter. I am thinking of the wounds of history and the symbolic wounds that you have evoked, with a modesty to which I thank you. In the previous reading, I stressed that attachment to places should not distract us from attachment to ties. For my part, I believe in the bridges, the links of geography and history. Thus, the school of Nancy, present in public health but also in so many other forms of humanism at the frontiers of science, the arts and the social question, received a lot, after the Frankfurt Treaty, of the Alsatians, researchers, scientists and human rights activists who crossed the border and made Nancy a frontier city that lit up part of the twentieth century. It is in these mixtures and openings that we draw the best of ourselves. I have already cited the example of the wine of the Côtes de Toul, which owes both to the wines of Alsace and to the wines of Champagne, as well as to the links with the wines of Luxembourg and Germany.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u97	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u98	Once again, I believe that attachment to the places should not make us forget the importance of liaisons, reconciliations, of everything that, in a hybrid way, can allow us to combine our talents. Therefore, the text which the House will vote against us must not...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u99	Despite us?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u100	...despite the socialists, who will abstain,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u101	What a shame it was!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u102	...or a closing experimental law. Each time we have to ask ourselves how rooting in a place allows us to open up to the universal values of the Republic. If in 2015 – I assume it as a member of the old majority – we conducted a Gribouille policy, I do not believe that this can be corrected by another policy of the same type. Unfortunately, for reasons of circumstance for which no one here, not even on the bench of the Government, is totally responsible, it is still a policy of Gribouille that we are about to carry out. We do not have a compass that will allow us to know how to reconcile agility and equality. Lorraine, I simply say, has as many borders as Alsace. It has far more cross-border borders. Health issues, particularly in arbitrations with Luxembourg, arise more at home than in Alsace.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u103	Make a law for Lorraine!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u104	For transport infrastructure, the imbalance between Alsace and Lorraine is even greater. I had asked, Madam Minister, that we should at least make an appointment, for example during the Grenelle de la mobilité launched by your colleague Mrs Borne, so that, in due course, we could have on the Mosellan trail the same prerogatives as our Alsatian friends on the Rhine track. For all these reasons, we believe that, for lack of compass, this experiment is too chaotic and that it will not allow every territory to be at the rendezvous of the construction of neither a republic nor a universal, which continue to be lacking. Today, the people's cries are no longer "Vive l'Occitanie", "Vive l'Alsace" or "Vive la Normandie", but "Vive la Terre"! For Earth to live, we will need the talent and contribution of all territories, in a logic not of closure but of collaboration. Our abstention is not a sign of distrust towards our Alsatian friends.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u105	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u106	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] We will never choose between our sister Alsace and the Republic. We want to reconcile the two. It's a date we're making, I hope, for tomorrow. That is the sign that I am sending to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u107	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u108	With Olivier Becht, I am pleased that the Joint Joint Committee on the competences of the future European Community of Alsace has been able to reach an agreement. It is particularly pleased that it has decided to maintain the possibility for professional federations and sports leagues to organise themselves throughout the Alsatian territory, as proposed by an amendment from our group. It is with real satisfaction, therefore, that we welcome the text that you are proposing to us today. To be frank, in seventeen years of parliamentary life, I have rarely seen such a combination of good wills to respond to a request from a territory of the Republic. On 31 October 2017, when I called the President of the Republic at the Strasbourg prefecture, stressing the frustration of our fellow citizens after the disappearance of the Alsace region – what we now call the "desire of Alsace" – I did not expect us to be able to respond to it in such a short time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u109	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u110	I therefore salute with respect and gratitude your personal commitment, Madam Minister, under the authority of the Head of Government, to implement the conclusions of the Matignon Agreement. Of course, the European Community of Alsace has little to do with the project submitted to the referendum in 2013. Nor does it lead to the revision of the perimeter of the Grand Est region. But should we regret it? For my part, I do not believe in policies that write the future with solutions from the past. National representation has in its hands a resolutely new and innovative project. The future community finds its consistency in the extension of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, in its competence for cross-border cooperation and in its efforts to teach the language of the neighbour. It will also be a laboratory for experimenting with the principle of differentiation desired by the Head of State. Finally, it gives additional proximity to public decisions that affect people's daily lives, echoing a request from the big debate. Here is a concrete example. Two days ago, Mauritius, a resident of the commune of Châtenois, sent me a letter as follows: "Mr.Member, I would like to ask you about the increasing volume of trucks on the A35 motorway. Living in Châtenois for twenty years, I see the steady increase in the number of heavy goods vehicles using the A35. In my view, this traffic has three direct consequences for our environment: the degradation of air quality, the large number of accidents, and the deterioration of our roads. Many of these trucks are limited to transiting through our region without contributing to our economic activity. They use our infrastructure and pollute our environment without compensation. » Madam Minister, you can imagine that it is with real pleasure that I replied to Mauritius that the future European Community of Alsace will be able to tackle this question, since it will be able to transfer the management of national roads and motorways and will be able to experiment with a system for regulating the traffic of heavy goods vehicles. For once, it cannot be said that policies are powerless and do not concern themselves with local problems. That is also to say that the order to be produced by the Government is eagerly awaited. And, Mr Potier, I have no doubt that other territories will be asking in the future to take advantage of this possibility. After all, Alsace thus regained its vocation as a laboratory for the decentralization it had exercised when the State entrusted it with the management of regional express trains. This should also reassure those who persist in seeing in this text only an empty shell, whereas on the contrary it creates a common house for all Alsatians, endowed with unprecedented skills. [[Smile]] Before concluding, I will not forget to acknowledge the important work of Brigitte Klinkert and Frédéric Bierry, presidents of the two departmental councils, as well as the remarkable work done by our rapporteur. Mr Rebeyrotte, you have been able to listen to various opinions where emotion sometimes overwhelms reason. Similarly, while political parties by nature feed on divisions, you have brought partisan positions together towards a consensus point. Thank you for that. It was certainly not as complicated as the Treaty of Vienna, but it is to be welcomed that this task as rapporteur was once again entrusted to a talented Bourguignon. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I, LaREM and MODEM groups]] As you will understand, the independent IDU group will vote resolutely on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u111	Mr Sylvain Brial has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u112	If we inherited the passion for equality from the French Revolution, equality did not mean uniformity. It presupposes respect for all the peoples of France, the peoples of the overseas countries, the Corsican people, the Breton people and the Alsatian people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u114	In the referendum held on 7 April 2013, the Alsatians overwhelmingly approved the merger of their two departments. Unfortunately, this merger was impossible to achieve, because of the drastic conditions that were laid down. These conditions, I know them: in Wallis-et-Futuna territory, the legislative imbroglio blocks any change. The disappointment of the Alsatians did not stop there, since in 2015 their region was dissolved in the Greater East region. The territorial reform, designed on a corner, without consultation with local elected officials and citizens, has thus made an historic region disappear. In fact, the Council of Europe had denounced a democratic failure on the part of France during this redistribution. Since this double trauma, the Alsatian elected representatives have repeatedly stressed the need for the Alsatian population to find themselves in a community called Alsace, and to have a clean level that corresponds to its specificities. The creation of the European Community of Alsace is an initiative that will make this territory more identifiable, gain clarity and, ultimately, efficiency. However, and the Liberties and Territories group has already had the opportunity to say so at first reading, we were dreaming of another bill. We were mostly in favour of creating a community with both regional and departmental powers, in short, a territorial community with a particular status. That's no choice you've made. However, the creation of ECA does not mark the end of history, for the very essence of history is never to end. While we welcome this first step, undertaken by the Government in a logic of differentiation of the political organization of France, we consider that this progress is insufficient. The National Assembly and then the Joint Joint Committee abolished Article 3a of the text, on ecotax, in favour of a future order. Our group supported this article, introduced by the Senate, and even calls for the extension of this provision to other territories that wish to do so. We believe that public action, in order to be effective, must be carried out as closely as possible to territorial realities and must respect a principle of differentiation. If Brittany, a peninsular region, did not want the ecotax to be applied on its territory, it felt that it would penalise its economic production. The situation is not the same for border regions such as Alsace, which face significant international road traffic, with many negative externalities. In our view, giving the regions the opportunity to decide whether or not to introduce this tax was the right method to follow. On the other hand, as far as the teaching of regional languages is concerned, the Libertés et territoires Group has noted that your approach is in the right direction. Once again, however, you are not going to the end. I am talking about experience, while the teaching of the Wallisian and the Futunian is, in my view, a necessity. We doubt that the provisions you propose allow a considerable increase in the number of students in the bilingual course, given the difficulties currently encountered. In our view, it would be essential to generalize the provision of regional language education, following the model of what is practiced in Corsica. This would allow students to achieve equivalent proficiency in French and the regional language. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and LR groups. – Mr Olivier Becht also applauds]] For these reasons, the position of the members of the Libertés et Territoires Group will be divided between votes in favour of this text and abstention.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u115	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u116	I have heard colleagues say that the best beer is Alsatian: this seems a good starting point for my remarks. During the discussion of the draft law on new communes, my colleague and group president Jean-Luc Mélenchon explained that the right to differentiation led to a difference in rights and that adaptation to local particularities led to particularisms, which often led to forms of ethnicism. You apparently think that Alsace is different because it is a brewing region, whose beers are excellent. If we follow this reasoning, we will soon have to vote for a text creating the European or even intergalactic community of Nord Pas-de-Calais, a region which also has a certain know-how in this field. I even think our beers are much better than the Alsatians!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u117	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u118	And we must not forget the culinary products of Nord Pas-de-Calais, rich, interesting, anchored in a history and in peculiarities, not to mention the legendary warmth of the people of Nord Pas-de-Calais... In short, as you can see, this type of argument is far too ridiculous to be accepted – much less to justify a particular administrative organisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u119	The Communists were much better!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u120	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, we are in favour of decentralization, but it is not the same as differentiation. The spirit of decentralization is that the law guarantees that the Republic is indivisible, that the law is the same for all, even if it is adapted, applied "as close as possible to the territories", to take up an expression that you love. It is not a question of introducing specific laws for territories, as is the case today: we are creating a community that will have a particular law, with differences compared to other metropolitan communities – there are already specific features for the overseas, but well-founded.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u121	And the special status of Paris, does it bother you?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u122	Yes, the special status of Paris actually bothers me too, in part! Perhaps we could come up with points of agreement on this issue? However, since you are in favour of the development of local particularities and particularities, I doubt it. Several speakers referred to a transport problem, too many trucks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u123	One accident a day!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u124	I was in committee during the discussion on this point. It was the overbidding: "Alsace has one of the most important truck traffic in Europe", "accidents are daily", "you really have to act"... Particularism for particularism, should I remind you that the most important traffic in Europe is found on the A1 motorway around Lille, and that it causes some problems of air quality and 1700 deaths a year? To give Alsace the possibility of introducing a tax or any other provision to regulate traffic is not the right solution: if such measures are not applied throughout the border, traffic will mechanically deport itself to the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u125	You don't know the territory!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u126	I warmly invite you to come and discover Alsace.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u127	You won't stop the trucks like that – they'll go somewhere else, but they'll pass. Moreover, if the trucks pass through Alsace, it is precisely in order to avoid other devices. Creating bypasses – by the way, I would remind you that the great western bypass of Strasbourg will be in the hands of Vinci Autoroutes – does not solve the problems. [[Alain Bruneel applauds]] It is also clear how the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle and the NOTR law, among other measures, create free zones and extend them. These areas draw down social and environmental standards. For us, this is not acceptable given the importance of the issues. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR groups]] So yes, in the continuity of what we have said about the new communes, the NOTRE law, the CEA law or the right to differentiation that was provided for in the constitutional reform, the group La France insoumise will oppose this law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u128	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u129	I now call the text of the Joint Joint Committee. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first call on the House to take a decision on the amendment before me. I call Mr Rebeyrotte to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u130	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u131	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee as amended by the amendment just adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u132	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on the establishment of the National Sport Agency and on various provisions relating to the organisation of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024. (No 2181).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u133	Mr Stéphane Testé, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u134	Today we come to the final stage of the consideration of this bill on the establishment of the National Sport Agency and on the reserved routes for the 2024 Olympic Games. The Senate and then the National Assembly examined it in a very short time – it led my colleague the Senate to compare our work to a relay race. With these last strides in the sprint, after several dense and busy weeks, I hope we will cross the finish line. The Joint Joint Committee – CMP – which met two days ago was indeed concluded. She was able to propose a text on the provisions of the bill that remained under discussion, following fruitful discussions with the Senate rapporteur as well as with all members of the CMP. We are all familiar at this stage with the provisions of this text, which includes a component on the preparation of the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games and a component on the establishment of the National Sport Agency. This agency must form the framework for a collegial and shared sport governance, which involves the various actors. I shall therefore confine myself to briefly recalling the contributions of each assembly. The Senate, the first assembly seized, significantly enriched the text, in particular its Article 3 on the creation of the Agency, by introducing an entire chapter on the territorial organisation of sport governance, structured around the regional conferences of sport and the conferences of financiers. The Senate has also strengthened Parliament's previously insufficient monitoring and association capacity, including the appointment of two MPs and two Senators to the Agency's Board of Directors. These inputs have been very useful in completing the text. The Assembly, in turn, has made changes to the text before it, and first of all in order to further enhance the Agency's missions in the field of sport development for all, an essential task for us. We have also changed the composition of the regional sports conferences by providing for the presence of representatives of the resource, expertise and performance centres – CREPS – and of Members of Parliament and Senators. The Assembly has completed the purpose of the territorial sports projects drawn up by the regional conferences so that they also focus on preventing and combating violence and discrimination, which is a key issue for all of us, and on promoting commitment and volunteering. Another important step: the Assembly has provided that the Board of Directors of the National Sport Agency shall respect the principle of parity between women and men. This provision demonstrates our firm commitment to parity in a world of sport that needs to be further developed in this area. Finally, the Assembly removed the provisions introduced by the Senate which transferred to the National Sports Agency the assignment and training of sports technical advisers – CTS. This inappropriate provision would also have pre-empted the conclusions of the Minister's consultation a few weeks ago. The Joint Joint Committee was able to adopt a text which could receive the consent of both sides by taking back their respective contributions, subject to a few concessions on both sides. Compromise draftings were found with regard to the ordinance on reserved routes for the Games, on the one hand, concerning the process of defining these reserved routes and on the other hand, the association of the stakeholders, with the desire to minimise the constraints for users. With regard to Article 3, we have found common ground on all the provisions, including the conditions for the development of multi-year contracts for guidance and funding through regional sports conferences. With regard to the composition of these conferences and the presence of MPs and senators in them, we have chosen a more flexible wording in order to avoid cumbersome and complex nomination procedures. It is therefore anticipated that individuals who may contribute to the development of the territorial sport project will be able to participate in the conference subject to the agreement of the majority of members of the Legislative Assembly, which will allow Members and Senators to participate in the conference based on issues and needs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These are the main points of the Joint Committee's work. Let us hope that the discussions will enable us to adopt the resulting text in order to achieve a twofold objective: to prepare the 2024 Games in the best possible conditions and as soon as possible, and to implement the reform of the governance of sport, much expected by all players. On our marks, ready, let's vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u135	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u136	It is with as much joy as with solemnity that I express myself before you today. In a few minutes, ladies and gentlemen, you will decide on a text that accompanies the creation of a new sports model at the service of all the French. This new model, the President of the Republic, has wished in his programme for sport. It starts from the observation that the organisation of sport in France, inherited from the post-war period, is no longer adapted to the stakes of our society. The President also set an ambition to increase the number of regular practitioners in France by more than three million by 2024. To meet these challenges and develop sport for all, we needed a new model that brought profound change to French sport, according to an innovative territorial approach. After more than 18 months of consultation, we collectively wanted, in order to better meet the needs of the territories and the French, to institute a new, innovative, more agile and more open decision-making tool: the Agence nationale du sport. We also want a reinforced sports ministry that intervenes to secure, regulate and better support the players in sport. The aim is to ensure the protection and safety of athletes and their environment, as well as the integrity of our sports competitions. It is also a matter of deploying educational and sport development policies in a partnership with other ministries and with all those who contribute to the development of sport in the territories. I repeat: with this model, we do not reduce state intervention within the sports world. The State must be a catalyst of political will and act according to a logic of impulse and coordination. It must be where others cannot and do not want to go, and help actors to overcome each other. Finally, we call for the development of sports federations. They will assume greater responsibility and greater means will be dedicated to them. But they will also have to adapt to the changes in sports practice and to the new expectations of the French, and reposition themselves vis-à-vis their clubs and practitioners. They will have to spread the culture of innovation and digitalisation for the development of sports structures. There is also a need to strengthen their internal democracy and oversight mechanisms in terms of ethics and integrity, to place the club and the athlete at the heart of the mechanisms. In short, with this major turning point for French sport, we want to offer players the opportunity to adapt to the challenges of tomorrow. We do so with humility, recognizing the value of everyone and the previous actions of the Ministry of Sports, which, most of the time, have gone in the right direction. But we also do so with ambition and demand because progress is the fruit of both, and because we are aware of what sport brings to our society. This choice of transformation, we have done it with all the actors. He was praised by the federations and all elected associations. He was accompanied and supported by many representatives of the business world and businesses. With the parliamentarians, I see that the road was more winding. You have not always been involved in the consultation phase. I measured the impact of this on my arrival in the Government ten months ago, and I can only regret it. That is why I wanted to have an in-depth dialogue with you as part of the pre-figuration of this new model and the creation of the National Sport Agency. I had the opportunity to discuss this with some of you, and a few months ago I presented my roadmap for sport to the Committee on Cultural Affairs. You have also been able to interact with the teams that surround me on a daily basis. I also wanted you to be able to talk to Jean Castex, President of the Agency, and Frédéric Sanaur, who became his Director General. I believe deeply in this method. We will continue along this path, particularly in view of the future Sport Bill that will be considered in the first quarter of 2020. Until then, I hope that you will be able to be involved in the preparatory work so that we can build together a beautiful law for sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u137	Finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u138	As I have already had the opportunity to say, this law will, among other things, make it possible to continue the ongoing reform, particularly with regard to the governance of federations and the development of the practice of sport for all, but also of ethics and sports integrity. I come back to the bill that is before us today. It was essential that we could discuss these developments five years before the Games were hosted in 2024. Our exchanges have been rich and constructive. They allowed us to enrich the text collectively. I would particularly like to thank the rapporteur, Stéphane Testé, for all the work he has done on this text, within a fairly short time. I also thank the Chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs Bruno Studer – whom I congratulate on his re-election – for his support, as well as Stephanie Atger and Anne Brugnera for their careful follow-up on this text. First of all, your proposals have made it possible to consolidate Article 3, which establishes the National Sport Agency. The Agency is a new decision-making tool, in several ways. New because with the legal basis of a public interest group – IPG – decisions will be taken in a partnership way. Also new because it will benefit from shared funding, coordinated at the local level, at the service of citizens' projects. Finally, it will be new because it will be more agile and open to other actors who wish to participate in the implementation of public sports policies. The Agency's mission is to coordinate the sports policies of its members, in a spirit of consultation, mobilization and proximity – closeness through differentiation across territories, but also because we want to draw on existing good practices, make them known to the players in the sector and allow them to reproduce them elsewhere. Created on 24 April, the Agency is already in action around these two inseparable pillars, sport for all and high performance. Innovative programmes have already been launched and others will be decided next year. Be aware that the Agency will be attentive and demanding in the allocation of its funding to federations. It will give coherence to its actions decided collectively at national level and will leverage the financing of these actions at local level through sport projects in the territory. This bill is clearly part of this logic of complementarity. It allows above all to strengthen the role of the State within the Agency and establishes various obligations with regard to control and transparency. In addition to the constitutive agreement, the text provides for safeguards for the State, which are in line with the observations of the Council of State. It enshrines the convention of objectives between the Agency and the State, as well as a number of measures of transparency and financial control, using essential institutions such as the French Anti-Corruption Agency and the High Authority for the transparency of public life.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u140	In addition to State control, there is the necessary oversight by Parliament. I am naturally in favour of this from the outset, and I welcome the fact that you have provided additional and structural elements on this subject, by sanctifying the place of parliamentarians on the Agency's Board of Directors and by allowing their presence, if necessary, in the regional sports conferences. On the other hand, the Agency's activity report will be presented annually to Parliament in order to take stock of the agreement on objectives and financial aspects. Finally, beyond the law, it seems to me essential that parliamentarians act as relays to the Agency as well as to the ministry, in particular by making known the good practices observed in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u142	Another key contribution of parliamentarians, on the national level, is the establishment of gender parity on the Agency's Board of Directors. This is a major and indispensable decision, which will enter into force on 1 January 2020. It must be prolonged by a greater feminization of the entire sports ecosystem, in particular sports federations and their deconcentrated bodies. I hope that we can integrate it into the future Sport Act at the beginning of next year. At the territorial level, the challenge was to devote a shared governance logic to ensure the efficiency of our new model, as well as greater proximity to associations and citizens. This logic is fully reflected in the regional sports conferences and the finance conferences endorsed by the bill. Your proposals have made it possible, in accordance with the main principles of the law, to make the necessary adjustments to the missions of these conferences, their composition, combining all the diversity of actors, and the articulation between the different territorial levels. This approach was confirmed two days ago by the Joint Joint Committee, where balances were found, and I would like to thank you for that. On the basis of these principles, it is by order-in-council that it is necessary to specify the manner in which these arrangements are to be applied. This work, which must continue with the members of the Agency, will involve MPs and senators involved in sport governance, regardless of their political sensitivities. In addition to reforming the governance of sport, I turn to the other provisions of the text, which are part of the follow-up to the Olympic Act of March 2018. Indeed, articles 1, 2 and 4 of the bill also aim to prepare France for the 2024 Games as best as possible. Article 1 deals with routes reserved for the Olympic family. In accordance with the terms of reference of the International Olympic Committee – IOC – they will make it easier for athletes, officials, escorts and emergency and safety vehicles to travel. It is essential to ratify the March Ordinance as soon as possible on this point. Article 2 establishes an exceptional procedure for the settlement of disputes concerning prefectural decisions on planning, construction or planning in connection with the Games. The aim of this measure is to make every effort to deliver the new infrastructure built for the Games in a timely and timely manner. Both on this provision and on the previous one, we have managed together to preserve the balances established during the drafting of the bill, as perfectly demonstrated by your discussions in the Joint Joint Committee. Article 4, for its part, complements Article 17 of the Olympic Act. This provision, as passed by the Senate, pursues an objective of clarification. It makes it possible not to impose on the Olympic Games Organizing Committee a dual process of selection of its partners, in particular with regard to the issuance of titles of occupation in the public domain. You will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill is part of an ambitious public policy on the legacy of the 2024 Games – a lasting, social and supportive legacy. Whatever your sensitivity, you have the opportunity to adopt today a text that you have enriched, strengthened and balanced throughout the very rich debates that we have had together in recent weeks. Sport must be reflected in the daily lives of our fellow citizens, and I am convinced that what we are doing together today is in this direction. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I am pleased to have been able to discuss this bill with you, and I look forward to your support for the work that has already been done.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u143	In the general debate, Mr Alain Bruneel spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u144	The outcome of the Joint Joint Committee on this piece of legislation confirms the upheaval of the French sports model. It is with bitterness that I note that Parliament was once again completely set aside for the establishment of the National Sport Agency. By introducing it at the last moment into a bill on another subject, the Government has prevented any substantive reflection on the nature of the public service of sport that we want for our country. For the past two years, the reform of the governance of sport has been carried out in total vagueness, destabilizing the entire sports movement. We first learned about the plan to set up an agency by the press, and then last December, when we examined the 2019 finance bill, the majority decided to remove the National Centre for Sport Development – CNDS – by shifting its assigned taxes towards the future structure, when we knew neither its missions nor its composition. This amateurism was again manifested with the creation of the Agency in the form of a public interest grouping. The Council of State has clearly demonstrated that the structure of the Agency does not correspond to the IPTF as defined by law, since the State is for the time being the sole financier among the co-decision-makers. Finally, in order to give the Agency a legal basis, the Government has decided cavalierly to introduce it into a bill that has nothing to do with it. Parliament is not just a registration chamber that has to be subjected to the government's trial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u145	And yet...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u146	In substance, the Communist deputies also did not support its creation. The local authorities and the sports movement must obviously be closely associated with our country's sports policies. However, it is not by weakening the role of the State that we will increase the capacity of other actors to act. On the contrary, the state must regain its central position, reconnect with ambitious sports policies and find legislative tools to break down barriers to practice, for example. In the middle, the future of the Ministry of Sport is being played out. The Agency shall replace it in the performance of its main tasks, namely the development of sport for all and support at the high level. Its administration is very weakened and its deconcentrated services, in particular, no longer have the autonomy to carry out their missions. As for his resources, they are famelic, after two years of drastic reduction in his budget. The gradual transformation of the Ministry of Sports into a single direction of sports is a serious strategic mistake. Sport is a public service in its own right, which needs a ministry that sets out the main lines and is a guarantor of the general interest. Without the Ministry of Sports, the small federations would be even more in difficulty, and France could not have led the battle it had waged for ethics and against doping. Without its officials, our performance at major sporting events would be poor. The Government's willingness to transfer sports technical advisers to federations is merely a translation of this disengagement. By depriving itself of public officials deploying public sports policies throughout the country, the executive definitively endorses the disappearance of these policies. Can we imagine for a second the cultural public policies thus abandoned? Why should such treatment be given to sport, when one knows its benefits and its values, carried by the millions of volunteers and employees whose daily ambition is to give access to sports practice to as many people as possible? Communist MPs will support the ratification of the ordinances in order to best prepare for the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games. With regard to reserved lanes, we welcome the fact that the drafting of the Senate has been retained, since it states that the commissioning of these lanes must be strictly proportionate to the objectives of safety and fluidity. Indeed, the impact on local populations must be as low as possible, with reserved lanes most often located in areas with already extremely dense traffic. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Finally, we call on the Government to ratify the two ordinances of December 2018 and March 2019 on the fight against doping and compliance with the World Anti-Doping Code as soon as they enter the country. This is a sine qua non for hosting the Olympic and Paralympic Games, and I regret that Marie-George Buffet's amendment allowing this ratification could not be discussed at first reading. This is about the credibility of France, which has always been a pioneer in the anti-doping struggle. [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches]] If we support the ratification of the ordinances on the organization of the Olympic and Paralympic Games, we will not be able to vote in favour of this text consolidating the National Sport Agency. The Communist deputies called on the Government to start with Parliament a substantive work on the future of the public service of sport, leading, finally, to an ambitious law that consolidated it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u147	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u148	On July 23, we had the pleasure of having a joint joint committee concluded in the context of the bill on the establishment of the National Sport Agency and various provisions relating to the organization of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024. We can be satisfied with this conclusion, which is the result of a quality exchange between MPs and senators. I also welcome the joint work of the minister, the rapporteur and the administration, which has resulted, in a constrained framework, in a bill that is in the interest of all in the preparations for the Olympic and Paralympic Games 2024. As we recall, sport is an important vector of inclusion values. It allows our nation to take shape, giving each one examples of journeys. In five years' time, France will host the largest sporting event in the world: this event represents a magnificent economic opportunity for our country, along with an acceleration of modernization and development without comparison for the territories. In order to fully measure the impact of this major event, it was necessary to provide an appropriate legal framework. That is why this bill that we have to vote on is part of a broader legislative framework, between two other structural bills: on the one hand, the Act of 26 March 2018 on the organization of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024, and on the other hand, the future Sport and Society Bill, expected in 2020. First of all, this bill authorizes the ratification of the reserved lanes and traffic police order of March 20, 2019 for the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024. The creation of travel routes for delegations and athletes is an imperative. The second part of the bill allows us to sustainably strengthen our sport model to take full advantage of the opportunity offered by these Games, by establishing the National Sport Agency. This agency is part of a long time and promotes a new governance model for French sport. After a broad consultation, it devotes, thanks to its IPTF status, a more flexible and truly collegial operation. This will enable all players in sport policy to share decisions, adapting as much as possible to local specificities. They were all waiting for this remarkable and historic progress. Successive reviews of the text have been demanding in the search for effective and balanced governance. An amendment providing for equal representation of women and men on the Agency's Board of Directors as from 1 January 2020 was thus adopted, the result of the fight against under-representation of women in sport. Finally, Parliament has been able to remain attentive to the real control of the State over the development and implementation of sports policy. Parliamentarians will serve on the Agency's board of directors, and control tools, such as the signing of target agreements with the state or the presence of a government commissioner, will also help to ensure this control. This text, the result of an agreement, ensures the balance that the governance of French sport needs. It sets the stage for a successful organization of the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games and makes sport possible for all. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and IUD-I groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is for all these reasons, and above all for the ambition that it carries, that the La République group on the move will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u149	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u150	Sport transcends everything, fears, differences and even political parties: that is to say! This is evident from the agreement reached by the Joint Joint Committee on this text establishing the National Sport Agency. With a view to the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris in 2024, France has a responsibility to make this event of global resonance a success. The Government and its majority will be accountable to the French for the means and tools deployed to win our athletes. In this context, the concluding CMP sends a strong signal of our common and trans-party will to transform the Olympic Games test, despite some continuing concerns. I welcome the wording of Article 1, which restores that of the Senate, stating that the length of the routes reserved for the Olympic Games must be proportionate to the objectives of safety and fluidity. Indeed, as I say and say again, we must already anticipate the many difficulties that they will cause for those who have no choice but to take their car to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u151	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u152	We will have to face this situation without dogmatism and, in five years' time, give priority to dialogue, without which it will not be able to have popular support. Indeed, if Paris were to turn into a magnificent castle, the Olympic Games would be cut off from the indispensable popular joy. There is also a need to strengthen dialogue in this House, Madam Minister, including with the opposition, as your predecessor did in his time. Because sport doesn't belong to anyone, it's everyone's business. That's why the Republican Group's commitment is focused on strengthening access to sports practice for all. Nevertheless, this text still raises many questions, which we must look at in the face. First of all on the method: this text is actually only part of your reform, since, as you said, another bill is expected in 2020. This calendar is a sign of great haste and of the absence of a global vision that can only undermine any form of coherence, which is always desirable. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, month after month, you reject our texts on the grounds that they are incomplete and that we must wait for a structuring bill. You are demonstrating today that you are able to say and do the opposite. Secondly, the substance of the text also raises questions, and the establishment of the National Sport Agency leaves many doubts. So, what about the future of the sports ministry? While we hear the reasons behind the creation of the Agency, namely the double recognition of the shortcomings in the functioning of the CNDS and the lack of a suitable tool to develop high-performance sports, as well as the need to involve all stakeholders through increased collegiality, Article 3 raises the question of the future of national sport policy. Indeed, the National Sports Agency will have wide autonomy, despite a convention of objectives and means and the double vote of the State on certain subjects, and will receive two of the most important competences of the Ministry of Sport. The question is therefore asked: what future for this ministry and for the policy of the state? Will the ministry tomorrow be an empty shell to make mere representation? I ask you the question, Madam Minister: will you be the last sports minister in the Fifth Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u153	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u154	Then what about the fight against discrimination in sport? Engaged against homophobic acts and supporters of a proactive policy to contain them, I wanted to explicitly include this priority in the Agency's missions. For the time being, I have not been heard, which I regret. What about the Agency's funding? It is not up to the stakes, since the financial resources will be closer to 300 million euros than the 350 million initially mentioned, even though the sports movement was asking to increase the effort to 400 million. What, finally, are sports technical advisers, mobilized for their future and which the Senate had integrated into the Agency? The National Assembly has abolished this incorporation, despite our warnings. I reiterate my support here and call on you, Madam Minister, to finally hear them. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and SOC groups]] For all these reasons, the Republican Group will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u155	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u156	We are at the end of the legislative process for the consideration in each chamber of Parliament of the bill on the establishment of the National Sport Agency and various provisions relating to the organization of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024. The Joint Joint Committee which met this Tuesday has, in our view, produced a satisfactory text in that it preserves the essential provisions on which this House has managed to reach agreement at a meeting. First, article 1 deals with the issues of traffic in the Paris region at the major event of the organisation of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024. The MODEM group had the opportunity to express its views on this issue by asking that the provisions of these ordinances have as little effect as possible on the already difficult movement of the Francilians. Compromise drafting seems to us to be a step in this direction, providing for a period of time during which the tracks will be put into service "in proportion to the objectives of safety and fluidity". Article 3 is the one that holds our most attention to the extent that it marks a major inflection in our country's sports policy. We have heard the concerns and reservations, and we have them ourselves, but we believe that this is a necessary and essential step. The purpose of this bill is not, however, to address the whole issue of public sport policies, but to create an institutional framework conducive to their future development. This means that we cannot stay there and look forward to the sports policy text announced by the Minister for the January re-entry. This will be an opportunity for this House to debate this very important subject in order, hopefully, to promote the widest possible practice of sports activity and to prepare calmly for the Olympic deadline. Until then, the thorny subjects must have been cleared. All the groups shared the concern about the future of the sports technical advisers. Clearly, the wording proposed by the Senate could not be approved by the Assembly. In this regard, we have noted the appointments set by the Minister in the fall, in particular the submission of a report that will enable proposals to be made in a timely manner. The other important issue will be the means of this agency, on which the ambition that we can have in sport will depend. We know your commitment, Minister, and we will support you in this fight during the budget debates. For the rest, as we have already expressed in committee and then in session, we are pleased that our proposal to complement the missions of future regional sports conferences will be retained in order to make sport a practice without violence or discrimination. This proposal had received the agreement of all groups, but it was important that senators take it, which they did. The question of the presence of parliamentarians at the various levels of consultation of the Agency also seems to us to have been resolved in a relevant way, and we welcome this consensus. While the presence of parliamentarians within the National Sport Agency makes sense, this is not the case at regional conferences, which must remain the responsibility of local elected representatives. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, LaREM and IUD-I groups]] This successful text will provide a solid basis for pursuing this dual objective of preparing for the Games and developing, in this context but not only, an ambitious public policy on sport. We thank the rapporteur for the collaborative work that he has done and that was appreciated. For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u157	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u158	This morning, on the last day of the special session, we meet to discuss the Joint Joint Committee's conclusions on the establishment of the National Sport Agency and the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024. We welcome the progress made in CMP towards greater coherence between territorial sports projects and state public policies. In fact, the draft law initially merely provided that the National Sports Agency would ensure consistency between territorial sports projects and federation sports projects. However, it is not this consistency that must be of concern to us: as I said in the sitting, there can be as many sports projects as federations. On the other hand, we must be concerned about consistency with the public policies decided by the State. I am pleased to see the amendment incorporated into the text, which was not voted on at the meeting, which aims to enable the regional sports conferences to establish a territorial sport project consistent with the national guidelines set out in the Convention signed between the National Sport Agency and the State. Unfortunately, the Joint Joint Committee's conclusions are also a step backwards in terms of Parliament's monitoring of the Agency's territorial declines. The Assembly had unanimously adopted one of my amendments, which tended to allow representatives of the National Assembly and the Senate to sit in regional sports conferences. As the Senate has not retained this provision, parliamentarians will not be present in these conferences except on an exceptional basis, as qualified personalities, under certain conditions. Similarly, they will not be invited to attend finance conferences. Parliamentarians will therefore be excluded from the territorial variations of the National Sport Agency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u159	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u160	However, unlike senators, we see ourselves as national as well as local elected officials, and we want to preserve our territorial anchor by continuing to focus on regional and territorial issues. Minister, you are proposing a specific bill for sport in 2020. It would have allowed us to debate the organisation of sport, and more broadly an ambitious vision for this sector. The establishment of a National Sport Agency is not simply a technical measure. You yourself acknowledged this by stating that the Government's objective was to transform the French sport model in depth. This fundamental public debate cannot be divided into several texts. It is expected to take place in the first quarter of 2020 during the review of this next text. The National Sports Agency is a fragile entity, from a legal point of view, since you have chosen to make it a largely derogatory public interest group, as the Council of State has pointed out. You are therefore asking Parliament, by passing this bill, to ensure the legal existence of an agency created by ministerial order. The hierarchy of norms is reversed. It is in a sense Parliament to approve an administrative decision that has already been taken. Moreover, we have not obtained any guarantee as to the financial means provided to ensure the Agency's sustainability. We have asked you in vain, on all these banks, for a financial and budgetary projection that will reassure us. You have transferred to the National Sports Agency the ability to sign objective agreements with the federations as well as two of the most important competences, high-level sport and the development of access to sport practice. This transmission to an agency that enjoys wide autonomy raises the question of the future of the Ministry of Sports, as Maxime Minot said. The National Sport Agency must remain an operator at the service of the Ministry, which must retain its decision-making power.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u161	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u162	Maxime Minot recalled the many uncertainties surrounding the creation of the National Sport Agency, but I will only mention one of them, concerning the sports technical advisers. You had decided to put the reform in brackets to ease tensions, but we are now learning that an interdepartmental meeting will be held today to organize, at the budgetary level, the transfer of STCs from programme 124 "Conducting and supporting health, social, sport, youth and associative life policies" to programme 219 "Sport". In this way, Madam Minister, you are embarking on a major reform of human resources, and in catini, which does not reassure us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u163	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u164	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] It announces the gradual transfer of officials from the Ministry of Sports to the Ministry of National Education and Youth, by 2020 or 2021, thus prefiguring the disappearance of the Ministry of Sports.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u165	We're worried!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u166	[[Applause on the SOC, GDR, FI and LR benches]] For all these reasons, Socialist and related Members will vote against the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u167	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u168	In 2024, Paris, and with it France, will host the Olympic and Paralympic Games, a hundred years after having received them for the last time. The organization of the world's largest event offers us a tremendous opportunity to demonstrate our expertise. The Games are an unparalleled showcase for Paris and France. Paris has chosen to organise Games that are not expensive, making maximum use of existing infrastructures. A point of honour is also being made for them to take place in the best way possible to preserve the environment, which will be a sine qua non for their success. Since the application phase, Paris 2024 has been designed to be a factor in the acceleration of public policies and to leave a legacy both material and immaterial. That is why we have a strong responsibility to ensure the conditions for an optimal organisation and to transform our sport model. This is the object of the order which must be ratified, aimed at facilitating the circulation in Paris of vehicles mobilized for the organization of the Games and of the emergency and safety cars. This exceptional measure bears witness, if necessary, to the problems posed by Parisian and metropolitan traffic. Moreover, the challenge is not so much to fluidise traffic as to combat pollution in order to preserve public health. The 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games cannot be planned without modernizing the French sport model. This is the ambition of this bill, which aims not only to create an additional agency but also to rethink the public policies of sport, especially since the Agency will replace the national centre for the development of sport and gradually replace the Ministry of Sport. This bill is therefore consistent with our motion for a resolution to streamline all State entities that are multiplying and undermining a substantial part of our public finances. Sport is an economy but also a powerful vehicle for emancipation, allowing for the transmission of educational values and virtues. Fighting for equality between men and women also involves sport. To convince yourself, it is enough to measure the scale of the fervour that took our compatriots to the women's football world cup, gathering several million French people behind their television stations to support our blues. Our group is also very attached to the concept of healthy sport, which can materialize through prescription of sport by prescription, a practice that is developing. In addition, healthy sport allows us to promote exercise in companies through the development of working time schedules for sports practice. Everyone wins. An employee may engage in a sports discipline that is beneficial to his or her health and the employer is seeing work stoppages decrease. It's simply a public health issue! Sport is a driving force behind the revitalization of our territories and we must ask ourselves the question of the financing of amateur sport, which is largely taken over by local and regional authorities at the end of the breath. The Sport bill that we will have a chance to debate early next year will be an opportunity to reflect on it. I will conclude with two questions that we have not received a clear answer to, Minister. First of all, what resources will be allocated to the National Sport Agency? It would be a mistake not to provide it with sufficient resources to carry out its tasks. It would be above all to admit that this reform is only a budgetary one. Secondly, what about the sustainability of the Agency's legal regime since, according to the Council of State, the status of a public interest grouping is not appropriate? [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I and LaREM group]] Nevertheless, the IDU and independent group supports the creation of this agency which reflects a desire to change paradigm in sport policies. It is a necessity for the development of amateur sport and for the success of our Olympic and Paralympic Games.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u169	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u170	Mr Sylvain Brial has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u171	Our country can be proud to welcome once again a major sporting and cultural event. The Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024 are the success of a long-term organization and commitment. They will attract the world's greatest athletes and this magnificent showcase will bring visitors from all over the world. Various public policies will be pursued on this occasion in the areas of spatial planning, transport or health. However, we must not forget the rural and ultra-marine territories. The latter have just given us a splendid party at the Pacific Games. I want to take this moment to congratulate our champions in Polynesia, New Caledonia and, of course, Wallis-et-Futuna, on this beautiful medal collection. The legacy of the Olympic Games must benefit all our territories, even those who do not have the chance to receive the Games. As our co-chair, Bertrand Pancher, said at first reading, the first two sections of this bill do not pose any particular problems. They will facilitate traffic and secure traffic routes during the Games. The Libertés et Territoires Group welcomes the fact that the Joint Joint Committee has taken over the drafting of the Senate: indeed, the limitation of this mechanism over time and the proportionate activation of reserved channels seem to us to be good progress. However, section 3 of this bill, which recognizes the creation of the National Sport Agency, continues to be a problem for us. On the other hand, our group once again deplores the method used by the Government, which deprives Parliament of the necessary prior consultation on the future of our sport model.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u172	And that's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u173	Yes, it shows that there is a problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u174	[[Smile]] He should have come in kimono!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u175	The referrals filed with the Council of State by two organizations of Inspectors General, a few days before the examination of the text, were rejected. However, we await his response on the merits, the very existence of which indicates that there is still disagreement on the method used, including within the Ministry of Sport. Our group takes note of the Government's decision. However, it remains dubative on several points. First, was giving the Agency the legal status of a public interest grouping the most relevant choice, when the Council of State itself regretted that several features concerning the Agency's resources derogated from the general status of IPTFs? Moreover, they are not intended to be entrusted with the implementation of a national public policy. The National Sports Agency, which will absorb the National Centre for the Development of Sport, will also be responsible for the management of high performance projects. By concentrating all the powers in the hands of a few people, don't you risk creating a hegemonic pole? Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to the objective of developing sports practice. Territorial inequalities in access to sport remain numerous, especially outside the major cities, and the Agency will not be able to deal with them alone. However, I welcome the amendments made by the two chambers to the text to promote the territorial declination of the arrangements: a regional sports conference will be set up in each region and responsible for establishing a territorial sport project. But how can we ensure that the ambition of sports policy is the same everywhere? Despite some progress, doubts remain about the Agency's role in the territories. Thus, the means allocated to him are less than the initial promises. However, we all know that, without sufficient resources, it will not be able to achieve the objectives set. Finally, the Libertés et territoires group remains involved in the defence of sports technical advisers. While consultations are under way, the President of the Republic seems determined to second these 1600 officials to the sports federations, which suggests that he has already taken on their future. For all these reasons, the majority of our group will abstain...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u176	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u177	[[Applause on the benches of the LT, LR and GDR groups]] ...because this text is not up to the stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u178	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u179	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u180	If I understand correctly, we are about to validate the existence of the National Sports Agency, already created by decree. Unless I was mistaken, it was a novelty: I did not know that the decrees had to be controlled by the National Assembly. I hope that this will not become a habit, we already have enough work here without the need to add more.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u181	Oh! Fainting!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u182	Minister, you said you wanted to put in place a French "new sport model". What an ambition! It's beautiful. However, I found in your speech the same key words as those already used about the National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories: "more agile", "more open", "territories", "innovation" and "digital", "ambitiousness coupled with the requirement" to "put actors at the heart of the system"...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u183	That is the coherence of our action!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u184	I am not saying this against you, because you can't do much, but I am quite tired of these texts where we change the central word – Agency for the cohesion of territories, sport, biodiversity or whatever you want – while repeating the same speech duplicated to infinity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u185	That's what you do, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u186	The new sports model you say you are putting in place is in fact old: it is the new public management model, which you decline in all areas. I have already talked a lot about this in the debate on the Public Service Transformation Bill and the Justice Reform and Programming Bill. These texts dispossess ministries with certain powers to entrust them to agencies, a little more independent but also more porous to private economic interests...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u187	It's the start-up nation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u188	...to better abandon these skills in the long term. We are told that the state must focus on its strategist missions and give up being an actor state responsible for carrying out public policies in practice. The same logic is at work here. [["We too! » on the benches of the LR group]] Speaking of which, I'm sick of the agencies. National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories in a recent proposal for an ad hoc law, National Agency for Labour of General Interest in the law of programming for justice... I found the complete list in the yellow budget of the state operators: Agence nationale pour la formation professionnelle des adultes, Agence nationale pour l'amélioration des conditions de travail, Agence française pour la biodiversité, agencies régionales de santé – since even health has been "arranged"! –, National Frequency Agency, National Habitat Agency, National Social Housing Control Agency...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u189	It was before this legislature!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u190	Furnish! Furnish! You have nothing to say!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u191	Overseas Agency for Mobility, Service and Payment Agency, Civil Security Digital Agency, Civic Service Agency, National Research Agency, National Agency for Radioactive Waste Management...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u192	Real estate agencies, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u193	I do not need to quote them all to show that you are part of a more general political logic. What you are proposing is not innovative at all: far from being a new model, it is the one we have known for decades.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u194	And it's very expensive!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u195	This list could include observatories, offices, institutions, funds, institutes, centres, companies, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u196	And France is insoubted!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u197	The existence of these institutions, combined with the new Civil Service Act, makes it possible to hire only contract workers, mercenaries instead of civil servants. This is your overall political project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u198	A little respect! Unsubstantiated does not mean disrespectful.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u199	And if we only have to talk about sport, I keep in mind the 26% reduction in the CNDS budget. On the question of sports technical advisers, during the discussion of the draft law on the transformation of the civil service, the Joint Joint Commission reached an agreement to avoid immediate dismantling. But the STCs know what's hanging on their noses. They know this will happen, because that's the meaning of the story you're writing. This text finally bears witness to a very low ambition for sport. Alain Bruneel mentioned this before me: in the run-up to the Olympic Games, we should play a leading role in the fight against doping, and ratify the ordinance on the World Anti-Doping Code rather than validate orders. But on this subject, there is less ease, less precipitation... That's a shame, because the stakes are still important. Under your predecessor, Madam Minister, we discussed here the bill of our colleague from the IUD-I group, Michel Zumkeller, which was intended to tax transfers of professional athletes to finance amateur sport. François Ruffin had worn a football jersey on that occasion, to raise awareness about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u200	[[Smile]] I don't remember!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u201	Where are we today on the financing of amateur sport? The credits are down, that's the reality! You can always "innovate", create agencies "to the closest to the ground" that are "more open" and show "flexibility" – oh, sorry, you said "agility"! You'll have to think about flexibility, next time... [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and LR groups]] In reality, you are destroying the French sports model inherited from the post-war period, in which the public power was manoeuvring, this model that allowed us to have high-performance athletes thanks to a pyramid structure whose base was strong enough for the peak to be effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u202	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u203	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-25-E1021.u204	The President received from the Prime Minister a communication of the decree of the President of the Republic closing the special session. [["Congratulation! » and applause on all benches]] Accordingly, the closure of the special session is noted. The meeting is adjourned. I wish you a happy holiday!
