ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u1	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u2	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u3	The next item is the discussion, for final reading, of the draft finance law for 2020 (No. 2542, 2543).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u5	Please accept my apologies for these moments of delay. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, LR, MODEM, SOC, UDI-Agir, GDR and LT]] Mr General, this is your last day in this office.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u6	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u7	[[Laughs]] Allow me to thank you for the work you have done, in a friendly, almost emotional, serious and demanding manner, with the Government. I have learned a great deal from you and will be very happy to continue working with you, whatever the circumstances, in the aftermath of this third budget. Since love lasts three years, it was normal for us to separate in this way. All the good things have an end, and the budget marathon that we are finishing this morning is no exception to the rule. After more than three months of intense parliamentary debates, which hide many meetings and important work ahead, for parliamentarians, for the services of the National Assembly, which I would like to thank, and for those placed under my authority or that of the Minister of Economy and Finance, for our respective cabinets, perhaps even for the ministers, the final reading of the finance bill for 2020 is an opportunity to revisit the main elements of France's budget, the adoption of which is a solemn moment. Mr Bruno Le Maire and I had the honour to present to you, together with our colleagues Agnès Pannier-Runacher, Olivier Dussopt and Cédric O, a budget of commitments and tax cuts in line with the commitments of the President of the Republic and the parliamentary majority, taken in particular at the end of the great national debate following the social crisis known as the "yellow vests". With this budget, we are continuing our policy of restoring household purchasing power and competitiveness to businesses. It is consistent with and complements our first and second budgets, those of 2018 and 2019. We are encouraged by the very positive and concrete results we achieve – again this morning, newspapers report this success, including the increase in purchasing power. We are giving back purchasing power to our fellow citizens by reducing the income tax by EUR 5 billion, which will be visible from at least January, thanks to the reform of the levy at source. Our will that work pays is not just a speech; This is a fact, which is reflected in the measures we are taking, and the parliamentary majority can be proud of it. The definitive removal of the housing tax on the principal residence for 80% of French citizens from next year and for the remaining 20% in 2023, and its replacement by a new local tax adapted to today's economy, without any tax increase, is a historic measure. Since the French Revolution, no Government had abolished a tax of more than 20 billion euros without replacing it with another. Thus, on average, 723 euros of purchasing power will be returned to our citizens. We have thus modernized local taxation. The National Assembly has worked very hard with Olivier Dussopt and myself to achieve this. This is a very important moment. We are also continuing the reduction in corporate tax promoted by the Minister of Economy and Finance: the rate will be 31 per cent for companies with a turnover of more than 250 million euros and 28 per cent for all others. The reduction in taxes is historic, the course is maintained, including in budgetary terms. In this area, we are honouring our commitments. I would like to take this opportunity to share with you some very good news in terms of budget implementation: we will keep the commitments on deficit and spending and we will defrost a very large part of the appropriations of the departments in the coming days. The appropriations devoted to public policies which we wish to put forward in particular also reflect the fulfilment of the commitments of the President of the Republic and the majority: the ecological transition, the regal missions, work and social. The debate on the whole text is probably fresh enough in everyone's mind so that it is not necessary to go back to the details. I would like to thank the National Assembly. The opposition has tabled many amendments, perhaps more accepted by the majority and the Government than in previous years. We have also worked well with the Senate to supplement the text. I would like to thank everyone for their constructive spirit, in particular, this is a very important point, with regard to the fight against tax fraud, an area where many major provisions have been adopted in this text, in particular against VAT fraud on digital platforms. Section 57 of the Finance Bill was also the occasion for a societal debate. I note that the Senate, the House of Local Authorities, did not wish to delete Article 5, on local tax reform. He changed it, tried to improve it and sometimes procrastinated a little. What, no doubt, was the reform proposed by the Government, which combined tax cuts and improvements in the lives of local communities, the right solution. I welcome the Members who have been particularly invested in committee, in particular the Special Rapporteurs: Mrs Christine Pires Beaune, who, on local authorities and tax advisers, has made a decisive contribution to our text, Mr Xavier Roseren, Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, in particular with regard to local authorities, or Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, Mr Charles de Courson and Mr Fabien Roussel, who, together with the rapporteur-general and the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, have worked extensively on tax fraud. We will be able to continue this work on the basis of the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors in its report on fraud against compulsory levies, which it submitted following the announcements by the President of the Republic. I extend special thanks to the MODEM and LaREM groups, as well as to Mr. Jean-Paul Mattei and Mrs. Émilie Cariou, for their important work in coordinating with the Government. Finally, the rapporteur-general, I welcome the work of your successor, Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, to bring about, once again, the abolition of small taxes. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] I am very happy, just a few days from the holidays of the year, to finish with this budget. Like everyone, during the few hours of well-deserved rest, I will be attentive to the decisions of the Constitutional Council and will be delighted to find you, as early as 2 January – on 1 January, we must know how to stop – in order to prepare the budget for the year 2021 and thus to keep, for the pleasure and happiness of our people, the promises of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u8	[[Members of the LaREM, LR, MODEM, SOC, UDI-Agir, LT and GDR groups, as well as the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, rise and applaud at length. – "Congratulation" on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is with great pleasure that I give the floor, for the last time as rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, thanking him, with your applause, for his commitment, his competence and his legendary good mood, to Mr Joël Giraud.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u9	[[Laughs]] It happened to me that I didn't like being applauded too much – reminding him, I expected to be booed – but this morning I'm making an exception. The review of the Finance Bill for 2020 ends this morning with its final reading. The Committee on Finance has just met and voted in favour of its adoption. It had before it the text that we had adopted here and that was rejected by the Senate. Everything has been said, every detail of its content has been debated; So I won't come back. As you said, Mr Minister, the final reading has a special flavour for me, since this is the last time I speak in the gallery as rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance. I have tried to hold this office in accordance with the principles which I believe are fundamentally attached to it, and I have tried never to depart from it: the protection of Parliament's prerogatives, first of all; respect for all oppositions; the support of the Government's fiscal and fiscal policy, a constant and lucid support, which must be supported by expertise and never be blind, under penalty of weakening us collectively. I believe, in short, that the rapporteur-general is a parliamentarian who must combine loyalty and demand. He must show loyalty to his fellow Members when, on all sides, they put forward ideas: they must be studied and the extent to which they can be given a chance to be included in the legislation. The rapporteur-general must, however, be demanding as to the political legitimacy and budgetary seriousness of the proposed amendments. On this subject, my unfavorable opinions have struck many times, but, as far as possible – that is, when there was no avalanche of amendments – I have always motivated my decisions. Parliamentary time sometimes accelerates. As we have seen, it is not always possible to discuss every amendment in detail, but my door has always been open to explain, if necessary after the fact, the reasons for my position or that of the Committee on Finance. [["Ah! »]] The rapporteur-general must also show loyalty to the Government, I repeat. It must assume responsibility for being at the interface of the Government and Parliament in the budgetary process. It is therefore important that relations with ministers be fluid, frank and mutually respectful. In this capacity, I had the pleasure of maintaining the best relations with the ministers who built and debated the budget with us: Bruno Le Maire, Agnès Pannier-Runacher, Olivier Dussopt, Cédric O and Gérald Darmanin, whose presence I like to emphasize because we have had very strong personal relations. I dare to say that because I am one of those for whom it is very important, and I believe that this is also the case with the minister. I also want to congratulate the teams of their offices, who have sometimes had to stand up to me, including when I was in a bad mood – which happens to me more often than my natural bonhomie hides it... [[Smile]] As a mirror of this loyalty, my demand for the Government has never weakened. We must ask him for all the necessary explanations and know how to take the risk of defending certain positions of Members who, at first, are different from his. The Government sometimes goes too far in the exercise of its prerogatives, including some last-minute amendments. Then he has to be held accountable. He may also welcome some parliamentary initiatives with a little too caution, and we must then put his weight in the balance – mine is quite important – and negotiate. This can lead to tensions, or even a few yelling at sweeping meetings, but also to beautiful parliamentary moments, and I am pleased to have had some of them with you. Any resemblance to a recent debate on war widows is purely fortuitous... Loyalty and demand are finally required vis-à-vis the institution of the National Assembly. It is important to respect the rules of the parliamentary debate, to accept the application of constitutional and organic principles – I am of course thinking of Rule 40, Mr President of the Finance Committee, but also of the sometimes complex rules of placing first or second part of the PLF. I have been committed to protecting the integrity of the parliamentary debate by respecting these rules unconditionally. The defence of the parliamentary institution, its rules and its practices is also a common focus of the rapporteur-general and the chairman of the Committee on Finance, who have two completely complementary institutional functions. I had the chance to share an undeniable complicity with President Woerth, before, during and after the countless hours spent on the bench of the committee. This complicity stems in particular, but not only, from the fact that we have always had in mind the general interest, the interest of the Committee on Finance and the interest of the National Assembly in our statements and statements. It is also probably due to the fact that we share the same love of the mountain and, as a result, a certain spirit of rope. I believe that we have shown the importance of framing the debate and legitimate political confrontation through legitimate rules and processes, recognized and respectful of individuals and political differences. May our society understand that this is the preferred way to live together, simply. [[Applause on many benches]] Finally, I would like to say how, during the study of these three finance bills, of these eight financial texts – including the GAFA law on digital giants – I was able to appreciate the incredible analytical and reactive capabilities of Division B, that of the rapporteur-general of the National Assembly. I have dragged my gaiters into many institutional bodies in France and Europe, including Switzerland, but I now know that the quality of the administrators of the National Assembly – which I already knew, but whose experience I now have, sometimes 24 hours a day, including nights – is not equal. You're right to applaud. I would therefore like to thank and congratulate in particular my division B, forgive me the possessive adjective: Sylvain and his predecessor Guillaume, Adrien, Theo, Julien, Geoffroy, Pierre-Alain, Marine, Antoine, Ludovic – I quote them in order not of preference, but of placement of offices, that they do not begin to fight – and all those who preceded them, including Clement and Elise, here at the bench of the Government, but also the substitutes of the other divisions that supported us, in particular Loubna and Benoît, without forgetting the small daily hands of the service, notably Lysiane, Martine and Anthony. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I would not forget the staff of the meeting, including the bailiffs, to whom I have always tried and managed to avoid night sessions or full weekends – this is a feat, given the number of amendments. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members get up and applaud]] Here I conclude my ninth fall speech – now winter. I really feel that I have been at the heart of an unprecedented political experience whose history will remember, I am sure, that it was a real period of transformation of France. I also know that I leave you in good hands, those of Laurent Saint-Martin, a rugby team captain from whom I am not very philosophically distant. He'll be able to take you to this playground. It is now time for us to complete our debate with a favourable vote on the 2020 Finance Bill. As someone would say, I'll just say "good-bye" and – being a regular, someone observed it in this chamber, two-ball jokes – "Joel drowning"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u10	You notice that I didn't have the heart to turn off your microphone after the five minutes of regulation, but don't take advantage of it because such a moment of weakness is rare. Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u11	After considering these 11228 amendments in committee and sitting, I would like to say two or three things. I confirm, first of all, what I said at the beginning of the review of the finance bill, minister: I am convinced, basically, that this is the budget that you would not have liked to present; You wouldn't have liked to do it two years ago, and probably not last year either. The hallmark of this budget is the reduction in taxes, which may seem rather positive: you reduce household taxes such as housing tax and income tax. But you do this without this reduction in public revenues being compensated, which is probably not the right way to achieve your goals. The deficit, the debt, the expenditure – well-known notions of French public finances – are three strands that, in this budget, have not really experienced the progress that could have been achieved, even in a complicated social situation like ours. When we compare ourselves to others, there is no reason to be reassured, this time: the other European countries have reduced their deficits faster than we have. You and Minister Le Maire have told us very often that our deficit has never been so low. Of course, and that's so much better! But what matters is the deficit derivative, its evolution compared to last year. However, its reduction is extremely small in this budget, of the order of 0.1 %; In essence, it is the smallest reduction in the French public deficit in a long time. The efforts, therefore, are not there. It is not just a question of whether we are making great structural efforts, or of systematically looking at what the Court of Auditors is saying, even if it speaks with great competence. It is not simply an accounting vision: the evolution of our deficit is a commitment to the sovereignty of our country. I know that you are convinced of this and that the Government can only be persuaded of it as well. However, the priority you should have given to restoring public finances, before reducing taxes so sharply, is missing from this finance bill. It probably existed at the beginning of the mandate, but it no longer exists. This also applies to the debates on pensions, which have sometimes taken a rather surprising turn: you have tried to make certain subjects evolve but always leaving others in the shadows, that is, by never settling the problems completely. On the ISCED – the tax credit for the energy transition – the debate has been rather strange, as well as on the PTZ – the zero-rate loan – the carbon tax or subjects as different as patronage or the wealth lottery. So many very different points by their objects and their magnitude, which do not have the same priority character, but on which we have remained in the middle of the ford or even in completely incomprehensible positions. First of all, because of the reduction in taxation, we could have had a real debate on taxation in the 21st century, but it did not take place. We have not really talked about green taxation. In essence, you have made only a few adjustments, which put professions in crisis – I am of course thinking of non-road diesel or other similar subjects – without ever, in reality, going down in detail to what a green tax could be. You have abandoned the idea of carbon taxation, at least in this budget, as a result of the so-called "yellow vests" crisis, without trying to think differently about what green taxation should be in our country. Nothing about digital taxation either, apart from the record of the United States delays or the expectation of great progress on the OECD side – the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – which should be followed by what we have done on GAFAs. Digital taxation deserved further treatment, and the Government could have drawn the lines of its evolution, even though it did not adopt a comprehensive tax component on the subject. However, these lines have been completely absent, as well as for green taxation. [[Smile]] [[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and LT groups]] I would like to conclude by expressing the great pleasure I had in working with Joël Giraud. I wouldn't say he was an accomplice to me – the term could be misinterpreted – but we sit side by side and work together. The rapporteur-general and the chairman of the Finance Committee form a rather strange couple – we are not going on vacation together, do not worry, there will be no pictures in Paris Match – who must get along well, under pain of war, a war of corridors, as is often the case in France. This war did not take place between us: each of us, with its particularity and profile, was able to make this important duo live between majority and opposition; We've passed all this, thank God. It has certainly happened to me, Mr rapporteur-general, that you have been calling a little too often not to vote for the amendments that I tabled, and I hope that your successor, Laurent Saint-Martin, in whom I place many hopes, will give more positive opinions on the excellent amendments that I tabled, as well as the members of my group, Véronique Louwagie is the witness. In any case, as far as we are concerned, there was no middle or first rope, but a rope, quite simply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u12	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u13	I will not fail either, Mr rapporteur-general, to welcome the work you have done and the way in which you have done it, even if our disagreements remain complete. For more than a year now, the country has been in a social boil and you are trying vainly to put the lid back on the coconut-minute in which the pressure continues to rise. I imagine how you're going to try to do it now, about pension reform. Perhaps you will make a gesture by removing the pivotal age for those born before 1975, hoping thus to divide the social movement, and hoping above all that the French do not see that it is for everyone that point retirement will lead to a decline in the retirement age and a fall in pensions. You will certainly also continue to try to divide the French by throwing the drivers of the SNCF and RATP...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u14	They are the ones who throw the French into pasture!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u15	But there are many special retreats that you have chosen to defend: those of the police – and I am not against it – so much so that your regime is held only by them; others that we are talking about less, such as funded pensions, to which you have granted many exemptions in the PACTE law – on business growth and transformation – or like hat pensions, which your project does not even mention. And for good reason! Behind these choices, it is the very engine of your policy that is hidden and must be denounced. This country does not suffer from having given too many gifts to the employees, to the workers; It suffers from the fact that the capitalist rent paid to shareholders weighs more and more heavily. Thirty years ago, an employee worked nine days for shareholders; Today is forty-five days. You continue to increase these benefits for the rich, on the pretext that they will eventually spill over into the entire economy, but we see that this is not the case. It is the very essence of your policy, which inevitably leads to inequalities. Oh, I know, I won't be able to convince you, nor will I be able to convince the social sphere that you are defending, the one that prevails, the one that thinks that we have to appoint HRDs to the government to settle social conflicts, the one that last year passed another 400,000 French under the poverty line, while you distributed 400 million euros more to the richest 60,000 of our fellow citizens. Everything is there: to give to the richest, you must take to the whole of society, especially, in an iniquitous way, to the poorest 10%. We must compensate for the exemptions, not to mention the 20 billion CICE – a tax credit for competitiveness and employment – which we know does not create a single job. So you're attacking the retreats. You are attacking the unemployed: with the reform that you have been implementing for a few months, you will lead to poverty, next year, more than 1 million of them, deprived of compensation. You're attacking the APLs, the personalized housing aids. You're attacking the AME, the state medical aid, for the most underprivileged. This is the movement that this PLF prolongs because the tax you reduce is the redistributive tax par excellence, because you remove the housing tax for the richest, because you do not touch the gifts you have offered them for three years, by removing the ISF – solidarity tax on wealth – or by lowering the corporate tax, for a cost of 30 billion! And as you compensate for these revenue cuts by cuts in public spending, with accounting targets that no one can understand anymore, it is all public missions that you are attacking, with budget cuts for ministries as essential as those of health, labour, finance, etc. In essence, by pursuing this policy of breaking the social state as it was built after the Liberation and reinforced by major social struggles, especially in 1968 and the 1980s, you weaken all the mechanisms of equality and solidarity of our country. You're putting the country in tension, always to the benefit of the same people. You're pursuing a policy that is so unequal that you're going to press the lid as much as you like, the cocotte-minute will eventually explode, I tell you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u16	That's your business!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u17	One day, you won't control anything, because you don't understand that you have to stop mistreating the French. In conclusion, I will quote...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u18	Karl Marx?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u19	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... a specialist of this world, which he sometimes tries to criticize as he promotes it to the government, the minister of action and public accounts: "A capitalism that leads to the increase of inequalities and the depletion of the resources of the planet leads nowhere. Dear colleagues of the majority, your policy does not lead anywhere, or rather it leads to the misfortune of most French people. That is why we call for rejection of the PLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u20	Bravo, Mr. Coquerel!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u21	In the explanations of vote on the motion to reject the motion, Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u22	I will be brief because the debate on the finance bill has already been lengthy. I too would like to express, after Éric Coquerel, the feeling that, since you came to power, a huge social malaise has been growing in the country. An anger is expressed regularly, and very strongly at the moment about pension reform. One of the functions of a finance law is to try to regulate a little, especially on an issue that is at the heart of the French's concerns: the sharing of wealth. But you make the choice not to go towards more fairness, but to impoverish the majority of the people to enrich others. For this reason and for many others, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u23	Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u24	I will not surprise you: the La République en marche group will not vote in favour of Mr Coquerel's motion to reject it beforehand. We believe that the measures included in the PLF will have a positive effect on our territories, and I will take a few examples. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, in my constituency, which is one of the poorest in France, unemployment has increased from 16.5 to 13.5 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u25	We're rubbing people from Pôle Emploi!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u26	Oh, no! We create jobs. You'll see, it works, it's fantastic: 35% industrial employment! On the other hand, corporate taxes will fall by 28% for our SMEs and TPEs, and I think we can be proud of that. Lower income tax. Increase in the allowance for adults with disabilities. Lower housing tax. As far as the area of regalism is concerned, there has never been so much attention paid to the real estate assets of police officers and gendarmes, who finally regain dignity at work. Mr Coquerel, the debate on the PLF lasted 253 hours. It is a democratic exercise that has allowed national representation to look at all the public policies that underpin our society. We really disagree. For my part, I strongly and vigorously support the Finance Bill for 2020. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, thank you to the rapporteur-general, for his work and listening, for the serenity with which he moderated the debates, and for the way in which he sometimes managed to find compromises with the oppositions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u27	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u28	I can see Mr. Coquerel didn't convince you. Moreover, we are on final reading, and I agree that there is something a little formal to suggest that you reject the budget at this last stage. The intention of the group of La France, you understand, is political. If we could, we would reject the budget to resume the zero copy, because we believe that your project is not leading anywhere. Of all the explanations that everyone can give here, there will remain only one thing: 400,000 more people are poor in the country, and the state budget does not play the countercyclical function that can be expected of it, in the French tradition and in the tradition of state interventionism in the economy. Could we do otherwise? You should ask yourself the question. Since nothing works, we could try something else! This is what we are trying to do at the moment in Portugal, where the Government is led by socialists, supported by the Communist Party and the Bloco, that is, the insoumis of Portugal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u29	In Portugal, the SMIC is 635 euros! That's a good example.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u30	However, just out of curiosity, they restored four holidays, re-aligned pensions, re-established 35 hours in the public service, restored salaries to the level they were before they were reduced to deal with the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u31	And the SMIC is 635 euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u32	As a result, unemployment rose from 12.5 per cent to 6 per cent. These are facts, not theories like the one on whose behalf you set the state budget! You are organizing the budget to reduce public services everywhere, with the hope that the private sector will replace them and that it will cost society less. That's not what's going on!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u33	And the fall in unemployment, you don't count it for anything?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u34	The best example of this is what you do in health, where you have removed 160 emergency services; Only 60 or 70 have been created in the private sector, and everyone is ill-treated. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] The facts should still interest you, from time to time – it is hardly if I dare to quote Lenin, who said that they were stubborn. They are catching up with you: if you believe that all these people are on the street for something other than to show their opposition to all this, then you also don't understand when you live!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u35	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u36	Mr rapporteur-general, thank you for allowing the Members of Parliament who were novices to introduce us to budgetary techniques. You and the chairman of the commission made you our teachers, and we all made progress: it was a very pleasant time. So here we are at the time of final reading, ready to pass the Finance Bill for 2020, which, I say in turn, marks the end of the budget marathon – a classic in this season. [[Smile]] Despite the threats to the stability of the world, to European and global growth, as we committed ourselves to it before the French, the finance bill introduced by the Government and enriched by parliamentary debates – I would certainly like, like the chairman of the committee, to see more of our adopted amendments, but we will do without –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u37	Even the MODEM complains!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u38	... is marked by the seriousness of the budget, to which, as you know, the MODEM Group attaches particular importance. We also continue to follow the line of tax justice set two years ago. It has gone a little unnoticed, but the French will see as early as January that the tax cuts we have voted for are all but negligible. And it is the middle classes that will reap the greatest benefits, it should be stressed. They have been waiting for him for a long time, after having been subject, year after year, to tax increases without being able to say anything. In the context I mentioned above – European growth in the dark and the world in crisis – France resists, it resists well. The measures adopted in previous years are working. The members of the MODEM Group also welcome the continuation of the reform of local taxation. The compensation provisions adopted, in particular for the municipalities, are a good method; Mayors can, I think, be reassured. Again, tax justice is the key word! I do not forget the incentive policy on ecology. We are making great strides in this area, and it is happy: the French are asking us, how they are asking us for an effort to clarify. The course is set, and we are moving in the right direction. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] So, in a few words, these two months of work of the Finance Committee and of our House. Of course, the MODEM Group strongly supports this text and invites our House to adopt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u39	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u40	We are finally at the end of the budget marathon. At this moment, I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur-general for the last two and a half years. We have worked in confidence, intelligently, on a few issues that are of mutual interest to us. I wish Mr. Saint-Martin the same success in this demanding position. I would then like to thank the National Assembly's services for their valuable assistance and advice, and finally Minister Gérard Darmanin for improving access to data – although much remains to be done, for example with regard to inheritance and donation databases – and for listening to it, as well as to his office and services, particularly on the particular file of tax advisers. I'm coming to the PLF. Unsurprisingly, the SOC Group will vote against this budget for three main reasons, which may surprise you: the reduction in income tax; the removal of the housing tax; the non-compensation of the exemption from charges for the social security budget. It is certainly easy to vote for reductions in taxes or social contributions. It is positive, laudable, to reduce compulsory levies in order to make purchasing power available, but I do not agree with the political choice of reducing income tax. This tax is just because progressive: the more you earn, the more you contribute; The less you win, the less you contribute. This is obviously not the case for all taxes, some of which affect everyone without distinction: whether you are a smicard, unemployed person or a millionaire, you will pay the same VAT, which, for example, represents about 15% of your electricity bill. Where's tax justice? According to the barometer published this week by an institute, a majority of French people – 53% – indicate, for the first time, that they prefer an improvement in public services rather than a reduction in taxes. Never had the 50% bar been crossed. More than one Frenchman in two wants to improve public services, even if they pay more taxes. The French are committed to their public services, to their social model, which means that our country has the least number of pensioners in Europe: 7.5 per cent. This is already too much, but the proportion is 18.7% in Germany and 14.7% in Sweden. Reducing compulsory levies is not a policy in itself; having only the country's GDP or debt ratio as a compass is dangerous. Our tax system needs to be rethought; a fair and efficient tax is possible. You made a bad choice about the national tax, but you also made a bad choice about the local tax. Of course, I am referring to the removal of the housing tax. This terrible promise by the President of the Republic to exempt 80% of those subject to housing tax on the grounds that this tax is unfair is a mistake. Yes, the plate had to be revised, and the work was well advanced. Why didn't you sue him, which would have made that tax fair? Because it is easier to remove a tax, especially when its product does not absolve the budget of the state but that of the local authorities: we make gifts with the portfolio of others! Moreover, you go far beyond the presidential promise by abolishing TH for all, including the 20% of the richest French. Definitely, with you, the first ropes are well served: after the removal of the ISF and after the introduction of the flat tax, they will benefit from the complete abolition of the TH. Don't throw any more, the basket is full! Finally, I would like to end my remarks by referring to the non-compensation of the exemption from charges for the social security budget, a major mistake which alone would justify a vote against. Why? Because this is an attack on our social model that I was talking about right now. Whether metropolitan, peri-urban or rural, the primary concern remains health, in front of employment, then education and the environment. What are you doing? You are weakening the social security budget, even though there are no longer any emergency services, hospital services or EHPADs – a housing establishment for dependent elderly people – on strike, not to mention the majority of French people who protest against your pension reform. For the second year in a row, in application of the new Charpy-Dubertet doctrine, you are organising significant financial transfers from social security to the state, which will represent a loss of more than €4 billion for the social security budget. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] When you want to kill your dog, you say he's rabid. When you want to kill your social model, you organize your deficit. It will then be easy to demand new sacrifices from the French and local authorities in order to correct the public accounts. The song is known and the potion will be bitter for the vast majority of French. But beware: who sows the wind reaps the storm! I wish you all the best at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u41	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u42	That's it, we're here: we're coming to the end of the review of the Finance Bill for 2020 and we're going to be able to make a final decision. Like last year, we are going to vote on this budget in a particular context of social grunt. Our fellow citizens express strong concerns about their future and their standard of living, with a view to pension reform. In our view, this reform is indispensable, balanced and fair, but we need to explain it better, to show ourselves more pedagogue, so that everyone can be reassured for his old days. We must also explain to the French that, this year, after the emergency measures of the end of 2018, we are continuing the effort to restore purchasing power to them, particularly with regard to taxpayers in the first instalments of income tax. As at first and second reading, the UDI, Agir and Independent Group will vote for the 2020 budget, which provides for a reduction in income tax of €5 billion, for an average gain per household estimated at €303. In addition, 80 % of tax households in 2020 have been removed from the housing tax, which in 2023, at the time of its total disappearance, will generate an average gain per household estimated at 723 euros. While this removal of the housing tax still raises questions about its possible consequences for the resources of our communities, we have another year to identify them and make the necessary adjustments. Another major focus of the budget is the ecological transition. On this point, the balance sheet is more mixed. We are concerned about the impact, scope and acceptability of certain so-called "environmental" measures. The creation of a premium to replace ISCED is a good measure, but it is truly regrettable that households in the last two deciles do not benefit from it. Many are landlords, and we consider that the fight against energy insecurity and thermal colanders must concern all the French. As for the gradual abolition of the reduced tariff of the TICEP – internal energy consumption tax – for non-road diesel and the reduction of the reimbursement of the TICEP applicable to road freight transport, we regret that you did not agree to smooth them over a longer period of time, as we proposed. For my part, I remain sincerely appalled by the red tape-induced administrative burden created by a government amendment for agricultural works companies: frankly, with such a measure, we have lost sight of the spirit of the law for a state at the service of a trustworthy society. Finally, the PLF contains measures to accompany our territories, which we consider to be particularly important, whether it concerns the preservation of the means of the chambers of agriculture, the maintenance of the PTZ for new housing throughout the territory or the fiscal levers left to the communities to revitalize their territories, in rural areas as well as in the heart of the city. Before concluding, I shall in turn have a special word for our dear, seasoned rapporteur-general, who has been able to be the rapporteur of the Committee on Finance as a whole and not just one part of the majority. Thank you, rapporteur-general, for your openness, sincerity, good humour, uncontrollable laughter and support. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, since the end-of-year holiday period is conducive to the formulation of wishes, we hope that the next PLF will focus on two major issues that are missing from this 2020 budget: the so-called "production" taxes and the real choice of reducing public spending, in order to achieve a balance in our public finances. In the meantime, to finish 2019 well, our group will support the PLF, as at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u43	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u44	It is my turn to say a nice word to our rapporteur-general, with whom I have sometimes had a somewhat tense relationship in recent years when I was trying to explain to him the problems of the suburbs. Our relationships were always passionate: when two strong personalities meet, it sometimes sparks. This year, we had a little more pacified relations; It's so much better and I'm very happy about it. And I will never forget, Mr rapporteur-general, your crazy laugh – there have been many – when our dear colleague from Courson left in a crazy speech on the COCO, the correcting coefficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u45	[[Smile]] That's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u46	Don't take it for yourself, Mr. Dufrègne! We will miss all of this, although, Mr General, you will of course remain on our benches and we will, I am sure, have an opportunity to continue working together. The Liberties and Territories Group has already had the opportunity to express its great reservations about your draft budget. This session devoted to its final adoption reminds us of André Gide's sentence: "All things are already said; But as no one listens, you always have to do it again. » "The Finance Bill for 2020 is an ambitious, fair and balanced text," said LaREM's speaker, three days ago, in the same forum. In the light of the various stages of the review of this text, let us look together at whether these three objectives are being achieved. First of all, is your budget balanced? It seems to us to be risky to claim this when the PLF confirms the Government's abandonment of any attempt to redress the public accounts. In July 2017, however, your government set ambitious targets for reducing public spending, deficit and debt. What's left of it? Not much. The structural effort to reduce public deficits is zero, while the structural improvement required is 0.6% of GDP, a gap of EUR 14 billion. You could take advantage of better growth to clean up our public accounts, but nothing does. So you give up your commitments. Second question: Is your budget socially fair? In this regard, Minister, you are putting forward two emblematic measures. The first concerns the €5 billion reduction in income tax – although, as we have pointed out, the revenue from this tax will increase in 2020. Who will benefit from this decline? Today, 22 million households, i.e. more than one in two households, the least affluent of them, do not pay income tax. This will therefore not benefit them. We welcome, however, the adoption of certain measures, such as the maintenance of the zero-rate loan scheme for new housing throughout the territory or the restoration of the additional half share for widows of former combatants. The other announcement you put forward is the gradual and total removal of the housing tax. It follows the same logic as the reduction in income tax: it will benefit above all from the ninth and tenth deciles. Indeed, the first two deciles are not concerned and the third and fourth deciles have their tax capped at 3.44% of their reference tax income. Your policy is therefore, in our view, aimed at the wrong people. The most modest French are the forgotten of the budget. The announcement of the removal of the housing tax caused the disruption of the local taxation that we witnessed. In the end, does this reform strengthen local democracy? On the contrary: you break the link between citizens and the local sphere while planing the fiscal and financial autonomy of local authorities. In any case, I am not sure that we are now measuring all the implications of the provisions of Article 5, in particular of the compensation scheme. The examination at first reading allowed us to introduce a coefficient of revalorisation of the bases equivalent to 0.9%, but questions remain, among other things, on the functioning and evolution of the correction coefficient, the famous COCO – forgive me again, my dear colleague Dufrègne. Experience has led us to doubt about compensation to the euro in the medium and long term. Furthermore, we hope that the method applied to the reform of local taxation will not serve as a model for the future 3D bill on decentralization, differentiation and deconcentration. Otherwise, we would expose ourselves to great disillusionment. I would nevertheless like to welcome, Mr Minister, the effort that has been made this year with regard to equalisation, both with regard to the DSU – the allocation of urban solidarity – the DPV – the political allocation of the city – and the increase of the FSRIF – the solidarity fund of the communes of Île-de-France. Finally, is this budget ambitious with regard to the energy transition? You announced an ecological turning point, but the reality is much more contrasted; ambition has been reshuffled. While we highlight some progress, such as the transformation of ISCED into a premium, at the same time you restrict the number of potential beneficiaries and the amount of the allocation. As you present the fight against global warming and the fight against thermal colanders as one of your priorities, efforts are not up to the promise. We must remind you that ecological taxation amounts to EUR 56 billion in revenue when environmental expenditure, according to the financial inspectorate, amounts to EUR 35 billion. The idea adopted in the Senate of assigning a fraction of the ICTPE to the energy transition communities was in the right direction. Why refuse this measure when it allows action to be taken as closely as possible to the citizens, except for accounting reasons? [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] In conclusion, you tell us that we have an "ambitious, fair and balanced" budget, but it seems to us that it is neither ambitious ecologically, nor socially just and even less balanced, as the state of our deficit shows. That is why the vast majority of Members of my group will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u47	On the whole of the finance bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u48	Since September, together with my colleagues in the La France group, we have done everything we can to ensure that you realize the magnitude of the mistakes and mistakes you make with the finance bill. We have argued, amended, proposed and beaten as much as we could, but there is nothing to do: you persist, you sign and I fear that you will vote on it. You sign to make life easier for the wealthy, for example, by removing the housing tax for the richest 20%, resulting in the loss of 8 billion euros a year to the community. You are signing to ruin the lives of the poorest, for example by reforming the APLs so as to make the households that have benefited so far lose 1.2 billion euros. And I'm not talking about unemployment benefit, which was mentioned earlier. Some colleagues then explained that you had made it possible to reduce unemployment by 500,000 people. I can tell you that with the reform that you have adopted, there will be several hundred thousand fewer registered unemployed in April 2019, but that will not mean that they will no longer be unemployed; They will simply have been removed from the calculations, because of the manipulations you are doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u49	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u50	You sign to disarm the State and our public services a little more, yet already in arrears, for example by abolishing posts in ministries as important as that of solidarity and health or that of the ecological and solidarity transition. If you persist in spite of all our warnings, sometimes even against the most elementary common sense, it is because this budget is not a mistake or a misunderstanding. This is a conscious choice, it's your project: more privileges for the richest, more painstaking for the poorest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u51	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u52	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Yes, but here's the thing: you came across a bone because you had to eat up the state. You've gone way too far, and France is cracking. It can no longer cope with your state breakdown and national solidarity, it can no longer cope with widespread insecurity, it can no longer count its cents at the beginning of the month while you offer billions to those who already have too much,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u53	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] Don't forget to breathe!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u54	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] ... she can no longer see you make Secretary of State a man able to lay off an employee for an 80-cent cash error!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u55	That's it! Roll in the mud!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u56	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Gentlemen and ladies of the Government, do you know what harm you are doing? Do you know that at the Robert-Debré pediatric hospital, for example, as in the whole of Île-de-France, we lack so many beds that we are obliged to transfer some children to other areas, to Reims or Rouen, to make room? Do you know that families are suddenly cut off from their sick child because there are no beds in the whole area to accommodate them? Of course you do! The number exploded! In Robert-Debré alone, instead of the three transfers made in total last year, there are already more than twenty since October!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u57	Did your friends cut off the electricity there? Would you like to talk about it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u58	You know that very well, and you are responsible for it, but you leave the ungrateful task of telling families that their child will be transferred tens or hundreds of kilometres away.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u59	Yes! What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u60	These caregivers you are hiding behind, while working thirteen hours a day, in a tense flow, with just ten minutes to eat!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u61	Bravo, Mr. Coquerel! That's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u62	Well, that's it! You're in a bad position to give us lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u63	You know that they can't do it anymore, since 800 heads of service have just signed a petition where they threaten to resign if you don't change politics! You know that, but you are silent because silence is not an oversight at home; Silence in you is a contempt.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u64	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u65	And there are still thousands of others, examples like this one, thousands of tragedies that you let crawl through the corridors of our hospitals, our schools, our stations, our barracks!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u66	Demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u67	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It's been too long since our public services hold only thanks to the devotion of their agents, a devotion to which you respond by more disdain and less means. But these agents will continue to fight against your inept decisions and for their trades, like those unionists I met ten days ago in a SNCF workshop, after a general meeting. One of them, Matthew, told me: "We are proud to be railwaymen. We are proud of what we give to the nation. We are proud of our history. We are proud of our social struggles. We are proud of our role in the Liberation. If the strikers of this country hear me, I pay tribute to them. I say thank you, thank you for everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u68	Bravo, Mr. Coquerel!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u69	What a demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u70	As for you, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to take stock of the seriousness of the situation in which our country is in. I call on you to refuse to pass this moribund finance bill and to call with me for a major emergency plan to rescue the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u71	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u72	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I urge you to live up to this urgency and the ongoing social movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u73	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u74	After several months of work, we are completing the review of the Finance Bill for 2020. While I thank the rapporteur-general for the work he has done, we do not recognize ourselves in the text before us, because the measures contained in it are in total mismatch with the expectations of our fellow citizens, the social climate and reality. It is, however, in line with your policy, which serves not a project, but the capital and the wealthiest. Freedom, equality, fraternity: this is the motto of our great and beautiful nation. However, in the course of this PLF, it is clear that you are not following this course of action. Proposing a facade equality is not the same as trying to create a fairer system. Under the guise of equality and tax and social justice for the poorest, you have announced and voted for the gradual end of the housing tax. By 2023, no home will pay for it. However, isn't this a gift to the richest? Many of the most modest were not already liable for the tax, and although they were the last to be exempt, the top 20 per cent of income would be the big winners of the reform. Let us not forget that the removal of TH will cause an imbalance and lead to a loss of autonomy of local finances, which is really a problem. You're turning the CICE into a drop in uncompensated expenses, and reducing the SI – the income tax – especially for large businesses, again without consideration. Evidently, equality is not the same for the richest. With your obsession with declining public spending, you create completely new situations that are not in the public interest. One example is the abolition of nearly 6,000 posts in Bercy between 2020 and 2022. Over the duration of the quinquennium, 10,000 posts will be abolished, with numerous closures or forecasts of closures, including cash flows. Yet you say that you want, through this PLF, to fight tax fraud more effectively. It is commendable, but with what means, what human resources will you do? Probably this is why you intend to put in place surveillance of data on the websites of social networks and platform operators – a less expensive, more arbitrary, liberticide measure. Health, a great national cause? In speeches perhaps, but words will not cure the evils of the system. See and hear the distress of health professionals, see how your actions and plans do not meet their needs. Social misery is constantly gaining ground in France, and you are fanning its embers. As far as ecology is concerned, I do not see much progress in this text or even in the other actions that you have been able to carry out. The increasingly liberal and capitalized system that you promote is totally incompatible with the environmental and ecological cause, yet so important. The ISCED, for example, will be replaced by a bonus. In the meantime, it is planned to allocate only EUR 800 million to this scheme in 2020, compared with EUR 1.6 billion in 2017. Other glaring features of your policy, such as the ratification of CETA – the free trade agreement between the European Union and Canada – show us that your so-called ecological conscience is just a smokescreen, a communication operation. That said, everything in this text is not to be discarded. Some progress has been made thanks to the common sense which the House has sometimes shown. The extension of the PTZ, for example, was confirmed here on the night of Tuesday to Wednesday. For my part, I am pleased to have tabled an amendment to amend the arrangements for the additional half-tax for widows of veterans from 2021 onwards, an amendment which was unanimously adopted less one vote in the public sitting. I thank my colleagues, in particular the rapporteur-general, Joël Giraud,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u75	A very good rapporteur-general!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u76	[["Congratulation! » on various benches]] ... for this parliamentary moment and for the progress we have made collectively. However, on the whole, the finance bill for 2020 is profoundly unfair and far removed from our values. It is a new PLF in favor of the rich, a new signal of distrust towards the French people, which, a year after the yellow vest movement, gathers in mass in the streets to fight, this time, your project of reform of the pension system. But you prefer to keep your eyes and not hear what the French have to say. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR groups and on a few benches of the SOC and FI groups]] For all these reasons, members of the GDR Group will vote against the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u78	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u79	With the final reading of the finance bill, we are coming to the end of the budget process for 2020. It was three months of shared labor on all benches. Democracy is the contradictory debate and it is also convergence in the name of the general interest. We come to the end of a participatory process longer than usual. I would like to stress, once again, that this budget will be that of the reduction of taxes for households, with the reduction of the income tax and the abolition of the housing tax. It will be more purchasing power for the middle classes as well as – don't you mind – for people with modest incomes, with an average reduction of 350 euros over the year, which will have a direct impact on the payroll as of January. This is concrete: 5 billion euros that are put on the table by measures that will benefit businesses as well as individuals. This is one of the major decisions that emerged from the major national debate held earlier this year. This tax cut comes from our electoral districts, it is the result of a democratic debate, and it will benefit all of our territories. The removal of the housing tax has led us to initiate the reform of local taxation. Let us welcome the work done together in order to preserve the means of action of the local and regional authorities. We are going to win our bet: reduce the compulsory levies for the French and support the local authorities by removing the negative effects of very unequal taxation, while at the same time compensating it. Our fiscal policy is also to make taxation more readable by lowering the corporate tax rate and continuing our efforts to clean up the tax bases. This is what we are doing by adopting all the measures to transpose the directive establishing rules to combat tax evasion practices, known as "ATAD", and the directive to regulate online platforms, in order to preserve our sovereignty and tax bases, particularly with regard to VAT. Our fiscal policy is still to make corporate taxation compatible with our environmental objectives, as illustrated by the transformation of ISCED into a premium, the ecological malus, the measure concerning GNR – non-road diesel – or the end of the export guarantee for polluting activities. Demanding and supporting our businesses, our policy also aims to strengthen our public services, the Regalian sector that is the heart of the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u80	Um!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u81	Many budgetary efforts are being made for the police, the gendarmerie, the judiciary and the army. Of course, the same commitment will have to be made in the fight against tax and social fraud. We repeat our vigilance to ensure the transformation of our administrations, to make them work better together, to help them – and not to replace them – with digital technology and, more generally, to respect the social and territorial situation of our agents, whose skills are great. Finally, I would like to refer to the question of evaluation. Since our election, we have been arguing that there is a need for more evaluation. There will be much work to be done in the coming months to check the effectiveness of our pro-investment tax policy for economic actors and employment. The first signs are very encouraging, but the next few months will be decisive to confirm that the economic course we are taking is the right one and that we are giving everyone more opportunities, first and foremost to find a job. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] I would like to take this opportunity to pay a special tribute to our rapporteur-general, Joël Giraud, who has worked day and night, since the beginning of the legislature, to ensure that our draft budgets are implemented. He has also taken important initiatives in the area of monitoring and evaluation – but I do not forget the work done by our former colleague Amélie de Montchalin and Laurent Saint-Martin to renew the budgetary procedure. Thank you and congratulations, dear Joel, for your seriousness and good mood under all circumstances, even after long nights spent studying amendments! Serious, democratic and fiscal justice: that is what our majority wants to inculcate and infuse.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u82	What a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u83	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] And this is confirmed by the draft finance law for 2020, to which the Group of the Republic on the move will give its full support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u84	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u85	First of all, on my behalf and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to address a special thought to the rapporteur-general, Joël Giraud. After three months of debate, we meet this morning for the final reading of the Finance Bill for 2020. Let me begin by reviewing the conditions under which this text was re-read, as it was particularly challenging because of the unprecedented length of the text that was forwarded to us by the Senate: 283 articles, of which 148 were additional; 955 amendments to be considered. However, we have only had a day and a half to try to turn this text into a definitive and thoughtful version. It's not serious! Is it relevant to talk about debate when we are obliged to send the amendments, or at least to vote on them, in order to finish in the time allotted by the Government? It is regrettable that consideration of such an important text has been so hasty. I'm coming to the bottom. In this final version, you have endeavoured to systematically remove all the measures introduced by the Senate, without really trying to know whether or not they were in the right direction. By dogmatism, you have listened deafly to the arguments of the opposition. You had only one objective: to restore the text originally voted by the House. In short, you kept your eyes without trying to broaden your field of vision. Where is respect for parliamentary work and legislative co-construction? Even when you were loyally beaten, you went back to the measures adopted, in the game of second deliberations. Ten were thus re-examined – it is upuesque. While the request for further deliberation could exceptionally be justified, in the vast majority of cases the sole reason for the new vote was to delete provisions that did not satisfy the Government. Mr Minister, should I remind you that the second debate on amendments must remain an exceptional mechanism, not become a trivialised tool, at the service of the Government, to go back to measures voted by Parliament that would hinder you? At this stage, it is a real denial of democracy that you have shown, because you do not respect the parliamentarians who have debated these measures and voted on them. Whether you agree with the outcome of the vote or not, respect the sovereignty of Parliament! In general, this PLF is a mixture of renunciation, illusions and contempt for the French. In the explanatory memorandum, you announced a forecast of the state deficit of EUR 93.1 billion, which was already very alarming. But you are doing worse in the final version as it stands at 93.3 billion, a difference of 200 million euros between the beginning and the end of the examination of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u86	What a disappointment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u87	You pride yourself on reducing the taxes of the French; You even make it a major argument to poorly defend your budget. In reality, taxes are increasing considerably. This is proof of the €3 billion increase in income tax revenues, as you announced a €5 billion reduction in this tax. I would also like to point out, as far as you're concerned, that the additional EUR 16 billion that corporate tax will bring back to the state in 2020, while tax cuts were announced here too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u88	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u89	Similarly, the decline in the CSG – the widespread social contribution – for modest pensioners and the reindexation of small pensions are in fact only partial measures to correct the tax increases that you yourself voted for in 2018 and 2019. Moreover, your obstinacy to remove the housing tax is particularly damaging. You are destroying a strong link between the people and their communities, at a time when relations between elected officials and residents are already very delicate. Nevertheless, we welcome some progress, which has been made thanks to the mobilization of the opposition, in particular the maintenance of the resources of the chambers of agriculture, the restoration of the additional half share for widows of veterans, the maintenance of the zero-rate loan scheme in new housing throughout the territory, and the tax credit for crafts, which was extended until 2022 thanks to an amendment by our colleague Fabrice Brun. But we regret that this finance bill is like the precedents of your quinquennium: disappointing and unfair. [["Oh! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, as you will understand, Members of the Republican Group will not vote for this text. I am still taking this moment, ladies and gentlemen, to renew the tribute to Joël Giraud...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u91	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the UDI-Agir group]] ...and wish you all good Christmas and year-end holidays.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u92	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u93	I now call, in accordance with Rule 114(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the bill in the text voted by the National Assembly on further reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u94	I put to the vote the whole of the finance bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u95	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 108 Number of votes cast 107 Absolute majority 54 For adoption 77 Against 30
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u96	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on engagement in local life and proximity to public action (No. 2499, corrected).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u97	Mr Bruno Questel, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u98	This morning we come to the conclusion of the parliamentary review of the bill on engagement in local life and proximity to public action. I listened yesterday to our colleagues in the Senate; They voted unanimously on this text, and that is a good thing. They have demonstrated, beyond the divides, their ability to objectively grasp this bill; As part of our discussions, we have drawn up a balanced text. Indeed, this text from the CMP is the result of collective work: senators have marked it with their mark; the deputies have preserved the initial issues defined by the Government. This co-construction is also the result of the joint work with my two fellow rapporteurs, Françoise Gatel and Mathieu Darnaud, whom I would like to thank for their ambition to serve the communes and the mayors. We share this ambition. The agreement we reached in the Joint Joint Committee last week demonstrates our common will to respond to the concerns of local elected officials and to better recognize their commitment. This bill was expected and is the result of the long process of consultation initiated during the major national debate by the President of the Republic. It meets the strong expectations of local elected officials, including smaller municipalities, to meet the challenges they face on a daily basis; It also responds to a more general request to give meaning to their political commitment by offering them new accompanying tools. It is true that we are a certain number who have served as mayor. Without going into detail, I will recall the main provisions of the text. The first introduces the abolition of the most ardent irritants of the NOTRE law – the new territorial organization of the Republic – to restore the place of the commune within the intercommunality and the voice of the mayors in the decision-making process. Article 5 gives the expected flexibility to the arrangements for the transfer of water and sanitation competences to inter-communities. Article 6 makes it possible to restore to the tourist communes the exercise of the competence to promote tourism. Article 7 reinforces the place of the municipality in the procedure for drawing up local inter-municipal planning plans, the PLUI. On the other hand, we did not wish to question all aspects of the NOTRE law or to review all the transfers of powers already made, because another strong demand is expressed: stability. Remove what's hindering, what's bothering, yes; do the big night of decentralization, no! We are strengthening the mayor's capacity to act, particularly under his police powers, whether it is compliance with urban planning rules or the possibility of declaring the closure of drinking outlets: the mayor will in future have the tools necessary to carry out his tasks properly. Political commitment is enhanced through several measures designed to meet the concrete demands of our elected representatives: increase of the allowances of elected representatives of the smallest communes; functional protection of mayors; certain expenses, including travel and child care; principle of non-discrimination, e.g. elected employees. On all of these issues, we wanted, together with the Senate rapporteurs, to propose a balanced compromise. While the National Assembly has removed the additional articles adopted in the Senate that did not fall within the original purpose of the text, we have retained a large majority of the input from the Upper House. This is reflected in the 28 articles adopted in conformity and the 60 articles adopted as a result of minor amendments. Only 15 subjects were discussed with the Senate rapporteurs. With regard to parity, we have heard the fears of some elected officials about the difficulties of establishing complete lists in the smallest municipalities. This must not lead us to inaction. That is why we have adopted a compromise text aimed at bringing about a legislative change in this direction by 2022. We felt that we should be faithful to the Government's words regarding compensation, giving the municipalities the means to upgrade those of mayors, including the smallest communes. We have therefore resumed in the CMP the drafting of Article 28 adopted by our Committee on Laws at first reading. The text submitted to your vote this morning appears ultimately balanced and is likely to meet the legitimate expectations of local elected representatives. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, I would like to thank each and every representative of all parliamentary groups, without exception, for the quality of the relationship and common work on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u99	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u100	We have reached the end of an interesting year. It began with the great national debate, which allowed for a direct exchange between the President of the Republic and the mayors of France, as well as to restore an important place and visibility in the public debate to the local representative democracy, the role of mayors, deputy mayors and municipal councillors. It ends with a round-trip between the two chambers, witness to the good functioning of bicameralism, providing pragmatic answers to the questions posed by the organisation of local authorities in our country. The exercise is therefore successful and I, after the rapporteur, would like to thank you for the quality of the dialogue and the work done. We have observed that territorial issues have political lines that are not traditional, between political groups as well as between the National Assembly and the Senate. It was in turn a question of designing solutions to local problems or of arbitrating when there were in competition the two beautiful republican values of freedom and equality: to allow the exercise of local freedom, to say themselves girondin and to trust local elected officials, at the same time to define a republican framework that was sufficiently well-nourished to guarantee equality. It wasn't obvious, but we did. The second feeling that this text inspires me is that it is not revolutionary – and that is so much better. Indeed, whenever Parliament or the Government wanted to adopt a revolutionary text on territorial issues, our local elected colleagues took several years to recover.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u101	The Convention had done well!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u102	President Chassaigne, the Convention does not offer a good example in this respect!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u103	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u104	In any case, the NOTRE law was an example not to follow – I claim it. It was better to assume the humble status of a text of reparation than to try to organize an umpteenth great territorial evening, which might have aroused doubts, here or there, among the local elected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u105	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u106	The mayors of France called for both stability and clarity, and we could not ignore these expectations of a whole generation of local elected officials. In my view, we have made progress in this area, thanks to certain legal innovations that I will not develop. More than a thousand amendments in committee, a thousand in sittings, as well in the Senate: the debate has taken place, I believe. Territorial laws are often chatty because they contain many articles and open several codes at the same time; It is complicated to sum up this text into a single provision, but all the measures that make up it make up a system. I would like to make two final points. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, SOC and GDR groups as well as on some benches of the FI group]] First, I believe that we collectively provided a worthy response to the terrible tragedy that took place in Signes last August. The disappearance of Jean-Mathieu Michel – for whom I have a thought this morning – put a spotlight on the mayor's other function: state agent in the commune. It is a function often not well known to our fellow citizens, on which the media did not always have much to show. Under the Old Regime, the "two bodies of the king" were spoken of. This terrible tragedy recalled what the mayor's two bodies are, who is at the same time boss of his decentralized territorial community and representative of the state in the commune. The measures of legal protection, psychological support and administrative police power that we have introduced into the law and on which I will not return, are at least pragmatic, if not spectacular, advances, which are the subject of consensus, since they were expected both by the associations of elected representatives and, on the ground, by parliamentarians and elected officials. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Cécile Untermaier also applauds]] Secondly, this text starts a cultural shift which, again, without being spectacular, gives a spotlight on the communal bloc. In the last ten years, fashion has been gigantism. I recalled it here: we loved the great intercommunalities, the great cantons, the great regions, in short, the great machins. For once, Parliament has devoted time to the basic republican cell, which, since the French Revolution, dear André Chassaigne, is the commune. In this regard, we have collectively achieved a cultural movement that is in the right direction. In any case, the Government and Parliament have legislated as local elected officials. It's the best they could do to pay tribute to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u107	In the general debate, Mrs Cécile Untermaier spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u108	On Wednesday, 11 December, the Joint Joint Committee decided on the final terms of the law commitment and proximity. I will not go back to our previous regrets at the CMP, particularly on the issue of water and sanitation, which we still believe must be an optional competence in the hands of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u110	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u111	Our wish was to return to this point of the NOTRE law, so disclaimed...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u112	Even the socialists agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u113	... and finally so little amended. The provision of taking a step forward and a step backwards – you are planning the compulsory transfer of this competence to intercommunality but the possibility that it will then go back to the commune – is a rather new dance step for local elected officials, but they have seen others. I will not dwell on the PLUI for a long time, but frankly, if we had wanted to simplify the lives of the mayors, it was enough to impose a SCOT – a scheme of territorial coherence – and compatible PLUs. Mayors can no longer get out of a PLU and have to start over with a PLUI, while a normative document such as SCOT is amply enough to curb the ardour of construction, especially in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u114	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u116	I remain convinced that the small intercommunality of 10,000 to 12,000 inhabitants, except in the geographical areas which require it, is costly and makes the commune lose its usefulness as a door of proximity, without constituting a relevant project space. I would like to congratulate the mayors of my constituency, who, for many, have merged two communities of communes and finally took the best of each for the greatest benefit of the citizen. It has not been difficult, but none, I believe, now wants to go back. Opacity surrounds formation, which often serves other causes. We should involve the university in the training of elected officials, give it the means to propose university degrees allowing them to benefit at a lower price from a quality service enabling them to build – why not – their future professional life. It is true that this concerns the status of the elected representative, a problem which the text was not intended to solve. The CMP has fulfilled its function: it has resulted in a compromise. I do not deny the need to find a final path, but it is regrettable that it is often to the detriment of the agreements between the Government and the parliamentary opposition of the Assembly. It is precisely these agreements that must be given priority when seeking a compromise. In my personal capacity, I regretted that this was done at the expense of ethics. In the current context, it is incredible that we sacrifice the ethics considered, I was told, as "a bobo walker thing"! You'll appreciate it. Recent developments, alas, have spoken. In the silence of the law, some communities have taken the initiative to put in place competent ethical structures for elected officials. This is the case, for example, in the city of Strasbourg, but rural municipalities must also be able to benefit from the voluntary councils, on which case law has been passed in a protective manner for the elected representatives. They must be protected against the high risk of criminal conviction, by providing them with any advice useful to respect the ethical principles enshrined in the local elected official's charter. I fight, like you, punitive ethics. Ethics is not an end in itself. Ideas and competence are the demands of a successful political life. In order not to unnecessarily multiply structures, a common ethical forum for elected officials and officials should be established. In addition, the feeling that there is double standards for the various populations in terms of obligations would be avoided unnecessarily, as highlighted by the HATVP – High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life – in its ethical guide. The solution is all the more justified because principles and ethical issues are widely common to public officials and elected officials. Thank you, Minister, for agreeing to support an amendment proposed by the LaREM Group and myself. It wasn't an ordinary gesture. If I regret that this amendment did not survive, I have no doubt that by working upstream, perhaps with the rapporteur, we will be able to convince the Senate that it is not a "bobo thing," but a new right, which we must give to the elected representatives of our rural communes and our small and medium-sized towns. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The majority of the Socialist and related groups will vote in favour of the bill. Personally, I would like to thank you for allowing a clear and open dialogue throughout the discussion of the text. I would like to wish you and my colleagues from all groups a good holiday at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u117	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u118	Echoing the lasting distrust between the French people and their government, relations between the state and the communities also deteriorated significantly during the legislature. The associations of the mayors, departments and regions of France even went so far as to boycott the National Conference of Territories in July 2018, thus marking their disagreement with the policies of your government against local authorities. Several factors explain the anger of local elected officials, such as the establishment of local expenditure control contracts. This is an unfair measure, which imposes new rules of fiscal austerity. Many communities have refused to sign these contracts, like the Ariège departmental council, which believes that it has already taken a series of measures to bring its operating budget back to balance. It is impossible to make additional efforts. Moreover, the State's contribution to the financing of individual solidarity allowances is still considered to be very clearly insufficient by the departmental elected officials, despite the creation of the horizontal interdepartmental support fund for equalization and the stabilization fund. The constant increase in the burden that ISAs represent for the departments, without a lasting financing solution, is not sustainable over the long term. In Ariège, for example, for active solidarity income alone, the annual payment amount has doubled since 2004, year of the transfer of burden, while since then the State compensation has not increased. Finally, many elected officials, especially from rural territories, note that the Government is pursuing a policy of destroying public services. They deplore in particular the acceleration of the deterioration of rail transport services, the closures of beds or even of whole services in hospitals, or the restructuring of the network of the Directorate-General for Public Finance leading to the disappearance of cash, replaced by obscurs of proximity receptions. The logic of metropolization also threatens the local democratic organization, a precious legacy of the French Revolution, as the minister recalled. The places of debate and decision-making centres are increasingly moving away from citizens. The municipalities are called into question for the benefit of the public institutions of intercommunal cooperation – the EPCIs – in which they must be integrated, constrained and forced. The role of mayors is less and less valued. This is probably one of the main causes of the crisis in the vocations of these elected officials, half of whom would not want to run for a new term. During the review of the bill, we sought to make improvements along two lines: expanding the mayor's police powers to serve the ecological transition; the municipality as the centrepiece of democracy at the local level. We believe that the municipal councils must be able to oppose the construction or extension of peripheral commercial areas, which are primarily responsible for the agony of the city centres. In my constituency, the largest city is Pamiers, where there are just under 16,000 inhabitants; It is one of the twenty-nine cities of similar size in France with a commercial vacation rate of more than 15%. You have ruled this proposal inadmissible. We want rental evictions to be subject to notification of a rehousing solution in which the mayor and the city council can take part. You have ruled this proposal inadmissible. We suggest a mechanism for consulting the inhabitants through the organisation of citizen voting on all major communal subjects, whose municipal council would commit itself to respecting the result. You have ruled this proposal inadmissible. We wish to enshrine a right of dismissal of municipal and community elected representatives on the basis of a petition of 5% of the inhabitants of the municipality. You have ruled this proposal inadmissible. We want to set up a citizen debate of ecological orientation at the municipal level, prevent the compulsory transfer of water and sanitation skills to the EPCI, guarantee the transparency of the allowances of elected officials, etc. You rejected our proposals. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] France is unsubstantiated in its defence of a republican vision of territorial organization. We support the need to base it on the principles of territorial equality and popular intervention, because the fair recognition of the importance of municipalities guarantees the proximity of citizens to their Republic. Our view is in contrast to the territorial differentiation advocated by this government, which wants to compete with each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u119	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u120	If some pieces of legislation move along the ridge of the battle for ideas, the logic of political consensus should prevail for others, for example for the Bill engagement and proximity, which, in your own words, Minister, should meet the expectations of local elected officials and resolve the crisis of citizen engagement. In addition, he had to correct a number of "irritants", to use a popular expression, of the NOTRE law. At the end of our debates, however, it must be noted that the road to reaching this consensus was long and fraught with difficulties. The fault lies with the majority, who, particularly on the question of water and sanitation, have kept on maintaining a closed position, full of contradictions, against winds and tides.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u121	It's a big mistake.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u122	It is after a long process that we have managed to obtain the device contained in the text of the CMP,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u123	This is already what the Government's text provided for!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u124	... which, let us not be deceived, is a lesser evil in relation to our initial objectives. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In the name of communal freedom, we always wanted and wanted the abolition of the compulsory transfer of water and sanitation skills to communities of communes and communities of agglomeration. We wanted to give this expression of confidence to the mayors, who seem to us the most legitimate to provide this service essential to the well-being of the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u125	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u126	The consensus process was also hampered by the total renunciation of the majority to set a limit of between sixty and one hundred and twenty days per year for Airbnb rentals. However, there is an urgent need for further supervision of this short-term rental arrangement, which affects access to housing and the lives of our neighbourhoods. Finally, how not to raise the issue of parity, a great sacrifice of the CMP,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u127	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u128	... when this subject is fundamental and consubstantial to our requirement of republican equality? During our debates, your majority and the minister have repeatedly called for the triumph of the Gironde, in a sometimes poorly nuanced view of history, acknowledge it. Let me remind you of what his most famous representative said in 1791: "The woman has the right to go up to the scaffold; It must also have the right to go up to the rostrum. Olympus de Gouges would certainly have had very little taste in referring the question of parity to the Greek calendes announced by this government. This missed new opportunity does not honor national representation. Despite these disappointments, we do not wish to overshadow the ray of joy, even if it seems meagre in view of the ambitions displayed. I am thinking first of all of the arrangements proposed by my group president, André Chassaigne, which will allow, at the initiative of the inhabitants of the municipalities of less than 3500 inhabitants, the setting up of advisory councils in order to extend the possibilities of direct participation of the inhabitants in local life. This will strengthen participatory democracy, which, in our view, is too absent from the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u129	The most revolutionary measure of the text...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u130	They're preparing for the big night of local democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u131	I am also thinking of the extension of the power of mayors to impose administrative fines in the event of non-compliance with the ban on the sale of alcohol to be taken away by the municipality. This is an important step forward for many of us, especially the elected one of Seine-Saint-Denis that I am. Finally, we should welcome the choice made by the Joint Joint Committee on the thorny subject of the allowances of elected officials. The version of the Senate was the best of both: it will allow the new mayors to avoid, politically unsustainable situation, having to ask for an increase in their compensation before their municipal council, from the funds of the commune. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In the end, you will understand, it is with deep regret that the GDR group will not vote in favour of the bill but will abstain. We look forward to the necessary legislative work that will enable us to evaluate and counter the supra-municipal logics that now prevail in inter-communal organization, contentless giganism and technocratization, as well as the exhaustion of communal and democratic life, which prevents useful cooperation from being built. Such a response is essential in order to respond to the democratic and territorial crisis; But we'll have to wait.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u132	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u133	In any matter, the substance is as valuable as the form. With regard to the text on which we agreed in the CMP and which was unanimously adopted by the Senate, success is complete.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u134	That's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u135	I listened to the comments of those who preceded me in the rostrum: the spin effects disguise the consensus rather poorly...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u136	It's more like a compromise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u137	...that we have been able to find and advance here. The final text indeed takes up much of what you have built, I would say even more co-built with us. Let's talk first about the method. We had all identified a difficulty, because, whatever we say, we are all elected on the ground and know our constituencies: the NOTRE law is dysfunctional. In view of this, we have carried out numerous tests, in a disorderly manner, through the multitude of texts relating to water and sanitation, as well as a text relating to the new municipalities and the diversity of the territories. These attempts, a little disorganized, have never been able to solve the problems identified. This text, on the other hand, is the relevant tool to begin to seize the problem and solve some of the problems specific to the communal bloc and intercommunality, as you said. The drafting of the text has been collective, so that three actors can recognise their contribution, each for a third. The local elected representatives were the first to have made their demands heard in the context of the great national debate, and enough had been said about them. Then the handwriting returned to the Government, which offered its copy. Finally, the text came to Parliament, where everyone played their part, since the bill, prior to its consideration by parliamentarians, had thirty clauses and the one that we will pass, I hope, in a few minutes, have more than one hundred and twenty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u138	That's a lot more than a third!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u139	We have managed to correct problems that have plagued local elected officials for the past six years. Yesterday, I looked at the explanations of vote on this text in the Senate: I am pleased to see that the conflict of legitimacy that has sometimes been opposed to us disappears behind the consensus – or compromise, if you prefer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u140	It's not the same thing at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u141	We had a great responsibility to adopt these provisions before 1 January 2020, since some – dealing with water and sanitation, the lapse of land-use plans or the allowances of the union presidents of communes and joint unions – had to be voted before that date. As honourable senators have pointed out, this text marks an evolution rather than a revolution – perhaps that is what saddened the speaker who preceded me. In any case, he says a great deal of our desire to give back to the elect the will and power to do, of which they had been dispossessed. That's the message they sent to their people: Since we no longer have power, you no longer have representatives. This period is over: this is the new message we send to the inhabitants of rural communes. You are aware of the path we have taken to achieve this, you have all spoken of it: the repair of the relations between the intercommunality and the commune; clarification of competences, as a matter of priority, of those which posed the greatest difficulties – in addition to water and sanitation, urban planning and tourism, as has been said –; the guarantee given to the mayors that they will have their full place and that they will be able to give their councillors sufficient information; additional prerogatives to clarify the distribution of competences; the semi-disappearance of optional competences – the race for integration is stopped, but the reference to them is maintained in the general code of local and regional authorities since it can be legally useful. You are also aware of the provisions of the text on police powers and the status of the elected one, which takes its full form in this text. As far as compensation is concerned, a real commitment is required: freedom calls for responsibility in determining their amount and financing. The National Assembly has just voted for an increase of €28 million in the DPEL – the special allocation for local elected officials – to finance these allowances. However, the State budget is not intended to fund all the allowances of elected officials as is currently the case. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, everyone agrees that this text is a first step. Everyone now awaits – as has been said in the Senate – the 3D bill on decentralization to differentiation and deconcentration, which will complete the transformation of community law. Nevertheless, let us take the time to congratulate ourselves for what we are able to achieve collectively, in the interests of the elected representatives and therefore of all our fellow citizens, whom they represent. In a fractured and hysterized society, in a world where suspicion and emotion triumph over rationality, there remain elected officials who hold the Republican pact together, there remain those who organize and deploy the public service on which our fellow citizens rely. The adoption of this text is a way of saying thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u142	Bravo! Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u143	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u144	The Joint Joint Committee has reached an agreement, demonstrating the vitality of bicameralism, since the text which emerged from it and which we are discussing this morning contains many measures of consensus, adopted both on the benches of the National Assembly and in the Senate. The list of these measures is long; I will only go back to those who were or are still debating. First of all, with respect to the allowances, we welcome the fact that the Senate version was finally adopted, because our group was also calling for an automatic increase. However, this progress leaves us with a bitter taste because the expenditure will be borne by the communities themselves, by punctuating two allocations received by the departments and regions. To include increases in compensation in the law without, however, funding it is at the best of communication, at the worst of hypocrisy questioning the real desire for a better recognition of our local elected officials. Secondly, with regard to the mayor's police powers, a satisfactory balance is reached: powers are strengthened, enabling the mayor to act in a real and relevant way, but not outside the scope of his competence. Our requests for better communication between the mayor and the prosecutor's office have also been met, which will allow a renewed dialogue between the two. With regard to water and sanitation skills, it would be desirable that the wording proposed in the text should finally be the correct one, for obvious reasons of legal stability. While we have understood the value of the new mechanism, which retains mandatory transfer while allowing delegations, unfortunately there are still shaded areas. How will the delegation organize itself? According to what specifications? What will be the terms of the financial balance sheet? My colleague Pascal Brindeau has defended amendments on this subject in vain; It would have been welcome if the clarifications he advocated were taken into account. We are now concerned that the exercise of this faculty may be stumbling into practical difficulties. Finally, day-to-day support measures such as child care, hourly credits, or reimbursement of travel expenses are welcome. We are, on the other hand, dubious about certain provisions. This is particularly the case with regard to the consequences of the derogations procedures for the withdrawal of a municipality member of an EPCI, which remain far too vague. In our view, the stability of the perimeters of the groupings of communities must be preserved to the maximum; the possibility of withdrawal in this text may create harmful instability. Nor does the text provide answers on the relations between local elected representatives and the central administration or on the place that citizens must occupy in the midst of all this institutional arrangement, contrary to the wishes of our colleague Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier. If, indisputably, there is a need to restore a little vitality at the communal level, the bill does not change the current paradigm we are undergoing, marked by the complexity of the territorial millennium. In conclusion, the discussions focused on many points, some technical, some practical, ultimately leading to a large set that leaves us mixed and does not fully satisfy the local elected representatives. However, because the members of the IDU, Action and Independent Group support the right measures in this text, they will vote in favour of it. If everything that facilitates the daily lives of elected officials is positive, then real political choices need to be made. The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities is committed to presenting a text on decentralization, deconcentration and differentiation: it will have to be extremely ambitious and less restrictive than the debates that end this morning, in order to meet the expectations of the elected representatives and the demands of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u145	On the bill as a whole, I have a request for a public vote before me by the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u146	After a joint committee in which we worked constructively with our colleagues in the Senate, I am pleased that we are about to adopt the text on engagement in local life and proximity to public action. We are satisfied both in form and substance. First of all, we would like to express our satisfaction at the progress of the work. Throughout the discussion of the text, in committee, in open session and finally in the Joint Joint Committee, we had high quality, calm and constructive debates. All the sensitivities and opinions of the two assemblies were heard. It is the result of a work of listening and exchange, both on the part of the rapporteur of the National Assembly and the rapporteurs of the Senate, the minister and his cabinet. In substance, this text was very much expected in our territories. Its ambition is clear: to propose simplifications and relaxations in order to fluidize relations in the intercommunities and to strengthen the mayor's police powers. At first reading, the Senate added eighty-five articles to the original draft; the National Assembly managed to establish a certain balance that served as the basis for discussion at the CMP. In concrete terms, the text improves the relations between the municipalities and the EPCIs, in particular by improving the information of the municipal elected representatives on the deliberations taken by the Community Council. It also fluidizes the distribution and exercise of tourism competence and assigns the classification power to the competent authority closest to the territory, i.e. the prefect. The EPCI perimeters are relaxed, without detricting the intercommunality. For example, we have abolished the gender review of departmental schemes for intercommunal cooperation and opened the possibility for a community of agglomeration or a community of communes that wishes to be divided. In addition, the text now allows for the operation of a municipal council in case of incompleteness. We have also strengthened – it was expected – the mayor's police powers, in particular to monitor compliance with the safety rules for establishments receiving from the public or the closure of the liquor outlets on grounds of public order. Finally, we have achieved concrete and immediate progress in strengthening the rights and recognition of local elected officials, in order to promote reconciliation between working life and the exercise of a local mandate. On all these measures, consensus was easy, but other provisions were rewritten to reach a compromise with the Senate. Thus, adjustments have been made to the governance pact, including the introduction of an opinion of the municipal councils and the possibility for the conference of mayors to meet four times a year instead of two. During the CMP, we also endorsed the deletion of the category of optional competences – logical choice, since there was only one remaining. The new wording of Article 5 on "water" and "sanitation" competences introduces an intelligent mechanism for delegation of the EPCl to the municipalities, which does not call into question the mandatory nature of the transfer of this competence. We welcome the common ground on parity – a subject that was highlighted by the MODEM Group, among others. A re-visitation clause has been introduced and a reform will have to be adopted before 31 December 2021. It is a position of balance, which seems to me quite interesting. Moreover, we have strengthened the powers of mayors over short-term rentals, of the type Airbnb, by increasing their means of control. The MODEM Group, particularly interested in this subject, will continue to pay attention to the measures to be taken in this area. Finally, we have increased the allowances of elected officials by re-establishing the provisions adopted by the Senate and supported by the MODEM group. [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] This bill contains significant progress, much expected by elected officials on the ground. The work of the Minister, the National Assembly and the Senate has resulted in a quality text, to which the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will naturally lend its full support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u147	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u148	The local elected representatives are invited in this text, which aims to restore the link between the state and the elected representatives, whom we so much need in the territories – which you know well, Minister. This issue had emerged in the great national debate: after eighty days of debate and ninety-two hours spent with the elected officials, the President of the Republic had measured the state of distrust. The Libertés et Territoires Group has always defended the need to take more account of intermediate bodies and local elected representatives, who are not barriers to change but who are accompanying them, who are – as you all know, ladies and gentlemen – at the service of the general interest. We have prepared the report "50 proposals to make the Territories stronger and more self-sustaining", whose aim is to enable elected officials to better carry out their missions and to strengthen local authorities, at the service of our fellow citizens. The bill provides some solutions. Of course, it does not create a real status for the elected one, as we could expect, but the work has been done in good intelligence with you, Minister, and your services: I would like to salute your team and the spirit of openness that you have demonstrated throughout the course of the text; This is not frequent, and deserves to be welcomed. We have called for better communication and greater transparency in the relations between municipalities and intercommunalities: one of our adopted amendments provides that municipal councillors of the municipalities that are members of an EPCI and are not members of its deliberative body must be explicitly informed of the affairs of the institution that are the subject of deliberation. Much has been said about the transfer of "water" and "sanitation" skills: some of our colleagues, such as Jeanine Dubie, regret that we have not returned to the optional mode. You have been willing to relax the villainous NOTRE law, whose damage we measure every day on the ground. I simply invite you, as I have had the opportunity to tell your colleagues, Minister, to issue the right decrees within the next few days and to make sure that the Directorate General to the local authorities transmits the right directives to the prefects, in order to avoid a disparate application of the law in the country. There is a lot of tension in the territories: you have extended the easing process in the CMP, but we have to go to the end of the road and avoid that intercommunalities can play a blocking role. That would be the destruction of a strong step forward in this text, and I am the spokesman of all my colleagues on this point. The text contains a step forward in allowing tourist municipalities which are not classified as tourist resorts to regain the competence to promote tourism, thus creating tourist offices: we support this measure, which we proposed in several amendments. We would also like to welcome the relaxation of the minimum rules for the financial participation of contractors, particularly in the field of external fire defence – a measure that we defended in an amendment developed with your colleague from the Eure, Senator Hervé Maurey. Similarly, measures in the area of the law of elected representatives, including the revalorisation of allowances in small municipalities, are in the right direction. The drafting adopted by the CMP, which came out of the Senate, agrees with us, because the mayors of the small communes will be automatically increased, in three tranches, which will prevent them from taking this difficult decision themselves. As far as parity is concerned, in order not to hide anything from you, our group's position overlaps with that expressed in CMP: it is absolutely necessary to move forward in the communes of less than 1000 inhabitants, but it is necessary to take the time to reach a balance solution. However, we regret a battlehorse by our colleague Jean-Félix Acquaviva: the strengthening of the mayor's police power, in particular in order to remedy the owner's shortcomings. We regret that we have not been able to reach a conclusion on this major issue, particularly for the community of Corsica, and I hope that we will find a solution in the coming months. In total, minister, this text is a first step, which precedes the famous 3D bill – indeed, all the speakers who preceded me said that this first step should be followed by a major step. The 3D bill must not be a missed appointment, but a powerful step forward in deconcentration, decentralization and differentiation, in order to strengthen communities. There will be no high growth in territories without strong local authorities. There will be no trust between actors without an ambitious law: the Chevènement laws opened a way a few years ago, and you will be able to count on our group to support your approach, if the spirit of openness prevails and greater trust is given to local elected officials, who must be responsible and have a definite role. To accomplish this evolution, know that once again we will be at the rendezvous. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] The Liberties and Territories Group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u149	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u150	I must say it's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u151	The text deals with an essential subject, democracy, the pillar of which is local democracy. During the discussion, we made a great deal of reference to Tocqueville's thinking and to the idea that democracy was being built in the commune – the basic social level. This is where the most understandable and acceptable public decision is drawn up by our fellow citizens. I would like to thank my colleagues for the tone and manner in which we examined the bill. Mr Minister, the rapporteur, we must stress the quality of our discussions, although there have been quite a few points of divergence. The text was intended to reposition the mayor to put democracy back at the heart of our local system: I think it's done! Despite the quality of our discussions, we have seen that the new rules of procedure of the Assembly raise some democratic questions. Madam Chair of the Law Committee, I have still not understood the application of Article 45 of the Constitution: for example, amendments on the rural guards, armed arms of the mayor's police power – the subject in the text – have been rejected, while others on the evolution of the voting system and parity, or on consular advisers – subjects absent from the original version of the text – have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u152	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u153	I also regret, Mr Cazeneuve, that no amendment by the delegation to local authorities and decentralization has been accepted. We can all share this disappointment in this House. In the end, Mr Houlié, we are not reaching a consensus, but a compromise. We find ourselves largely in the latter, because you were caught up in your own game, minister: the schedule for the bill's review. Because of the need for the text to enter into force on 1 January 2020 and the willingness to examine it at first reading in the National Assembly the week of the Congress of Mayors, you have been forced to accept many proposals from the Republican Group. In particular, I am satisfied with the removal of the optional powers, defended by the Republicans of the Senate group – in this regard, I would like to acknowledge the work done with my colleague MP Arnaud Viala and my colleague Senator Mathieu Darnaud. On the allowances of local elected officials, the Senate's version was retained – an important victory, as this issue is in line with their status. Local elected officials must be responsible for their choices and policies, but the legislator is responsible for their status and therefore for their remuneration and allowances. This was the only acceptable solution. It is wise to refer the evolution of the voting system and the widening of parity in municipalities of less than 1000 inhabitants to a thorough reflection. I regret the compromise on "water" and "sanitation" skills, when courage would have ordered simply to correct the error of the NOTRE law. The text established a complex mechanism, the implementation of which would create a great deal of tension in the territories. [[Mr. Vincent Bru applauds]] For all these reasons and because you have accepted many of our proposals, we will vote in favour of this text after abstaining at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u154	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u155	We expect a lot from the 3D bill, which will be introduced next year. Local democracy must be deepened. Together with my colleague Bruno Questel, yesterday we issued an information report on the evaluation of the NOTRE law. There is much to be done at the inter-municipal level as well as at the regional level: it would be necessary to offer the territories that function well outside their large region – I think Alsace – the ability to get out of these suffocating administrative tools. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-Agir and LT groups as well as on a few benches of the MODEM group]] "In an increasingly virtual world, in an economy that was abstract from distance and duration, it is by regaining the reality of the territory that we will find man again": this quote by Philippe Séguin is dear to me, because it puts local democracy at the heart of our action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u156	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u157	I put the bill as a whole to the vote in light of the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u158	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 105 Number of votes cast 95 Absolute majority 48 For adoption 94 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u159	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u160	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u161	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on combating waste and the circular economy (No. 2274, 2454).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u162	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, ending with section 8 ter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u163	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u164	The examination of Article 8b allows us to address the fundamental question of water and its uses, which must be one of the first sources of savings in this field. The purpose of this article is to develop the reuse of treated wastewater and the use of rainwater, in place of drinking water, and to include them in our national water treatment objectives. This first step is welcome. However, there is an urgent need to collectively accelerate – within the public authorities in the first place – the pace at which we take this major issue into account. Indeed, water shortages are increasing, and more than a million of our citizens are struggling to pay their bills. In addition, we reuse only 0.1% of our treated wastewater, compared with an average of 2 % in the European Union. [[Jean-Charles Colas-Roy and Nathalie Sarles applaud]] In the light of these few figures, I believe that it is time to act – Madam Secretary of State, I know I can count on you – not only to save water, but also to develop alternative deposits, in particular by recovering rainwater. It is essential to support the actions undertaken in this area and to project them in the future, in order to respond to the challenges of our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u165	We come to the amendments. Amendments Nos 1916, 2512, 692 and 696 may be subject to joint discussion. I call Mr Guillaume Garot to support Amendment No. 1916.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u166	The aim of the amendment we are defending is to increase by three the quantities of treated waste water reused, in line with one of the conclusions of the second phase of the Water Assembly. It is a question of taking advantage of the opportunity provided by this bill to assign this objective to our public policies. It is necessary to explain to the French what is very concrete about it. This makes it possible to waste less water, thanks to its reuse for uses that do not require drinking water, such as vehicle cleaning and street sweeping. It is part of a circular approach to the economy, and especially to resource protection. Given the changing climate, we obviously need to move in this direction. As Mr Zulesi has just pointed out, at present only 0.1 % of our water consumption is produced. There are about seventy facilities in France. It's about going much further.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u167	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor to support Amendment No. 2512.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u168	I will simply recall two figures: in France, 19,000 cubic metres of water are reused every day, compared with 800,000 in Italy. The aim of the amendment is to multiply by three the quantities of treated waste water reused, in line with the conclusions of the second phase of the Water Assembly. This objective seems modest enough for us to be able to include it in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u169	On Amendment No 692, I have a request from the Libertés et Territoires Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendments Nos 692 and 696 may be presented in a consolidated format. Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u170	As our colleagues Jean-Marc Zulesi, Guillaume Garot and Sereine Mauborgne have reminded us, it is no longer acceptable in France not to live up to the challenges of water reuse. It is no longer acceptable, in France, to have the best sewage treatment plants in the world, or almost, and to discard the excellent water produced therefrom in the rivers, even though it could replace water pumping, sometimes causing tragedy, such as the one at the Sivens dam, and aggravating the water crisis. It is not acceptable that we should not set ourselves any numerical targets in this area. Amendment No 692 aims to introduce into the text a very modest target for the reuse of treated wastewater: 1% in 2025 and 10% in 2030. Some countries have already reached rates of 10, 20, 30, 40 or 60 per cent reuse of wastewater treated at the outlet of wastewater treatment plants. Even though our imported strawberries, avocados and tomatoes have been watered by high-quality water from sewage treatment plants in Spain, Israel or elsewhere, here, in France, we would not allow our farmers to benefit from this resource? Would we continue to draw up a resource whose situation is sometimes critical? Perhaps we would even use lower quality water to water our own vegetables and satisfy other agricultural uses? Let's get out of this aberration! The target of 1% by 2025 and 10% by 2030 for the proportion of treated wastewater reused is not out of reach. On the contrary, it must be achieved. I'd even say he's too modest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u171	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u172	Amendment No 696 is a fallback amendment, replacing the intention with the objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u173	Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u174	I will take the time to respond in order to win later – because several amendments concern the same subject – by giving the committee's opinion on any amendment setting quantified targets for the reuse of treated wastewater and the use of rainwater. In France, we are very late in this respect, as I have shown in my report. Other countries have developed reuse of treated wastewater and use of rainwater, but not France. This will soon be a necessity, due to the scarcity of water resources. With clause 8 ter of this bill, as drafted, we are taking an important first step, as we open the possibility of replacing rainwater with drinking water and increase the possibility of reuse of treated wastewater. We will be considering a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 8b, in particular Amendment No 914 by Mr Zulesi, which seeks to improve the use of rainwater. For the time being, it seems to me premature to set a numerical target in this area. We must carry out a preliminary task of acculturation of the actors concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u175	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u176	I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on the four amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u177	1%!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u178	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u179	As some speakers have pointed out, the Water Assembly has already set a target of three times, by 2025, the volume of unconventional water used – treated wastewater is part of it. It does not seem appropriate to me to include in the law these objectives, which have been endorsed and whose implementation is under way. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u180	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u181	I would have liked my amendments to have been defended by a majority member: perhaps they would have received a more benevolent look!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u182	[[Smile]] That would have made it possible to say good of Mr Lambert!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u183	The goal is to reach 1% by 2025 – I don't know how to write 0.5% in a bill. I didn't get that number out of nowhere. Several of our colleagues – including Sereine Mauborgne – and I myself are working with French experts on the subject sent abroad. They say: "We can no longer be unable to apply in France what we know how to do in other countries! " We propose to reach 1% by 2025, no more. Madam Secretary of State, so far we have been able to put in the bill many numerical targets.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u184	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u185	And here it would not be necessary on the grounds that commitments have been made!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u186	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u187	It seems to me that setting targets in the legislation ensures that every effort is made to achieve them. If we conclude the debate on Article 8b with the adoption of a clear and firm objective, we will be able to move forward in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u188	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u189	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to come back to the ongoing negotiations, because I know you are very involved and very voluntary on this issue, particularly since the publication of our colleague Adrien Morenas' report on water resources, which makes several recommendations. To include in this bill an objective, which I would remind you is still very modest, could, I believe, encourage the Ministry of Health – the main blocking point with regard to the reuse of treated wastewater – to pave the way for experiments in this area, in accordance with Mrs Emmanuelle Wargon's request. It is a matter of giving us a little extra chance to carry out more experiments. That is why it seems to me important that we all show wisdom, all the more so – I repeat – that this is a modest objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u190	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u191	I support these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u192	Thank you, President Chassaigne!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u193	It's not Gosplan! It is all the more possible to set numerical targets in this area, contrary to what you claim, since this text already does so in a large number of articles. This is a priority issue and experiments to re-use water from wastewater treatment plants are already under way, as in the agglomeration of Narbonne for viticulture; the water from Bourdon's sugar factory in the Clermontese agglomeration is used for irrigation. There are many experiments, and while water quality research needs to be pursued, which needs to be subject to high standards, such initiatives need to be encouraged. This is all the more essential since aid for investment in irrigation is now subject to the pooling of water use. It is these synergies that must be sought in the field of water, whether in terms of its use, its treatment or its agricultural, industrial or drinking water uses. The stakes are paramount and that is why this amendment must be voted on.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u194	Mr Guillaume Garot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u195	I agree with President Chassaigne and, to be frank, I do not fully understand the position of the Government. We cannot propose a law that sets objectives – we even pushed the refinement last night to indicate a trajectory, which is a very innovative method – and "caner" as you do when we put in the law objectives that could bring us together in the face of the challenges before us, especially in terms of water resource control! I cannot explain this timidity of the Government. Why be on some topics that go very well in words if it is to stay so blocked in reality? In any event, I will support all the amendments aimed at making progress in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u196	I put to the vote Amendment No 692.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u197	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 44 Number of votes cast 40 Absolute majority 21 For adoption 11 Against 29
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u198	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor to support Amendment No. 1205.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u199	Our fellow citizens realize that the price of water is expected to rise steadily. Local elected officials, for their part, know the cost of water sanitation when it comes to making it safe to drink according to demanding standards, and it's so much better for our health. But drinking water is used for other uses – sanitary uses or for garden watering when there are no wells. As a result of environmental awareness, more and more individuals are installing rainwater waste pickers. By this amendment we propose to support this citizen's effort by requiring that the new constructions provide for a system of rainwater recovery for uses that do not require drinking water. This system will have to include an individual complementary network. Such an adaptation of constructions will obviously lead to additional investment, but these costs are not shocking given the current waste. Manufacturers are certainly aware that they too have a part to play in the fight against waste.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u200	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u201	There is something that bothers me: while the summary statement of the amendment speaks of facilitating the reuse of rainwater, the operative part of the amendment restricts their use. I therefore ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u202	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u203	Request for withdrawal also since we will consider an amendment by the rapporteur to delete the paragraph which you are requesting to be amended. If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u204	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u205	I will support Mrs Essayan's amendment on behalf of the IDU Group, Action and Independents. We must realize that water resources are one of the most affected, both by the conflicts of use – I welcome the work that Mrs Frédérique Tuffnell, as rapporteur, is carrying out in the context of the fact-finding mission on the management of conflicts of use in situations of water scarcity – and by the consequences of climate change. We French must appreciate the need for the State to take further steps in this area. Discharge of wastewater into the wild at the outlet of treatment plants while it could be used for watering at a time when water stress is most acute is a mistake for me. We could draw on the experience of many countries, including many members of the European Union, in the use of rainwater for uses that do not require water from groundwaters several thousand years ago. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and MODEM groups]] I hear, Madam Secretary of State, the reason for your unfavorable opinion, but for my part I will support this amendment, as do many of my colleagues. I would like, above all, to see that once the text is adopted, we begin a real reflection on how to preserve this resource. There will be a life after oil; There won't be any after the water.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u206	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u207	We now see an imbalance between dry summers and wet winters so that tractors can no longer go into the fields. We need to find ways to get that water back. The ELAN law was a first step, but we must continue to move forward. This idea of recovering rainwater for domestic use is really good and is in line with the circular economy – the objective of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u208	The rapporteur, Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2651 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u209	It is simply a question of specifying the conditions for the entry into force of Article 8b.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u210	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u211	Senators, as well as members of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Land Use Planning, have wished to highlight the promotion of reuse of treated wastewater and rainwater – the discussion that we have just made is a good reflection of everyone's concerns in this area. Not only does the Government share your belief that the issue is important, but it has already begun to act: this is very clear from the conclusions of the Water Assembly, which you have all quoted. The rapporteur's amendment provides for a decree to regulate the application of the principle of reuse of treated waste water and rainwater to installations and works covered by the IOTA nomenclatures – installations, works, works and activities – and ICEP – a classified facility for the protection of the environment. This decree is essential to make this provision operational, in particular for existing installations, and to avoid the legal frailties that would inevitably affect such a provision if it were to apply overnight to all existing installations. Pragmatism and operationality: that is what you keep calling your wishes and that is what is proposed to you here. That is why I am very much in favour of this amendment and that is why I am in favour of my views on the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u212	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 8b. Amendment No 914 is the subject of two sub-amendments, Nos 2591 and 2658. Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u213	As you said, Madam Secretary of State, we must be pragmatic. That is why I propose that the energy and environmental performance requirements of buildings include simple objectives to reduce the use of drinking water. The aim is to optimize the water resource by limiting the consumption of drinking water for garden watering or sanitary purposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u214	I have before me two sub-amendments, Nos 2591 and 2658, which may be presented in a consolidated format. The rapporteur, Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh, has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u215	The first sub-amendment to speed up the implementation of your proposal – as early as 2023 and not 2025 – I think, honourable Member, that you can only support it. As for the clarification sub-amendment No 2658, it tends to recognise the provisions for the recovery of rainwater as one of the means of achieving the reduction of drinking water consumption. I imagine we will join in that too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u216	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u217	Your colleague from the Republicans group is not there to make fun – nicely! – of me, Mr. Zulesi,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u218	He's jealous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u219	...I take this opportunity to thank you for all the work you do on a subject that I know you care a lot about. There is indeed much to be done in this area, without losing the concern, which characterizes you, to make decisions that are operational. I therefore express an opinion entirely in favour of your amendment. As you pointed out in your opening remarks, the use of rainwater recovery systems, if regulated, is in no way mandatory: there is no obligation to use drinking water and to install a rainwater recovery system. I am sure that this amendment will also appeal to your colleagues on the left in this House...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u220	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u221	... since it fits perfectly within the framework of the bill, which aims to save water consumption, but also within the framework of the rewriting of the code of construction and housing with a view to the institution of an obligation of result. I know how much you have worked on this issue and I am very pleased to see that we can move forward together. With regard to the sub-amendments, I issue a wisdom opinion on point 2591 and I propose the withdrawal of point 2658, otherwise the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u222	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u223	The IDU, Action and Independents Group will support this initiative, pending much more ambitious measures in the area of water management, be they drinking water, wastewater or rainwater.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u224	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor to support Amendment No. 861.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u225	He proposed that the renovation of housing should lead to a technical and economic feasibility study to assess the appropriateness of installing rainwater recovery systems.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u226	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u227	[[Smile]] We can't always agree, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u228	Yes, we can!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u229	This amendment would require owners who carry out major renovations to equip their buildings with a rainwater recovery system. I see this as a solution for the future, but the obligation seems too important to me, especially in the absence of an impact assessment – especially since the law already provides for work obligations in terms of energy efficiency of housing and the equipment of car parks in electric charging stations. Also note that some condominiums are in complicated financial situations. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u230	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u231	I share the rapporteur's arguments. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u232	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u233	I withdraw my amendment, but make it clear that it called for feasibility studies only. I have no doubt that with Amendment No 914 we will be able to achieve the objective behind it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u234	I would like to take up Amendment No 861.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u235	I have before me three amendments, Nos 1206, 858 and 859, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor to support Amendment No. 1206.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u236	It recommends that a decree specify how the obligation to install rainwater recovery systems in new buildings should be implemented. I will allow myself to go some way beyond the amendment in its strict form, to advocate that a more general communication be devoted to rainwater recovery systems and the savings they produce, and even more so to the virtuous approach they allow, in order to encourage as many people as possible to install them. This topic would lend itself to a short and playful communication, in the form of animation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u237	Amendments Nos 858 and 859 may be presented in a consolidated format. Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u238	They are intended to require the installation of rainwater recovery systems in professional premises and private dwellings. This obligation would be the result of Amendment No 914 which we adopted earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u239	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u240	They are partly satisfied with Amendment No 914 which we have just adopted, and I prefer to impose obligations of result rather than means. Article 8b also provides for the legal possibility of reuse of rainwater and treated wastewater. Finally, it would be necessary to carry out an economic and environmental impact assessment before such an obligation would be generalised. I therefore request the withdrawal of these amendments; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u241	What is the Government's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u242	I also ask for the withdrawal, especially since they are not fully compatible with Amendment No 914.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u243	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u244	Let's be pragmatic, and let's look at what others do – it's called the exchange of best practices. All Scandinavian countries and countries that lack water, such as Spain and Israel, have remarkably effective water management. For reasons related to our history, we cannot reuse sewage or recover rainwater. In today's climate, it's not serious! We need to explore more ambitious paths. There is no point in carrying out feasibility or impact studies in this area – yet everyone knows how prone I am to this type of study: let's look at what others are doing, and study in particular the solutions that work in the Member States. When I explain to Africans that we are using thousands of years old fossil waters in our toilets, they are rightly shocked. Let's look at how we can optimize the use of water. The latest study by the professional federation of water companies and the consulting firm BIPE – Bureau d'information et de prévisions économiques – shows that the water savings that can be achieved by our fellow citizens are tiny compared to those that can be made by the communities – which water their football fields with drinking water, in times of water stress! Wastewater reuse would be preferable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u245	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u246	We will need a new legislative rendezvous in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u247	That's what it takes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u248	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] We will not be able to avoid this subject. I would have hoped that in a bill dealing with the circular economy, the recovery of water would attract as much attention as a few plastic bottles and their artificial disposal for recycling.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u249	A few bottles? Do not minimize the progress of the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u250	We have devoted much more energy to introducing a recycling policy that will serve the interests of a few beverage manufacturers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u251	You're kidding!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u252	...than to water management! But water is vital, and we would be wrong to believe that we are safe from shortages. I therefore fully support the proposals of Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, a member of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u253	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u254	His remarkable work would deserve to be relayed and put to good use. Today, have the same courage for water as yesterday, when you imposed an order for plastic bottles. Let us have the audacity to move forward on the water issue, otherwise we will have to come back soon, probably in an emergency. That amendment must therefore be voted on.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u255	I have before me two amendments, Nos 841 and 738, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor to support Amendment No. 841.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u256	He recommends that in areas where water resources are scarce – they will multiply in the future – water management and management schemes should incorporate the re-use issues of some of the water bodies that are now under-exploited, such as retired wastewater.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u257	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 738.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u258	It calls for the reuse of treated wastewater, which must be integrated into water management and management schemes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u259	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u260	Although they are very interesting, these amendments seem to me to be far removed from the purpose of the bill, the circular economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u261	It's about waste water, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u262	I ask that it be withdrawn; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u263	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u264	Disfavorable for both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u265	Great!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u266	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u267	Thank you for your reply, Madam rapporteur. Having failed to understand the reason for Ms. Secretary of State's unfavorable opinion, it is only you that I can answer. You feel that we are moving away from the purpose of the bill, the circular economy, as we take on an important subject: ensuring sufficient water for everyday activities, as well as for agricultural, industrial and recreational activities. Let us take the risk of voting for this amendment, even if it is retaliated by the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u268	Let us be serious, if we know that the amendment can be retaliated!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u269	Let us demonstrate that we want to move forward, and let us vote on at least one of these amendments. We will thus contribute to the necessary rebalancing of the sources of water supply, in particular by using water at our disposal, from sewage treatment plants, so treated that their quality is better than that of pumped water in nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u270	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u271	Madam rapporteur, we are talking about a circular economy here. It is based on a simple principle: to collect, recycle and reuse. In this case, it is a matter of taking water, using it, treating it and reusing it: it is circular economy par excellence. In August, when all rivers had historically low levels, we continued to collect water from groundwater or alluvial aquifers to water football fields and public spaces. That's not acceptable! Today, the rapporteur, waste water is treated and then released into nature. Why can't we just throw her away in the wild by watering a football stadium? What's the difference? I do not understand why you object to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u272	I explained it to you: he may be retaliated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u273	Finally, I welcome the initiative of the Secretary of State to promote the use of treated water for watering, which I consider to be an accessory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u274	Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u275	I believe that water, water stress and climate change are absolutely essential issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u276	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u277	However, we must have a comprehensive approach to water rather than understanding it by the little bit of the lorgnette, which would save us a substantive debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u278	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u279	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] From a legislative point of view, a task relating to water resources is under way; Our colleagues Adrien Morenas and Frédérique Tuffnell are at work here. I would regret that we are taking dotted measures on this crucial issue of agriculture, domestic use, the recovery of rainwater and grey water. In the face of major climate change, we cannot deal with these subjects with the little bit of the lorgnette, but must give us a strong ambition. In this regard, I would be in favour of a legislative vehicle that would be promoted by all groups, rather than "measles" such as those proposed to us today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u280	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u281	I call Mrs Pompili to support Amendment No. 2264.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u282	I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that a fact-finding mission on the management of conflicts of use in situations of water scarcity has been launched by the Committee on Sustainable Development. His work is under way. I invite all those who wish to do so to bring their stone. The mission addresses the subject in substance, not, as we have just done, in a related way. This amendment is, if I may say so, a warning or appointment amendment. I am aware that he would have more of his place in a finance bill. Nevertheless, it deals with an important subject, which I wanted to address today. By this amendment, we call for the creation of a levy, based on the polluter pays principle, to be paid by companies that manufacture products whose use results in the release of micro-pollutants into water. I am thinking of medicines – rejected through urine –, cleaning products, hygiene products and cosmetics. The presence of these micropollutants makes water treatment very complicated and costly. Even at a very low concentration, they have a very negative impact on water and aquatic environments – rivers and oceans, fauna and flora. We therefore find it justified that the market makers concerned should finance part of the costs of water pollution abatement. [[Yolaine de Courson applauds]] This fee and its eco-modulation would encourage producers to design cleaner products. The revenue would go to the water agencies or be returned to the state budget under the famous "coating ceiling". They would help to develop clean-up or awareness-raising activities on water issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u283	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u284	I am personally in favour of this amendment. I myself had tabled an amendment along the same lines, but I withdrew it, because it was, in fact, part of a finance bill. We need to take up the issue of new pollutants in water with arms-to-body. You have to make an appointment. I would point out that the committee did not have time to examine this amendment, nor did it have time for mine. I would like to ask for the withdrawal, but I suggest listening to the arguments of the Secretary of State, to whom I will be attentive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u285	For the sake of clarity of the debate, Madam rapporteur, you are issuing a favourable opinion, you are relying on the wisdom of the House or are you asking for the amendment to be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u286	I'm asking for it to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u287	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u288	First of all, I thank you for the intense discussions we have had on this subject, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u289	Was this pre-requisite really necessary?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u290	When it starts like this...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u291	[["Oh! » and whispers on the benches of the SOC, LR and UDI-Agir groups]] [[Same movements]] Mr Garot, the world is divided into two: there are those who are loyal and sincere, who go to the end of their commitments and give thanks, and the others. At some point, I'm saying things!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u292	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u293	Madam President, the rapporteur, I know that you have done a great deal of work on these issues. I know your commitment to preserving biodiversity. However, as you pointed out, this discussion must take place during the consideration of the finance bill. In addition, the plate you propose goes beyond drugs and cosmetics. It is not in line with the recommendations of the Constitutional Council, which calls for a tax base to be determined on the basis of simple evidence. Therefore, the collection of the tax would be particularly complicated and costly. A more detailed analysis of the feasibility of the proposed fee should be carried out and discussed during the review of the draft finance bill. I would like to point out that a working group on fees paid to water agencies has been mandated by the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. He is co-chaired by Christophe Jerretie, MP for Corrèze, and Alain Richard, senator you know well. His work began in mid-November. Your proposal is interesting and can be studied in this context. We need to work on it longer. However, I know how much you have militated and studied these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u294	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u295	I support this common sense amendment. However, I note, Madam President, that your approach to this matter is of varying geometry. The issue of water pollution by any disruptors is not a matter of the circular economy. Ms. Maillart-Méhaignerie felt earlier that water issues should be addressed in a comprehensive framework. Water pollution is typically a problem that needs to be managed in this way. On the other hand, the issue of water reuse – treating wastewater and using it for watering in the event of water stress, for example in August, rather than rejecting it anywhere in nature – is a matter of circular economy. I do not agree with the idea that it should be dealt with in a comprehensive framework. We need to look at water resource management as well as plastic management, using common sense. Consideration of the circular economy text should be an opportunity to do so. In all sincerity, I find that this variable geometry approach is not in the sense of history.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u296	The Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u297	I have the impression that many of us have not read Article 8 ter, and I am surprised. In particular, it is intended to introduce the following passage in the relevant article of the Environmental Code: "in particular through the development of the reuse of treated wastewater and the use of rainwater as a substitute for drinking water". That is exactly what you want, ladies and gentlemen, and it is already included in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u298	It's only a goal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u299	Our concern in this regard is satisfied. However, more needs to be done on water management issues,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u300	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u301	[[The rapporteur and Ms Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie applaud]] ... particularly on pollution problems. My amendment is, as I said, an appeal amendment. I intend to fight for these issues to be placed at the heart of next year's budget debate, starting with the first discussions and not only in the autumn, when everything is already decided. I withdraw the amendment, but the message has passed. Good hearer, hi!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u302	Good luck!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u303	I don't miss it, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u304	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor to support Amendment No. 1207.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u305	We have a lot of admiration for the firefighters in our country. To combat fires, they use different water intakes, including the public drinking water system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u306	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u307	With this amendment, we propose to focus on the recovery of rainwater to feed the water points they use when fires are extinguished, in order to advance both the fight against waste and the circular economy. This would have no major drawbacks and would not be contrary to the performance of their duties. This would enrich the corpus of citizens and the already very rich one of the values of our firefighters, while at the same time saving our drinking water resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u308	How do we do it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u309	Are we setting up a second network?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u310	We can use colline water...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u311	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u312	The amendment provides that water points used to fight fires are mainly fed by rainwater. This possibility is not always open and therefore does not seem to me to be able to be generalized. In addition, there are issues related to the flow. The subject is more technical than it seems. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u313	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u314	The proposed measure does indeed raise real technical difficulties for local authorities. On the other hand, there is nothing in our law that prevents communities that wish to do so from moving in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u315	Ah, we were waiting for him! The argument of the local authorities!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u316	First of all, Mr Pancher, I hate the insinuations of this nature in the Chamber. If we need to discuss the order, let's do it in due course.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u317	Either...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u318	Second, don't try to make it look like I supported a project...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u319	It's a personal attack!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u320	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... which goes against the interests of local authorities. Many of them have much to gain. I'm sure, and you'll find out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u321	That's enough bad faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u322	We're in trouble...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u323	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u324	We propose to give priority to the use of rainwater where possible. Therefore, I do not see why you cannot accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u325	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u326	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] There's a lot of insinuation! The Poirson Law, we're gonna call it the Coca-Cola Law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u327	Mr. Pancher, please! That's not fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u328	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u329	The lobbies aren't necessarily where they think they are, Madam Secretary of State. Contrary to what you said yesterday, the federations of local elected representatives have so far! I probably should have challenged your remarks, which were not very appropriate to the circumstances. In any case, please do not attack my commitments and beliefs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u330	Facade!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u331	From the front? That's enough! I didn't wait for you, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u332	Mr. Pancher, please...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u333	Enough personal attacks!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u334	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u335	Mr Pancher, since you chose to insult me and insult my work and that of the majority,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u336	I didn't insult you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u337	...I'll tell you that you're the Trojan horse of those who want to keep making money on the backs of communities and mayors by making them think they're recycling, while much of their plastic ends up in Asia. You know that very well; you have been very much asked by what is simply called lobbies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u338	And you don't? Coca-Cola, isn't that a lobby?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u339	You're the Trojan horse for plastic lovers! They need it a lot, to send it to Asia and make money, on the backs of the French. Do you know what is provided for in the directive amendment? Divide by two the number of plastic bottles marketed, reducing it by 7 billion every year by 2030.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u340	I prefer local elected federations to Coca-Cola!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u341	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would be grateful if you would reconsider your position and stop insulting me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u342	Article 8c has been deleted by the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning. Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor to support Amendment No. 854 as corrected and to restore it. I hope that we will find serenity in our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u343	As you know, waste and floating bodies accumulate in hydraulic structures, which have nothing to do with either their production or their consumption. They can be particularly voluminous, since they range from appliances to cars. I know this all the better because there is a hydroelectric power station in my constituency in Saint-Chamas. I let you imagine the consequences for the watershed, in this case the pond of Berre, which is very dear to me. This amendment – which is not just about the Berre pond, I assure you – aims, in line with the philosophy of the bill, to provide for financial responsibility for the subsequent management of floating waste, the producers concerned or their eco-organisms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u344	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u345	In committee, we have deleted Article 8 quater, as it tended to use the extended producer liability tool – REP – for water pollution control purposes, which is not allowed by European directives. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment, Mr Zulesi.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u346	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u347	I have an unfavorable opinion, for the reason mentioned by the rapporteur. In addition, we are implementing a "zero plastic waste at sea" roadmap, developed by decision of the Interdepartmental Committee on the Sea. In this context, it is planned to specify the arrangements for the recovery of waste accumulated in rivers and upstream of hydraulic structures. It is not desirable to include a new objective in the bill, which already includes measures to that effect. I would remind you that the essence and purpose of this text is to transform in depth our consumption patterns,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u348	Stop it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u349	...through new tools, to avoid pollution of our rivers and oceans.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u350	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u351	Before withdrawing my amendment, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to commend the work you are doing under this road map. I think it is important to clarify, Madam rapporteur: with this measure, it would be less a matter of depolluting the water than of tackling the dumping of large waste upstream of the dams.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u352	Amendment No 1681 by Mr Emmanuel Maquet is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u353	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 1326.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u354	Each year, 600,000 tons of plastic end up in our oceans; We are even talking about a "seventh continent" made up of plastic deposits. This summer, there was talk of a plastic island off Corsica. The aim of this amendment is to carry out a campaign in the Mediterranean to experiment with the innovative arrangements available to us; They could make it possible to try to clean up this sea which, if we do nothing, will soon be a dead sea.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u355	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u356	Mr President, I am very sensitive to the subject of this amendment. However, it is already possible to obtain funding from ADEME, the Environment and Energy Management Agency. Moreover, your amendment does not meet the requirements for experimentation, since it does not provide for any derogation from existing legislation. Today, there is nothing to prevent such experiments from being carried out; I therefore encourage you to continue your work, to continue to exercise your prognosis and courage on this subject. On the other hand, I am asking for the amendment to be withdrawn; If not, the opinion of the committee will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u357	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u358	We must indeed salute your work and your quest, if I may say so, for innovative devices and new solutions. I shall, however, express an opinion which is unfavourable to your amendment, partly for the reasons mentioned by the rapporteur. I do not say any more because I know that the debates should not be prolonged, but I am at your disposal to discuss them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u359	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u360	I am looking for the arguments that would allow this amendment to be adopted. I think each of us knows the Island of Beauty. It is a very special territory: island, mountainous, with a strong population growth, welcoming ten times more tourists than it has a population – with all the difficulties that these contrasts bring. He is a volunteer for this experiment; He needs a tool. The proposal is made by an elected member of the region, who is very familiar with it. I don't think we're taking the risk of giving it to him. If we do not want to infantilize the territories and their elected ones, we must give them the means to prove that they can change things. The Mediterranean Sea accounts for less than 1% of the world's salt waters, but more than 7% of plastic pollution. It is renewed every 90 years, and through the bottom, so that it does not evacuate plastic floating on its surface. In ten years, it may be a dead sea, as Paul-André Colombani recalled. Abstaining today to try everything, to move as far as possible, would be a mistake to our children. The principle of the order was to capture the plastic bottles so that they did not end at sea. We propose to go much further thanks to this tool requested by the elected Corsicans. Let us therefore vote in his favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u361	I call Mrs Sarles to support Amendment No. 552.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u362	This amendment, working with the Federation of Integration Enterprises, proposes to reinforce the criterion of proximity of eco-organisms, and therefore the territorial mesh that we want to establish by this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u363	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u364	I understand the intention of the authors of the amendment: to promote the creation of local ecosystems, which provide jobs in the waste collection and treatment sector. However, the criteria set out in article L. 541-1 of the Environmental Code, in particular "environmental and technical efficiency, the economic viability of the methods of treatment envisaged and available in the vicinity for such waste, the existing outlets for these flows and the technical and economic conditions associated with these outlets", already take into account the creation of territorial value. In addition, the notion of "territorial value" remains vague: it should be clarified and clarified. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise, the Commission's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u365	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u366	I agree with the rapporteur. Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u367	Amendment No 2447 by Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u368	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 446.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u369	This amendment provides that the mayor authorises professional repairers to deposit electrical and electronic equipment free of charge in waste disposal. The aim is to consolidate the repair industry. When, for example, a television is not repairable, or the cost of repairing it would be too high, it remains in the hands of the repairer to whom it was entrusted. Not only does this one not earn money, but he must pay to deposit the device in waste disposal. Independent repairers should not be penalized when carrying out a mission normally assumed by the eco-contribution; and it is up to the mayor, who accepts them, to exempt them from these costs, which reduce their turnover.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u370	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u371	Every repairer has in his shop or in his point of sale a collector for D3E, waste electrical and electronic equipment. Article 8, as we have just adopted, generalizes their free resumption. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory. That is why I ask for his withdrawal; Otherwise, the Commission's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u372	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u373	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u374	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u375	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I would like once again to thank the rapporteur for her commitment. It takes time to explain things; So I'm going to answer her. I cannot reply to the Secretary of State, who has not provided any arguments. Madam rapporteur, the quality of your work allows me to withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u376	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 767.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u377	It aims to define legally what a "recycled raw material" is, in order to ensure its incorporation into the recycling chain. I hope that we can talk calmly and that everyone will respect the networks and the work of others. This amendment, for example, has been inspired by stakeholders in recycling, which I fully assume.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u378	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u379	The definitions contained in Article L. 541-1-1 of the Environmental Code have been transposed from European Directives. It does not seem useful to me to add the one proposed in the amendment, as the concept of "recycled raw material" is not used in the bill we are considering. Article 7 refers instead to the concept of "renewable raw materials". I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise, the Commission's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u380	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u381	Unfavorable opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u382	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to support Amendment No. 2009.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u383	He proposed inserting the following subparagraphs: "Any producer referred to in article L. 541-10-1 [of the Environmental Code] is required to develop and implement an eco-design and prevention plan aimed at reducing the use of non-renewable resources, increasing the use of recycled materials and increasing the recyclability of their products in treatment facilities based on national territory. This plan is reviewed every five years. It may be individual or common to several producers. It contains a review of the previous plan and sets out the prevention and eco-design objectives and actions to be implemented by the producer over the next five years. The eco-organism set up by producers can draw up a common plan for all its members. The individual and common plans shall be forwarded to the eco-organisation set up by the producers, which shall publish a publicly available summary after presentation to the representative body of the stakeholders in the sector. » As a result, clauses 16 and 17 of section 9 of the Bill would be deleted. The purpose of the amendment is to merge two provisions adopted by the Senate, the purpose of which is that product producers and packaging producers periodically review their products together in order to improve their eco-design. This measure incorporates the concept of a five-year plan suggested by Jacques Vernier, the chairman of the governance body for the extended-responsibility sectors, whose report strongly inspired the bill we are considering. This would require producers in the PER sectors to develop a prevention and eco-design plan every five years to ensure that their products contain more recycled materials and are more recyclable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u384	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u385	He's in favor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u386	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u387	I would like to welcome and thank Mrs Brulebois for her work, in particular with regard to the REP toy sector. For living in your beautiful Jura department, I know that there is a real reservoir of French crafts there, which must be highlighted. The purpose of this bill is to reinvigorate some of our country's historical industrial sectors, whose know-how is based on respect for the environment, as in this case. What you are proposing will help speed up eco-design, further promote the French industry and some of our beautiful companies, among others Smoby. I therefore express a very favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u388	Amendment No 2448 by Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u389	I call Mr Pahun to support Amendment No. 1208.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u390	This amendment has already been defended, but I think it is important to insist. We have already made a great deal of progress, if only by developing cigarette butt pick-up devices through financial incentives. Perhaps we should now take the opportunity to include in the law the modalities of collecting butts in public space in order to harmonize them at the national level. We're coming slowly. More and more butt bins are installed on the sidewalks, sometimes joined to the classic bins. I think it's important to plan to harmonize the collection of butts in the law, as you did for sorting bins.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u391	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u392	I understand the reasons behind the amendment, but the eco-organisms will be best able to define the best ways of collecting butts. Thanks to the new REP line we have created, the facilities for the recovery of butts can be taken care of. In addition, the collection of butts is a matter of "cleanliness of public space" rather than "collection of household waste". Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u393	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u394	The same view, because it seems to me that we must proceed in stages if we are to have a chance of success. As a first step, we had to confront the tobacco industry. I would like to take this opportunity to stress once again the importance of this text, which gives us the means to combat lobbies because, in this particular case, tobacco manufacturers have tried to oppose our measures. We have succeeded, by working on it, in imposing on them the creation of a tobacco polluter-pays sector. It will be launched from 2021. Work on the establishment of this sector has begun, at the initiative of tobacco producers. They are now focusing on the preparation of a state of affairs before entering into a phase of consultation with all stakeholders. It is only in this context that the modalities for deploying the collection of butts in public space can be studied. Everything in its time. You know, honourable Member, that we have had some of your proposals from the beginning. Let us take the time to ensure that these measures actually apply in our territories. Unfavorable opinion, but you understand the reasons, which are purely technical.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u395	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u396	I maintain my amendment because I regret that this mention is not included in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u397	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 140.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u398	We have been working for a number of years to increase the collection and sorting rate. A single sorting rule, a single scheme for the entire national territory, would harmonise the collection scheme and simplify the sorting procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u399	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u400	There are now at least four different patterns of household waste collection. ADEME, in its report on the harmonization of collection patterns, recommended that priority be given to two: the multi-material scheme and the plastic-metal paper-carton scheme, with glass being collected separately. On the other hand, the colour of the bins must be progressively harmonised. The law plans to advance this harmonization from 2025 to the end of 2022. We must maintain that ambition. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u401	Amendments Nos 2449 and 2450 by Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh are editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u402	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 1151.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u403	It tends to encourage, by even further accompanying them, communities to harmonize sorting instructions throughout the territory. As I pointed out in committee today, the conditions for collection, in bins or garbage bags, differ between Lille, Strasbourg, Brest and Perpignan. We need to speed up the harmonisation of collection patterns in France. The aim of this amendment is therefore to ensure that the eco-organisms are even more supportive of this movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u404	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u405	The bill already provides for producers to accompany the transition. I do not think it would be useful to clarify further, especially since such accompaniment could take various forms. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u406	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 1723.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u407	If the measures taken to encourage eco-organisms to accompany communities were effective, waste collection would not be so badly organised. In order to harmonise relations between communities and producers and to improve the financing of public waste management, Amendment No 1723 seeks to remove the concept of optimisation of collection, which is not defined.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u408	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u409	Mrs Auconia, with regard to your amendment No 1151, I stress that Article 8 provides for the establishment of a technical committee in which communities are integrated. Your request is met. With regard to Amendment No 1723, it is true that the cost-optimised calculation does not cover much of the costs of waste collection and treatment. However, the deletion of the word "optimized" alone would not alter the calculation of this coverage, as paragraph 10 of Article 9 refers to reference costs as the basis for calculation and compensation. The term should also be changed to include, for example, compensation for average costs. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u410	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u411	Same opinion for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u412	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 6 and 160. Mr Gérard Menuel has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u413	This amendment by Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier seeks to redefine the budget base of the eco-organism dedicated to household packaging in order to integrate all products outside the home and to return to the principle of 100% coverage of the net costs of sorting, now set by the Grenelle I law at 80%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u414	Amendment No 160 by Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u415	The second part of this amendment is already satisfied because the packaging REP takes into account packaging consumed outside the home. They are therefore integrated into the calculation of eco-contributions. As for the first part, I am in favour of taking over 80% of the average costs rather than 100% of the optimized costs. Indeed, the definition of optimisation is still uncertain, while the concept of average costs is very clear. In addition, this approach ensures that 100% of the average costs for overseas countries and territories are maintained. I invite you to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u416	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u417	Same opinion for the same reasons. I would add that it is not the Government that negotiates the rate of optimized net cost coverage for collection and sorting. This percentage was negotiated at the time by the community associations, which have responsibility for it. I have proposed, in the course of discussions on the measures relating to the directive, that we move forward on this subject. Unfortunately, it was not the solution that was chosen after this war of trenches. I regret that, but it is not for the Government to assume such a responsibility; It's up to the communities to make their decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u418	It's not a trench war, it's negotiations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u419	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u420	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] We're turning around the same subject. The decision may not be in the hands of the Government, but Parliament could no doubt take steps to ensure that the bottles captured are recycled. Indeed, after our debates last night about the deposit, let us remember that if 99% of the bottles are collected, a good part is not recycled. Some Members of the majority said yesterday that 7 billion bottles were found in nature. That's not true. Mr Colas-Roy, who knows the subject better, has blown me the figure of 200 million, which has nothing to do with the 7 billion advanced by some.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u421	Here we go, it's gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u422	We need to make rapid progress in this area. This is the purpose of this common sense amendment, much expected by the communities to accelerate the movement. I understand the problem, Madam Secretary of State, but we are the representatives of the people and we must act in a sovereign manner. It would be regrettable to reject this amendment, which we could adopt without problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u423	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1209 and 1210, which can be presented together. Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u424	Citeo must reimburse local authorities 80% of their collection costs. Given the wide disparity in local authorities, the potential cost is calculated based on scenarios of collection and treatment that are far removed from the actual expenditures of the communities. Amendment No 1209 therefore seeks to modify the method of calculation to take account of the average costs and thus bring themselves closer to the actual operating costs, while providing for an update at each beginning of the year in order to reimburse the sums not collected. Amendment No 1210 is a fallback amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u425	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u426	I give an unfavorable opinion to this amendment, as I will give to all the amendments which will tend to change the rate of 80% of the optimized costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u427	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u428	Same opinion for reasons I have already outlined.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u429	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 778.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u430	I am surprised that Amendments Nos 196 and 2239 have not been defended, especially since I tabled a sub-amendment to include Corsica. Let's talk about it anyway. Corsica presents special constraints, which I have already listed but which I give back here: it is an island-mountain growing population, which welcomes ten times more tourists than inhabitants. As such, it should be treated as ultramarine communities, which benefit from more favourable waste treatment provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u431	On Amendment No 1211, I have a request from the Libertés et territoires and the Mouvement Démocrates et affiliés groups for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 778?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u432	I have already had the opportunity to discuss the matter with some Corsican Members, who have understood our position. The situation in Corsica cannot be assimilated to that of the overseas departments and regions without infringing the Constitution. During the sweeping meetings in committee, I had suggested another approach, based on criteria – such as management costs, tourist influx or insularity – that seemed more solid and constructive to me than the mere mention of Corsica in the text; the proposal was not accepted. I would also like to point out that Corsica can fully introduce specific arrangements, but it is up to it to provide for them. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u433	The rapporteur, Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2618.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u434	It plans to reallocate in the form of investment support the operating support expenditure which would not have been made by the eco-organisations in the event of insufficient performance of the sector. This may seem technical; In fact, this will help to shift the amount of eco-contributions that will not have been used if recycling targets are not met. Several industrial structures, particularly in the paper sector, would deserve such support. This will make it possible to make the necessary investments to allow the sorting instructions to be extended to all plastic packagings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u435	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u436	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u437	On the identical amendments Nos 2127 and 2149, I have a request from the Libertés et Territoires Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Pahun to support Amendment No. 1211.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u438	Currently, the collection of butts is entirely the responsibility of the communities; This cost includes the maintenance of public squares, on which the butt is the most frequently found waste. The tobacco products PER must contribute to the financing of prevention and management of these wastes. The planned amount of this contribution is currently 6 million euros: is it enough to finance anything other than awareness campaigns, for example the cleaning of butts on the road, which costs on average 13000 euros per kilometre per year to the communities? We must provide guarantees to communities by obliging the eco-organism to cover the cost of cleaning, in accordance with the European directive. I saw this morning the video of Mrs Maillart-Méhaignerie, in which our colleague stressed the importance of having the polluter bear the cleaning costs. We would all be happy to be able to return to the riding tomorrow and tell our elected officials that the problem will be solved by the REP butts. Deciding to have the producer pay a share in the community's butt cleaning, it would be a nice Christmas present for all our communes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u439	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u440	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u441	You will be able to give them this Christmas gift, Mr Pahun, since the amendment is satisfied: it is up to the eco-organisms to pay for the costs of collecting and treating waste that falls within their REP line. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to your commitment and your work to move the lines about butts. Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u442	Stop smoking!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u443	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u444	I know how much you're involved in this, Mr. Pahun, and how much you've worked.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u445	Yes, he's a good congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u446	Nevertheless, I believe that your amendment is satisfactory. You have worked with the ruralists, whom I have met myself, and I propose that you continue this collaboration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u447	It's moping...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u448	Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u449	Our colleague is not sensitive to flatteries!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u450	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u451	[[Smile]] Indeed, I am not sensitive to flatteries, Madam Minister. I could be, because I know how much you have accompanied us in this fight against the butts, which has remained in the shadow of the one on the set-up when it is of paramount importance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u452	We agree, it's a shame.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u453	I have filed a request for a public ballot so that we can climb this principle into the marble.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u454	He's already there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u455	No, the rapporteur, because the REP remains to be built and its field is vast. Yesterday I received a text message from the Buralists, who told us: "Go ahead, we will help you and work with you. I assure you that I have not suffered from the pressure of the tabbaters on this matter and I hope that we will adopt the amendment by public vote in order to help you, Madam Minister, in the discussions that we will have in March – I hope – on the scourge of butts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u456	Tobacco is a scourge!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u457	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1211.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u458	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 39 Number of votes cast 33 Absolute majority 17 For adoption 11 Against 22
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u459	I have before me three amendments, Nos 2127, 2149 and 1111, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 2127 and 2149 are identical. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2127.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u460	It aims to reinforce the obligation of packaging producers to contribute to the deployment of collection devices for the recycling of packaging consumed out-of-home. Indeed, it is the type of packaging that poses the most problems, as we saw yesterday: the separate collection rate is close to zero, hence the need to involve eco-organisms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u461	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor to support Amendment No. 2149.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u462	This is a very good amendment – by being repeated, the message will eventually pass! Users sort their plastic bottles very well: 80% of French people do so and the recycling rate reaches 75%. There is still a need for effort, but I believe that communities will provide it gradually. It is for the outside environment, said diffuse, that the pack hurts. The amendment is therefore simple: it aims to ensure that eco-organisms participate in the work of collection by setting themselves as a target to collect 90% of the plastics consumed outside the home, i.e. in all places where drinks can be consumed in plastic bottles. It involves the deployment of collection devices – garbage bins, recycling places – close to any facility receiving from the public and any packaged food trade intended for consumption on site. Then we'll stop breaking our feet with the set-up, which is useless since the collection will have been enough to achieve our goals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u463	But yes...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u464	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor to support Amendment No. 1111.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u465	Presented at the initiative of our colleague Stéphane Viry, he tends to reinforce the obligation of packaging producers to contribute to the deployment of collection devices for the recycling of packaging consumed out-of-home. It also aims to ensure that the support provided by eco-organisms for the deployment of a separate collection mechanism for packaging consumed out-of-home will be ambitious enough to put France on the path of the objective of the European Directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u466	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u467	The amendments go back in part to the debate we have had on the record. They propose to increase funding by eco-organizations for the collection of street packaging. However, I do not think this is compatible with the desire expressed by the communities to maintain control over waste collection and treatment. I see no reason to depart from the principle of 80 per cent cost coverage, which prevails for household waste. In addition, we have already, in committee, generalised the management by eco-organisms of differentiated out-of-home sorting baskets. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u468	That's not an answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u469	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u470	Opinions against all amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u471	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u472	It is not a question of reopening the debate on the order, but of ensuring that eco-organisms are finally interested in the separate collection of out-of-home packaging. I see you smiling, Madam rapporteur,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u473	And you know very well why!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u474	...but that is not enough for my happiness. The real subject, which we have been discussing since yesterday, is: what do we do with bottles out of our homes? From this point of view, it is in everyone's interest that eco-organizations take an interest in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u475	It's not exactly the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u476	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u477	I have answered you in the last part of my argument: we have generalised in committee the management by eco-organisms of the differentiated sorting baskets outside the home. So we agree. The amendments are satisfied; request for withdrawal or, in the absence of such withdrawal, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u478	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 2127 and 2149.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u479	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 41 Number of votes cast 40 Absolute majority 21 For adoption 11 Against 29
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u480	Amendment No 2451 by Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u481	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 784.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u482	I have already presented it in committee, where it had been caricatured as a support for the system of deposit as adopted in Article 8a, whereas it makes it possible, on the contrary, to rely on the existing one, in particular voluntary points of contribution or collection by neighbourhood or building: systems which the Secretary of State knows very well. Far from being based on the recording of the bottle, the value of which is returned to the citizen when he returns it – I believe the Government is planning to set the order at 15 cents – this system allows elected officials responsible for waste management to provide, for a given volume, rewards that are not necessarily pecuniary: they can be translated into performance vouchers as well as donations to associations. The aim is to strengthen and develop this mechanism. His interest is to rely, as I said, on infrastructure already in place. I would point out that the deposit system, as adopted, involves the creation of 110000 collection points and up to 1 billion investments, according to some, in ad hoc machines. On the contrary, the device that I propose does not require almost any investment: it is only intended, through a gratuity which, I repeat, is not necessarily pecuniary, to recognize a gesture practiced daily by the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u483	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u484	I am opposed to the gratification of the sorting gesture: unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u485	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-19-O1111.u486	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the draft law on combating waste and the circular economy. The meeting is adjourned.
