ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bioethics bill (No. 2187, 2243).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the draft law, concluding with amendment No. 2423, which included an additional article after article 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u3	On Amendment No 2423, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u4	Intersex individuals show variations in sexual development. They are therefore not in line with male or female stereotypes. About 1.7% of people are affected. At present, they are operated on or are treated at an early age to conform their sexual characteristics to what is expected of the male or female. These extremely heavy and invasive operations are carried out at an age when the person cannot consent. They are irreversible, often painful, and can involve life-long treatment, including hormonal treatment. They have consequences: healthy organ blemishes, drug dependence, a deep sense of personal violation and pathologization of a healthy body. These operations are similar to mutilation. For these children, it is much more urgent to wait. We are dealing with healthy variations in life, which most often do not pose any health problems. It is essential that people themselves make any decision on a possible body modification operation, in the absence of vital necessity. In 2016, the DILCRAH – an interdepartmental delegation to the fight against racism, anti-Semitism and anti-LGBT hatred – called for the cessation of these operations. That same year, the United Nations called France to order three times. For its part, the European Parliament has explicitly called for an end to these interventions. As for the Council of State, it considered that these acts seriously affected the physical integrity of the child. He recalled that only the vital emergency or the free and informed consent of the person can justify the violation of a person's physical integrity. In 2018, the Defender of Rights showed the major sequelae, both physical and psychological, resulting in physical pain, altered body and altered or painful sexuality. He recommends waiting to be able to obtain the consent of the person. Finally, the CNCDH – the National Advisory Commission on Human Rights – has also described these operations as inhuman and degrading treatment and sexual mutilation. [[Mr. Loïc Prud-homme applauds]] The purpose of this amendment, drafted with the association GISS Alter Corpus, is to supplement Article 16-3 of the Civil Code with the following provision: "The acts of sexual conformation aimed at modifying the primary and secondary sexual characteristics of a person, except in the event of a vital emergency or of the consent personally expressed by the person, even a minor, shall be prohibited. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u6	Mr Jean-François Eliaou, rapporteur of the special committee on the bioethics bill, has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u7	As you said, Mrs Obono, we are talking about extremely difficult and painful situations, which can lead to emotional and psychological consequences, not only in the child, but also in the environment. I will explain why I am asking for the amendment to be withdrawn, as well as for all similar amendments concerning the prohibition of so-called 'conformation' or'sexual assignment' acts, in favour of Amendment No 2334 which Mr Raphaël Gérard will later support. The answer that we, as legislators, have to give must come, as I said in the special committee, from studies which we need to clarify the framework of extremely complicated pathologies which are the subject of complex consultations. Some patients show similar signs due to very different causes. In the face of clinical patterns that can be varied and complex, different therapeutic attitudes can also be very variable. That is why we must legislate with great caution, after obtaining absolutely indispensable studies. That is also why Amendment No 2334 rightly provides for the submission of a report from the Government to Parliament on this type of pathology. The latter amendment also aims to establish a mechanism to organise the systematic orientation of children who vary in their genital development towards one of the four centres in our national territory, in Paris, Lyon, Lille and Montpellier. The multidisciplinary teams of these centres, specially trained for this, will have to provide children and their families with appropriate information and psychosocial support – I insist on the word "accompaniment". For the time being, and in the absence of an exhaustive study, Amendment No 2334 is the most reasonable mechanism that I believe can be adopted as far as our knowledge of the subject is concerned. It is also the one that corresponds to the recommendations of the Council of State, in the study it adopted on 28 June 2018 on the revision of the law on bioethics – I refer you to pages 141 and 142 of this document. I therefore propose that, with Amendment No 2334, we make a first step forward which could then be supplemented by further measures in the light of the results of the studies which we will be asking for in the form of a report submitted by the Government to Parliament. I would also point out that we do not lack regulatory or legal tools. For the most serious cases of unwarranted harm to the child's body, which some amendments describe as "mutilation", our law already contains rules of prohibition fully applicable to cases where such harm has been motivated only by a purpose of subpoena. This point seems important to me: practitioners who perform an operation solely motivated by the urgency of assigning sex to a child would be condemned. Moreover, according to a rule of medical ethics in force, codified in article R. 4127-41 of the Code of Public Health, "no mutilating intervention may be carried out without serious medical grounds and, unless urgent or impossible, without the information of the person concerned and without his consent". The cases of mutilation referred to in certain amendments are therefore already covered by this prohibition. Finally, I would point out that in recent hours we have received a shower of sub-amendments and that some of you have also tabled amendments, two or more, all very different in terms of their content. This shows that, on this issue, the hand of the legislator is still trembling and hesitant. After these explanations, Mr President, I would therefore like to point out that I am against this amendment and those who are following it on the same subject, and on which I will not systematically justify this opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u8	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor to give the Government's opinion on Amendment No. 2423.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u9	The Government's opinion was also unfavourable. I thank the rapporteur for his detailed explanations. Mrs Obono, we can only share your intention to ensure the best possible protection of the health of these children who have variations in genital development. It seems to us, however, that it is not by adding a prohibition in the law that we will guarantee them better care. Indeed, as the rapporteur has pointed out, the current legislative framework already prohibits early surgery and irreversible treatment of a child when there is no medical need. Let us add that your amendment poses a significant risk by reducing the medical necessity to the only vital risk. This could prevent the conduct of medical procedures that are absolutely necessary before the age of consent, for example to avoid a loss of functional opportunity. It is therefore very important to leave it to doctors to define what is or is not a medical necessity. For all these reasons, I am against your amendment. However, I am well aware of the need to provide better guidance and care for these children. That is why I will be in favour of another amendment which should make the care path of these children with sexual ambiguity more robust. It provides for the systematic referral of the children concerned and their families to a specialized reference centre on the subject. It seems to me that this is the way of wisdom. This will improve the care of these people, and it is a much more effective solution than the prohibition – in the absence of a vital reason for emergency – of the act in question. I am against this amendment as well as those on this subject, and will therefore not systematically take up the floor on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u10	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u11	For our part, we can already be satisfied that amendments on this subject are being discussed and that the Government is in favour of one of them. Indeed, when we began to raise this issue, we were opposed to the fact that it did not have to be dealt with in the context of the bill. It was added that there was not much to do, especially since all this was already framed. Obviously, this is not the case: the Government's position on an amendment by the majority is, in a way, a concession in favour of our arguments. Madam Minister, if prohibitions do exist, it seems to us that they still leave too much to too invasive practices, which call into question the free choice of people and their consent to their own bodies – it is not a question of technicality, but of ethics. I would add that illegal practices also exist: obviously, the law, in its present state, is not protective enough. I would like to mention concrete cases in this regard. According to SNDS figures, the national health data system, in 2017, there were at least seven vaginoplasties with reduced clitoris practiced on children under one year of age. Associations report more cases, and would find even more if they did extensive research. I hope that the reports we will be requesting will provide full figures on this. The operations I have just mentioned are carried out in reference centres, the very ones where you want to systematically send the children and their families. The solution therefore does not lie in the orientation towards centres that carry out mutilating operations – it is not we who use this word, Mr rapporteur, but the associations, the people concerned, who have been testifying for several years, and the human rights organisations. An opinion of the Directorate-General for Health, addressed to the Council of State in the context of a dispute, states that sexual conformation operations do not respond to a direct medical risk, that some are prohibited, and that only the person concerned is able to assess whether he wishes to benefit from it, and not the medical profession, as effective as knowledge and techniques are. There is therefore a real contradiction between what you are telling us, Madam Minister, and the figures given by your department, which attest that invasive operations involving the free choice of persons are taking place on children under the age of one year. And everyone here has certainly been aware of the warnings about the systematic referral to the reference centres. We are not debating this subject for the first time, since it has already been the subject of several amendments in the discussion, but we would like to see concrete progress made in responding to the multiple and documented alerts on acts of sexual conformation. We welcome the consideration of reports to support this issue. However, given the elements at our disposal, it is possible to take a decision now and thus send a clear signal, so that operations which affect the free choice of persons and their right to dispose of their bodies, which also applies to children, can be stopped altogether. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is, I believe, what is expected of us as we discuss a bioethics bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u12	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2423.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u13	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 68 Number of votes cast 60 Absolute majority 31 For adoption 11 Against 49
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u14	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No. 2127.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u15	Before returning to the debate which has just been opened by our colleague Mrs Obono, I propose this amendment, which draws the conclusions of the report of the Council of State on the rules for registering sex for intersex children whose sex is difficult to determine. To date, a circular dated 28 October 2011 authorizes, on an exceptional and provisional basis, not to indicate any sex, with the consent of the public prosecutor, for a period of one to two years after the doctor has given his opinion. While I welcome this possibility of avoiding errors in the assignment of sex to the dramatic consequences for children and their families, placing them in difficult situations and forcing them, for example, to seek a procedure for judicial correction of the mention of sex in the event of medical error, the Council of State stressed that it deserved to be included at the legislative level, since the provisions of the circular could be regarded as unlawful under article 57 of the Civil Code. The transposition of this possibility into the law would make it possible no longer to condition this postponement – which is the most important – to surgical procedures on children with variations in sexual development. In fact, the 2011 circular now maintains a mix of genders by linking the possibility of deferring sex to marital status with medical procedures that may not meet a medical need, or that may be delayed in time, subject to the choice made by the parents or expressed by the child when he or she is in a position to do so. From my point of view, the possibility of postponement should not lead to tension with the medical profession, under the penalty of creating psychological pressure on the parents, but also on the child. In addition, the shorter the reporting period for civil registration, the greater the pressure on parents, particularly on the part of medical teams. It is therefore contrary to the precautionary principle, which would require a detailed, balanced and concrete assessment of the best interests of the child. This proposal has nothing to do with the creation of a neutral sex, as was proposed earlier in the debate. Whether surgery is performed early or not, doctors and psychologists always advise parents to project the child into a given sex, regardless of the gender to which it will later identify. The rectification procedures are now very limited but, when they take place, they have an impact that will last the entire life of the child: at every request for birth certificate, he will indeed be confronted with this error of assignment at birth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u16	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u17	Disfavorable, for the reasons set out earlier on Mrs Obono's amendment. However, I will comment on the three-month deadline. I understand very well the concern of the authors of this amendment: it is a matter of avoiding the need for medical teams to assign a sex to the child as a matter of urgency, pressed by the civil declaration. Very often, however, the three-month delay does not correspond to the medical reality. In some cases, the assignment of sex can only be made beyond this time limit, so that it seems a little arbitrary and quite distant from the medical reality of the situations in question. Practitioners may be held hostage by the need to declare the sex of the child to civil status, but it is not because the three-month period will be extended that the desire to assign a sex will not quickly lead to the realization of therapeutic acts. So the approach you are proposing is probably not the right one, Mr Gérard; I would also suggest that you withdraw your amendment in favour of point 2334, which you will defend earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u18	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u19	This amendment poses a challenge to me, honourable Member, because it is not strictly a sensu part of the bioethics bill. It points to the suffering of children, which we all recognize; But if we have to legislate on medical care, our reflection on the conditions for registration is not sufficiently advanced. As the rapporteur has said, any delay seems to me to be incompatible with the reality of the medical needs of these children: the timescale in this matter is well over three months, and it may even be several years. Consideration is probably needed on this issue, but not in the context of this bill. I therefore propose that we accept the amendment that you will submit at a later stage. As for this one, I ask you to withdraw it. Otherwise, the opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u20	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u21	I thank you for these explanations: those of the Minister convince me more than those of the rapporteur. It is true that the amendment raises a matter of civil status rather than bioethics. If we have proposed a three-month deadline, it seems to be in line with the 2011 circular and what is observed in practice. Many doctors testify that, after a few days and different tests, it is possible to decide in most cases. The aim of the amendment was to follow the recommendations of the Council of State and to include them in the law. The bioethics bill is probably not the ideal support, I give it to you. I therefore withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u22	I have before me eight amendments, Nos 1813, 2134, 2427, 2498, 1046, 1792, 2164 corrected and 2168, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 2134, 2427 and 2498 are identical. On these identical amendments, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Hervé Saulignac to support Amendment No. 1813.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u23	I am reluctant to present this amendment, given what has just been said on Amendment No 2134...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u24	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u25	Too bad, because I was ready to withdraw No. 1813 for the benefit of No. 2134... I will therefore introduce my amendment, in which we recognise the need for medical procedures, especially when life is at stake. However, we note, like our colleagues, that certain surgical acts continue to be carried out with the aim of defining the sexual characteristics and conforming the appearance to the declared sex, when they are traumatic and irreversible. It is time to put an end to these practices, and there is an urgent need to act. We are told studies and reports, I hear well, but I am always puzzled when we are invited to patience because they will come to enlighten us: the subject is not new, the literature is provided and, if the legislator had to act, he would have it for a long time. This argument therefore does not convince me. In fact, because the subject is about civil status, it gives rise to immense caution. However, it will have to be decided to suspend the mention of sex to civil status until a child is able to freely say what his or her choice is. Sooner or later, we will have to resolve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u26	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u27	I hear those who point to the difficulty that there may be in flourishing at an early age without knowing precisely, in civil status, what its sex is; But a being who comes into the world feels like a little girl or a little boy, and I don't have a lot of anxiety about him. The most important thing is not to decide for him and to give him the time he needs to make his own choice, so that no mistakes are made and surgeons do not decide on his behalf. That is what this amendment is about, and I can guess what happens to it. I will therefore pay close attention to the one which will be reserved for Amendment No 2334.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u28	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No. 2134.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u29	It is the result of a joint reflection within the National Assembly's study groups on children's rights and youth protection, and on discrimination and LGBTQI-phobias around the world, which explains the identical amendments tabled by the various groups that participated in these study groups. We tabled these amendments before Amendment No 2334, the wording of which is probably a little finer. However, they make it possible to ask the question of the system in its current operation. It provides that children are referred to reference centres and that multidisciplinary commissions meet and exchange on the most complicated cases. In reality, we find that wild operations are still carried out on children who are not addressed to the reference centres. Similarly, the consent of the child is not sought, even where possible. On the other hand, early operations do not always obey the principle of vital urgency: I am thinking in particular of cases of congenital hyperplasia of the adrenals, in which surgical treatments such as reduction of clitoris or vaginoplasties – mentioned earlier by our colleague Mrs Obono – can be performed, whereas only the loss of salt requires therapeutic treatment. The aim of this amendment is therefore to draw attention to current dysfunctions and to denounce decisions taken in place of children: they will have very serious consequences on their physical and psychological development and on their adult lives. The precocity of interventions is problematic, as is the small number of cases of the child's consent. We have already had this debate in committee, but it is useful to open it again in committee, because these concerns are shared on all sides, which is very good news.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u30	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to support Amendment No. 2427.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u31	Our colleague Gérard has made some comments which we agree with. Our amendment seeks to insert, after the seventh paragraph of Article L. 1111-4 of the Code of Public Health, a paragraph reading as follows: "Without immediate vital necessity, no medical act of irreversible sexual conformation aimed at changing sexual characteristics may be carried out on a minor until the person concerned is able to express her consent by herself after having received information adapted to his age. » A result of a joint work carried out by members of the group of studies on discrimination and LGBTQI-phobias in the world, as well as by the group of studies on the rights of the child and the protection of young people, this amendment also aims to ensure that any medical act of irreversible sexual conformation, except in cases of vital emergency, is postponed to be subject to the consent of the person himself – that is the least of the things –, personally expressed after the person has received appropriate information. The Council of State also recalls this in its report on the revision of the bioethics law submitted to the Prime Minister in 2018: some health professionals carry out medical acts aimed at conforming the primary or secondary sexual characteristics of persons with variations in sexual development, and this outside the legal framework of article 16-3 of the Civil Code. It is in the name of a necessary precautionary principle that we must refrain from intervening on the body of the person concerned without vital emergency, I insist, and without his free and informed consent. The French State was called to order in this regard by three committees of the United Nations: the Committee on the Rights of the Child in January 2016, the Committee against Torture in May 2016, the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women in July 2016. I understand the context in which parents can find themselves at the time of birth and the psychological pressure to which they are likely to be subjected, but we cannot, as legislator, accept the consequences when they are of this order. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This is the meaning of the proposed amendment to article L. 1111-4 of the Public Health Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u32	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor to support Amendment No. 2498.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u33	As the colleagues who spoke before me have explained perfectly, this amendment is the result of an exchange of views and a joint trans-party work within the framework of the study group on discrimination and LGBTQI-phobias and the study group on children's rights and the protection of young people. There is now a real social injunction for a child to have a defined sex as soon as possible: it is necessary to conform to the point of view of society. Fortunately, however, emerging voices are gradually redefining the concept of gender and the principle of its determination. It seems to us that it is the duty of the legislator to deal with the matter. The most important thing is to move forward, even if only gradually. The amendment therefore aims to postpone any medical act of sexual conformation, except in cases of immediate vital emergency, so that the minor concerned can express his or her informed consent – it may take a little time, but it is necessary – having received adequate information on the consequences of these operations. The stake here lies in the right to have a choice. Certain medical acts carried out in France on infants are irreversible. If we do not doubt the intention to act in the interests of the child, and probably also in the interests of the parents, why do we do so immediately when it is possible to leave to the child, a being in full construction, the right to understand who he is and who he wants to become? Already in 2017, the Defender of Rights mentioned the need to change the care of intersex persons with respect for human rights, namely the integrity of the body and the free disposition of oneself. The right to decide for one's own body is a fundamental right which is unfortunately not respected in early, non-emergency interventions on which the consent of the child is not sought. According to article 12 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, which France ratified 30 years ago next year, "States parties shall guarantee to a child who is capable of discernment the right to express his or her views freely on any matter affecting him or her, with due regard to the child's age and maturity". [[Applause on several benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups. – Mrs Danielle Obono also applauds]] It is true that the context of birth is difficult for parents, subject, I repeat, to an injunction from society. However, we propose that this type of irreversible intervention be subject to the minor's personal consent. Deciding to perform such an operation engages the future life of the child, the life of the adult that he or she will become. Is it therefore not legitimate for him to decide for himself, while obviously being accompanied and informed in his decision?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u34	I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 1046.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u35	Its objective is to put an end to actual genital mutilation, both physically and psychologically, of children born without a truly determined sex.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u36	I call Mr Matthieu Orphelin to support Amendment No. 1792.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u37	It goes in the same direction as those who have just been defended; So I will not prolong the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u38	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2164 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u39	What we have heard repeatedly during the numerous hearings of the persons concerned which we have conducted has shown us that the legislation currently in force is insufficiently precise and protective. This is also the opinion of the Council of State. The situation should therefore be improved. Thank you, Minister, for announcing that the children concerned can be systematically referred to specialized centres: this is a positive point. But this is not enough because it does not guarantee the implementation of protective practices for these children. I believe that two additional measures are necessary. The first is to wait until the child can express an approval; This seems to me to be the right of the patient, who, even as a child, must be able to give his or her opinion. The second, which will be the subject of a sub-amendment, is the establishment by a decree in the Council of State of the list of professionals competent to participate in the consultation meetings on this subject – health professionals, but also other people, because this matter cannot be put into the hands of the few doctors specialized in the field. It is important that persons with variations in sexual development should not be subject, of course, to a surgical act which directs their sexuality through an intervention on their genitals until they are able to consent to it, especially since about one third of those who have undergone similar intervention before being able to express their point of view consider at the time of puberty that they have not been oriented towards the sex that corresponds to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u40	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 2168.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u41	We have all been affected, during the hearings of the Special Committee, by the situation of children with variations in genital development, and we all agree that this text provides us with an opportunity to improve their care. Our goal must be to put an end to the treatment and operation of the genitals performed on newborns or on young children outside of any medical necessity. You wish, Madam Minister, to better direct these children to the reference centres; we want to trust you on this point; That is the meaning of my next amendment, point 1521. However, we believe that it is necessary, beyond accompaniment and guidance, to make the voice of the person concerned heard, in this case the child: what is his or her opinion, what is his or her choice, an expression of his or her freedom? That is why we propose that the minor be involved in the medical decisions that concern him or her if he or she is able to express his or her will and participate in the decision, after having received information adapted to his or her age. We understand that these operations are carried out to improve the well-being of the child, but we cannot remain deaf to the demands of those who have become adults. Their consent must therefore be obtained to the extent possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u42	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u43	Without going back to some of the arguments put forward by their advocates, I will focus on one point that you have been many to address: the fact of taking age into account in obtaining consent – and, consequently, the possibility that for some time the children concerned will be considered to be of indeterminate sex, which is not necessarily a good thing for them. There are cases where, without urgency, the informed consent of the child who has received information appropriate to his or her age cannot be expected. I will give one example, already mentioned in a special committee. In some pathological variations of sexual differentiation, there is an intra-abdominal testicle and an also intra-abdominal ovary; These are cases where it is difficult, objectively and clinically, to say from the outset whether the child is a boy or a girl, even if there are imaging means available to detect gonads of different sex. The risk of cancerization is therefore very high, not immediately but a few years after birth. It is important to consider this type of clinical or pathological situation. In this case, it is very complex to ask a five-year-old child whether he or she agrees with the removal of either the testicle or the ovary; It would therefore be difficult to obtain the informed consent you propose to include the collection in the law. Of course, the question can be asked of parents, guardians, the judge, but it will always be a third person who will decide for the child. These very special cases are a problem. I heard your argument, Mrs. Pinel; It is fully admissible. We will try to ensure by law that professionals can obtain the consent of the child because he or she has been accompanied and informed to the extent that his or her age permits; pedopsychiatrists or pedopsychologists can contribute to this. However, and this is essential, it is not necessary to formally enshrine in the law that one will wait to intervene if the child has been able to give his or her consent. I repeat, I am not referring here to medical emergencies, but to cases where, unfortunately, intervention is required during childhood. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u44	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u45	I believe that the purpose of these amendments affects all of us. We are obviously very sensitive to the need to collect the consent of these children when possible, and as soon as possible. But I fully agree with what the rapporteur has just said. Indeed, there are clearly intermediate situations in which the decision of the person concerned cannot be decently expected, but also a whole panel of ambiguity which goes from the smallest to the most severe. Reducing interventions to life-threatening cases alone would leave 99% of situations unsolved. On the other hand, having to wait can mean exposing the child to situations where, if his life is not at stake, the functional prognosis of certain organs can be so, with a risk of cancerization – this is the case, in particular, of testicles when they have not gone down to the scholarships. These amendments reflect a twofold binary logic, distinguishing on the one hand the situation where the life prognosis is committed and the situation where it is not, and on the other hand the intermediate case where the child has an equivalent ambiguity on both sides and the case where ambiguity is not equivalent. The reality is much more complex. That is why I would like all the children concerned to be cared for in reference centres, with a view to ensuring the traceability of decisions, and also of course that the medical and multidisciplinary team takes into account the will of the child whenever possible, that is, when it can postpone the intervention until then. It seems to me, however, that any legislation that prohibits intervention until its consent has been obtained would endanger a number of them, even in the absence of immediate vital danger, and would not resolve situations that are sometimes quite simple to resolve,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u46	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u47	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ... when it is not a really intermediate ambiguity between boy and girl, but only small anomalies. I am therefore against all of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u48	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u49	The rapporteur, Madam Minister, I say to you with seriousness: you deny the evidence. You deny it by hiding behind technical arguments. The obvious is more than 20,000 operations in 2017, without consent or vital emergency. Not only do you deny this evidence, but you also say incoherent and false things. You have mentioned the risks of cancerization, but be clear, then, about what you mean by "vital emergency"! Finally, not only do you deny the obvious, but you also deny the words of the people concerned. I think this is even more serious, as several of my colleagues have reminded me before. We are talking very well about mutilation: it is a question of principles that is a haystack of technical arguments. Respect for the integrity of people's bodies and obtaining their consent are indeed absolute principles. It's not negotiable, we can't deal with it. And you cannot, with all the bad technical arguments that you develop, override this principle. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] However, I would like to point out that this issue, which is the subject of wide-ranging discussions throughout this House, represents more than two years of work. You cannot sweep it with a back of your hand: it would not be respectful of the parliamentary work, nor of the words of the people concerned, who have been heard at length by many Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u50	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u51	This is a complicated subject because it is for the few people who are experiencing this situation. I remember hearings, particularly in the context of the fact-finding mission on the revision of the bioethics law that my colleague Jean-louis Touraine and I conducted – I take this opportunity to wish him a happy birthday, since we still have a little time before midnight –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u52	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u53	...where we gathered truly poignant testimonies. I was rather open to Amendment No 2127 by our colleague Raphaël Gérard, but unfortunately he withdrew it. It planned to take into account cases of total ambiguity where the doctor cannot immediately decide on the probable sex, and to allow time before declaring sex to civil status, not in a gender neutral logic but in order to avoid premature enrolment. It was a proposal that could be heard, given exceptional cases. As far as this series of amendments is concerned, it can also be heard at first, but the arguments then exchanged show that the debate is not that simple. I am thinking in particular of the argument of our colleague Maud Petit when she introduced the notion of gender, saying that we were forced to conform to the masculine gender or the feminine gender – as if it were a curse. I believe that the problem can be taken either from an activist point of view, from a gender perspective, by considering that intersex people are in the direction of fighting that denies gender difference, or from a body reality, on which I am relying with several of my colleagues. I absolutely do not want to speak for my group, of course these are personal positions, but I subscribe to this conception: there is a body reality that makes one have a man's body or a woman's body, and then a few cases that present an ambiguity. From that point on, we must not have militant answers but practical answers to what these people are experiencing. That's why for years, decades, even, medicine thought it was right to do these sexual reassignment operations. It was then thought that it was necessary to define the child's sex at an early stage. It is not a question of condemning those who practiced them, their intentions were good, but there is very clearly a development in society on which we must agree, namely that children, because of their present maturity, must now be able to choose, not their "gender", but their sex. That's my design. It is very complicated to set a minimum age or a limit age, since a carcan would then be imposed on the basis of specific cases. In any case, the following amendment by Mr Gérard, No 2334, seems interesting to me – unlike some of the sub-amendments to which he is subject – because it opens a framework at the end of a real reflection and proposes a course. [[Applause on various benches]] With regard to this first set of amendments, in view of the temptations to interpret cases of intersexuality according to the concept of gender in which I am fighting the introduction into our law, I am personally unfavorable. But I will be very open to discussion on Amendment No 2334.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u55	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u56	I am shocked by what our colleague has just said, because he recognises the reality of these situations without drawing the necessary conclusions. First of all, I would point out that these are not a few cases, but 1.7% of births and therefore thousands of operations. And on the pretext that this would be an militant argument, you, Mr. Breton, refuse to go to the end of a logic that you seem to have grasped. This "ambiguity", as you call it, this indefinition, these variations, exist biologically. And I really find it a pity that you blame some of us for using certain terms to explain their vote when each one justifies it on the basis of his own vision. Whatever you think of the theory of gender, that's not what this is about. What we are talking about is the reality of people who are mutilated, and that is not a militant term: it is a term used in many reports on the issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u57	You don't understand! That's not what he meant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u58	I come to what the rapporteur and the minister have said, namely the risk of cancer, even in the absence of an immediate vital emergency. In this case, there is always medical follow-up: it is not a question of leaving these people alone with the risk of diseases to which they are exposed. I would also remind you, the rapporteur, Madam Minister, that the consequences of these operations make it necessary to follow very heavy, physically, physiologically and psychologically. Postoperative complications of genital surgery are common: unsatisfactory cosmetic result; urethral failure; fistula; dehiscence; mictional difficulties; stenosis; ureterocele; sexual difficulties such as persistent curvature of the penis or erectile dysfunction in boys, and vaginal stenosis in girls. It is not pathologies that call into question the vital diagnosis, but they weigh heavily in the lives of those concerned. And you cannot ignore the possibility of medical follow-up since, even when the person is not a victim of the consequences that I have just listed, there is one, accompanied by medication. When we propose to restrict unconsented operations to vital emergencies, we do so by being aware that children and their parents will not be left without accompaniment, without very careful follow-up. Your arguments on this point therefore do not hold. The minister accuses us of being binary. But, on the contrary, we say that given the diversity of the types of variations or ambiguity – call them as you like – we must allow the determination to appear, including, my colleague Breton, by choosing his own assignment; The person must be able to check the box where he or she recognizes himself or herself. It is not a question of erasing the past, and it should correspond to your point of view, since it is a question of allowing the person to assert a well-defined identity – even if this notion may seem too limited – but by allowing him the freedom to do so, even if he does not choose – but it is another debate. It is really very difficult to hear pseudo-technical arguments when, in truth, we are talking about cases that are being followed and that still deserve the greatest attention. I hear, however, once again denying their word, when, I repeat, we are not just talking about a few cases. We will take the time to get back to it, because this is not the first time that we have addressed this issue, and we finally have a recognition of its legitimacy, at least in terms of bioethics. Today we are given the opportunity to take a real step, a step that would not only be symbolic because it would have a direct impact on the lives of the people concerned. Our amendments, which inspired those of members of other groups, have been "lined", thought to ensure that doctors and medical teams can decide, in the event of a vital emergency, to perform the necessary operations. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] So we have here a legislative tool that holds the road, and it would really be a shame for the legislator, and disastrous for many people, that our assembly would refuse to take this step.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u59	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u60	First of all, for having spent a lot of time meeting medical teams, associations, lawyers, in short, a number of interlocutors over the last few months, I will be careful not to move forward with figures, because we are now at a great risk of being able to provide them at any level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u61	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u62	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u63	The reasons are many, starting with the particularity of the variations and their great diversity, from which a real difficulty arises in knowing when the person corresponds to such variation or to another. Mrs Obono has put forward figures, but I cannot say whether they are fair, overvalued or, on the contrary, undervalued.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u64	The number is 160!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u65	I will then come back – to show once again how complex and worthy of real attention this subject is – to the words of the rapporteur, who refers to the risks of cancer of gonads. Today, most of the medical teams I have met, including highly interventionist teams, have ruled out systematic withdrawal of gonads, regardless of the risk of cancer. The teams retain gonads whenever they can, by ensuring specific monitoring of the onset of cancer, the objective of preserving, as soon as possible, the gametes that the gonads may produce in part functional. The passage through the reference centres therefore seems to me to be the right answer. It is for this reason that, although I have made a significant contribution to the drafting of Amendment No 2134, I have a preference for the wording adopted in Amendment No 2334...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u66	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u67	... because it precisely finds a balance between different decisions which, whatever they may be, are likely to have real consequences for the future of these children. In the absence of proper control of this subject – as evidenced by the difficulty we have in talking about it – we risk making potentially fatal decisions rather than advancing the cause. Even though some associations are very militant, the important thing is to find a balance, to have this debate – I can only rejoice that we have been talking about intersex children in our country for the last hour: it seems to me to be a great first – and to use the various existing reports, including the Senate report or the opinion of the Council of State, as a basis. [[Smile]] Amendment No 2334 – which I do not hope to see considered shortly – provides, in my view, the most balanced answer to this question, and reflects a willingness to move the debate forward. I hope that we will all be there to vote on it together, and pending the withdrawal of Amendment No 2134.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u68	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u69	In the light of the arguments of the rapporteur and the minister, and for once in agreement with my colleague Xavier Breton,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u71	[[Applause on several benches of the LR, UDI-Agir, LaREM and MODEM groups]] I withdraw Amendment No 1046 in favour of Amendment No 2334 by Mr Gérard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u72	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u73	I maintain my amendment. I will be brief, but I would like to point out that while some doctors believe it is indeed imperative to intervene as quickly as possible and assign a sex to the child by operating the newborns, others believe that these interventions should not be carried out as soon as possible and propose less invasive alternatives. Their arguments focus on the risks to the future health of the child. These practices are indeed likely to have an impact on the entire life of these people, from the age of childhood to adulthood: a probable infertility, a loss of sexual sensitivity, the risk of a sexual misassignment, people who do not recognize themselves in their bodies and feel, for example, deeply woman when they are perceived by all as a man. These cases exist, not to mention possible psychological sequelae. To push the reasoning to the extreme, some people will not love each other as they are, sometimes, to the point of having an unfortunate gesture, of eliminating themselves. I would like to stress this point: there is no absolute need to carry out these acts as soon as possible. Perhaps the term "gender" was not the right one, Mr. Breton: it is a matter of sex.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u74	There, we agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u75	[[Michel-Kleisbauer applauds]] So, in this world where you go so fast – sometimes too fast – take a little time, and let's accept things and people as they are.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u76	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u77	The figures we have put forward would, it was said, be a bit fanciful. I would remind you, however, that the proportion of births of 1.7% corresponds to the figure put forward by the United Nations. In France, the total number of intersex operations carried out in 2017 is 15,000 for children under 12 years of age and 6,000 for children under 2 years of age, an increase of about 10% since 2006: these data are those of the national health data system. The "thousands of operations" that I have spoken of are therefore well attested. These figures are not fanciful. Even if Amendment No. 2334 is better than nothing – at least we will have obtained that from the Government, by putting the work back on the job – I would point out that the associations of the persons concerned, which call the procedures they have been subjected to and whose arguments you have had to read carefully, have indicated that this amendment is insufficient. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Systematic referral to reference centres does not answer the question, as such operations are already being carried out in these centres. Thus, we miss the subject once again: we refuse to accept and look at the truth in the face and, in a way, we continue to maintain a very damaging silence on these realities. We will therefore maintain our amendments because, even if small improvements are subsequently adopted, they will not be up to the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u78	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u79	[[Mr. Gérard smiles]] I would like to tranquillize Mrs Obono and Mr Gérard, who is targeting me tonight: we are not abandoning the children. An extremely precise medical follow-up is provided, as you said yourself, Mr Gérard: we are not going to remove the gonads because they have not fallen to the right place... Simply put, perhaps I have not been clear enough on one point: when, in the context of these medical follow-ups, practitioners have to intervene from the age of 5 or 6 to treat one of the pathologies that you mentioned, Mrs Obono – in fact, quite exhaustively, which I thank you for – it is simply difficult to obtain the informed consent of the child. If the pathology occurs at the age of 12, it becomes possible to discuss with the child in a specialized environment, with child psychologists specialists of the advertisement. But when she says she's four or five years old, it's extremely complicated to ask for the child's informed consent. The decision is then made by the parents or guardian. When the emergency so requires, an intervention may be required.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u80	So you agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u81	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u82	The issue of the age of consent of the child faces significant difficulties, particularly when referring to the pattern of psycho-affective and psycho-sexual development. At what age can a child consent? Between 0 and 3 years, when he discovers his own body? Between 3 and 5 years, when the Oedipus complex appears? More than five years? This type of amendment, based on the collection of the child's consent, puts us in great difficulty, especially as it is known that at the age of 5, little girls like to play with each other while boys tend to stay behind. What then will be the place of a child growing up in a sense of insecurity because he will not know if he is a girl or a boy?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u83	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u84	Let me speak, Mrs. Obono. I consider it important to recall certain psychopathological, psychological, and psychosexual and psychoaffective development data of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u86	We are introducing a great deal of confusion between the desire to open up to all-va and the reality, educational and psychological, that you are referring to. The child needs security. He must know that there is differentiation, which is played in part – without falling, like Mr Breton, into integral corporateity – by sexual differentiation. As neither a pediatric endocrinologist nor a surgeon, I will not risk developing the theme of gonadic functional deficiencies, but I believe that assignments, when prescribed after a multidisciplinary consultation involving various specialists, are of interest. Instead, the current recommendations are to implement them fairly quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u87	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u88	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u89	This subject is not new. I will not recall, as Charles de Courson did, that I have participated in previous revisions of bioethics laws – in my case in 2011, but this topic had already been addressed in the past. Questions were then put forward. While it is true that the reflection has matured since then, the light has not suddenly come to light today. Moreover, there is no perfect solution on this subject, nor is there a miracle recipe. We're groping. Those who claim to have a solution to deal with everything are wrong, because we are confronted with a body reality that precisely prevents us from responding and obliges us to seek the least bad solution. These questions are further intensified by taking into account the psychoanalytic dimension.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u90	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u91	We could debate whether the psychoanalysis you invoke is militant or objective... To answer your argument, Mr. Hammouche, confusion and questioning for these children already exist. They are made even more painful and problematic, including psycho-sociologically, by forced reassignments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u92	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u93	Yes, I do, my dear colleague. You have certainly read the testimonies in this sense: this is the whole problem of the summonses without consent, decided without the person concerned having made this journey. We will not start a discussion here on the question of which psychoanalytic school you refer to,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u94	I'm referring to the playground!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u95	...but there are also psychoanalytic and psychological recommendations on the need to hear the child's own path and to give him or her his or her freedom of choice. Finally, we do not propose to "open to all-va". We want – to return to the questions raised by Xavier Breton – to give children time to find answers. It is not a question of letting everyone do what they want, but rather of guiding the procedures very precisely by entrusting them to teams of multidisciplinary practitioners, so that these questions can find answers that allow the development of people. I therefore refer you to the work already mentioned – even if we will not have time to discuss it again here. Your attitude, which prompted my response, is typical of what the people concerned are testifying to, and how they have been called into question for their own good. While we continue to deny the biological and body reality, but also psychological and psychoanalytic, of the consequences of these operations, I hope that this debate will at least facilitate the understanding of their terrible, mutilating and extremely alienating character for the people concerned. I think it's our responsibility...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u96	We got it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u97	... if we talk about bioethics – and you will allow, ladies and gentlemen, that we finish on this subject,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u98	We're far from done!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u99	[[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] ...because it is important – out of respect for the people concerned, to ensure that this word is at least heard, for once, in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u100	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 2427 and 2498.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u101	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 111 Number of votes cast 108 Absolute majority 55 For adoption 19 Against 89
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u102	Amendment No 1521 by Mrs Sylvia Pinel is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u103	I have before me three amendments, Nos 2334, 2154 and 2165, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 334 is the subject of Subamendments Nos 2621, 2633, 2624, 2636, 2626, 2638, 2622, 2625, 2637, 2634 and 2635. Subamendments Nos. 2624 and 2636 are identical, as are Subamendments Nos. 2626 and 2638 and Subamendments Nos. 2625 and 2637. On Amendment No 2334, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u104	This amendment, tabled by the whole of the Republic on the move, seems to me to be a good balance. I would like to draw the Assembly's attention to the fact that, in the special committee, the Minister was willing to create in the law this subject, which was originally not included in the text. This decision is already a real step forward in addressing this issue and demonstrates a willingness to advance the situation of the children and families concerned. This amendment does not fundamentally upset the law: it merely recalls the rule of law and good practices – which, I know, is a hijacking of certain associations. It has been seen that, even today, children are operated outside the referral centres and are not systematically seen by the referral doctors of these centres. It has also been seen that the planned multi-disciplinary consultation meetings often examine cases of children who have already been operated on before the cases of these children were submitted to them, and often without the intervention being of a genuine emergency nature. It is therefore necessary to recall the existing legislative framework, as well as good practices, and to invite the entire medical community both to comply with these practices, when they are not respected – but these circumventions of the law fortunately remain quite minority – and, above all, to exchange so that the medical community is collectively able to evolve its doctrine on the care of these children. This amendment, I repeat, does not fundamentally upset the rule of law, but I hope that it will make the medical community aware of the need to question these practices. In its II, the amendment aims at the submission of a report. We have indeed realized – and that is why I was wondering earlier about the figures put forward by Mrs Obono – that we have very few data, which are often fragmented and not consolidated. I therefore call for a next step in this process. For the time being, we are asking the question and I hope that in the future we will be able to take this issue collectively and change the law to reflect the elements of this report and the exchanges that I hope will also develop within the medical community. The adoption of this amendment unanimously would therefore be a nice sign sent to all his children.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u105	This amendment is the subject of many sub-amendments. The rapporteur, Mr Jean-François Eliaou, has the floor to support sub-amendment No 2621.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u106	I shall issue an opinion in favour of Amendment No 2334, subject to the adoption of a number of sub-amendments, the first of which is to add the words: 'Unless a medical emergency involving its vital prognosis'. It seems to me important to be able to deliver this point objectively in the next provision that we will accept.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u107	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 2633.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u108	While consent is provided for in the proposed amendment, this consent should be clarified, as this is the heart of the debate. This sub-amendment therefore seeks first of all, after the words "and their foreseeable consequences", to insert the words: "by guaranteeing, without a vital emergency, therapeutic abstention in order to wait for the free and informed consent of the person concerned, personally expressed. " It is then intended to rewrite paragraph 6: "Free and informed consent referred to in the first paragraph shall be obtained under conditions defined by decree in the Council of State". The issue was important and many arguments had been exchanged. We are not opposed to Amendment No 2334, but the proposed wording remains unclear about the informed consent of the person concerned. The wording we are proposing seems more precise: its adoption would allow us to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u109	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 2624.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u110	This sub-amendment recommends adopting a principle of proportionality that would guide the multidisciplinary medical teams of the reference centres in their detailed, balanced and concrete assessment of the situation and the best interests of the child. It is based on the recommendations of the Defender of Rights and the information report of Senators Maryvonne Blondin and Corinne Bouchoux.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u111	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor in support of the identical sub-amendment No. 2636.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u112	It tends to recommend the adoption of a precautionary principle that would guide the multidisciplinary medical teams of the reference centres, as Mr. Touraine explained. This precautionary principle should prevail over the principle of intervention, which has prevailed in France since the introduction of the Johns Hopkins protocol in the 1960s, with early surgical procedures performed while the child's life-threatening prognosis was not engaged.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u113	Subamendment No 2626 by Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock-Mialon is being defended. Mrs Maud Petit has the floor in support of the identical sub-amendment No. 2638.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u114	The information given to parents is not exhaustive, but should allow for the expression of their informed consent. However, the psychological pressure associated with sex reporting to civil status and the pathological discourses of some doctors suggest that surgery would be the only answer. In addition, parents are generally unaware of the fact that this intervention is often followed, as explained earlier, by new operations that can take place repeatedly and for several years after the birth of the child. This sub-amendment therefore aims to ensure that the potential risks associated with early medical or surgical interventions are fully known to parents, who must be able, when their child is not yet able to do so, to choose, together with the multidisciplinary team, the most appropriate therapeutic response.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u115	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 2622.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u116	It tends to seek a decree in the Conseil d'État which could establish a list of professionals competent to participate in multidisciplinary consultation meetings, including health professionals and other professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u117	Subamendment No 2625 by Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock-Mialon is being defended. Mrs Maud Petit has the floor in support of the identical sub-amendment No. 2637.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u118	It is intended to clarify that the doctor not only informs the parents of the existence of these associations, but that he sends them a list of the various specialized associations, since the only mention of their existence may be insufficient. The aim here is to guard against a strong medical position, which considers this voluntary work to be secondary. By giving parents a list of these associations, it is ensured that they are aware of being able to be supported and that their connection with these associations will be facilitated. Finally, this list could be standardized and updated regularly to take account of all existing associations, since they are diverse and their support varies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u119	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u120	This point of order is based on Rule 49 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups]] Mr Touraine, who was not rapporteur on the title of the text, speaking from the rapporteur's microphone, it would be appropriate for the time referees to ensure that his speaking time was well counted on the time allocated to the La République group on the move, not that of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u121	We've got margin!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u122	The answer is positive. Everything is counted and not for a second is lost.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u123	It's for your birthday, Mr. Touraine!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u124	I have before me two sub-amendments, Nos 2634 and 2635, to Amendment No 2334, which can be presented in a consolidated format. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u125	It is useful to explain to those of our colleagues who are very eager to vote that the large number of sub-amendments tabled is due to the fact that we have not had time to work in a special committee and that the amendment proposed by the majority group as a whole is probably the result of a compromise between the Government and the majority. We see no problem as long as the proposed measure goes so little in line with what we want, but we still suffer from sub-amendments being tabled by our group, La France insoumée, which has been carrying this debate for some time and relaying the dissatisfaction of the associations of people concerned, who have pointed out that, in the proposed wording, the amendment may be a step forward, but not sufficiently substantial. That is why so many sub-amendments have been tabled and why we propose, with our sub-amendment No. 2634, to insert in paragraph 5, after the words "the existence of associations", the words "of persons concerned" and, after the words "genital development", the words "able to provide non-pathological information on these variations". The purpose of this clarification is to ensure that the decision can be made with full information given by the persons themselves concerned, who may be better able to provide the child and his or her family with useful experience. This information, which is complementary to that of doctors, who do not need to be pathological, will enable the child to make a fully informed decision, using various points of view expressed, including that of persons also concerned. Subamendment No. 2635 is intended to insert, at the beginning of paragraph 6, before the words "the consent of the minor", the words "other than vital emergency", and to delete, at the end of that paragraph, the words "if he or she is capable of expressing his or her will and participating in the decision. » The amendment tends to provide for the consent of the child only if it is "capable of expressing its will and participating in the decision", which means that parents can give their consent to operations when the person concerned may not be in a position to give his or her consent. The purpose of the sub-amendment is to clarify the procedure for collecting the consent of this person, in accordance with the study of the Council of State on the revision of the Bioethics Act, which states that "where the minor is unable to express his or her will, only a "very serious medical reason" may justify that, without waiting for the child to be of age to participate in the decision, a medical act seriously affecting his or her bodily integrity shall be carried out; If the very serious nature of such a ground is not established, it is necessary to wait until the minor is in a position to participate in the decision, in particular to state the suffering associated with his injury and to modulate the benefit/risk balance of the proposed act itself. » [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I repeat, the amendment which tends to systematically refer families to centres, even if it can make it possible to catch up with situations which are not regulated as they should, is not, in our view and according to the associations, to the extent that the present situation, on which we have been alerted for many years by various organisations, would require. That at least deserves us to adopt these sub-amendments, in order to show our will that these situations do not happen again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u126	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No. 2154 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u127	I would like to make a point about associations: there is a multitude of them, representing a variety of points of view. Overall, there are as many associations in favour of interventions as there are associations in favour of them. I withdraw my amendment No 2154 in favour of Amendment No 2334.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u128	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 2165.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u129	The aim of this amendment is to improve the care provided by reference centres for children with varying genital development. You have repeatedly indicated, Madam Minister, that you have asked your services to work in this direction. You said you wanted to homogenize and strengthen access to the centre of reference for rare diseases of genital development, labeled in 2017. Since this type of structure is still recent, we have little information on this issue. This amendment is therefore a call, Madam Minister: can you give us information and ensure that the debate will allow us to move forward on this crucial issue for all these children?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u130	What is the opinion of the committee on this series of amendments and sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u131	Sub-amendment No 2633 tends to introduce a priori a form of prioritisation between possible solutions, by requiring that, of course, the therapeutic forbearance which is understood to be the first priority should be guaranteed, without a vital emergency. I do not think that the legislator's assessment should replace that of all professionals in the specialised centres. The opinion is therefore unfavourable. With regard to sub-amendment No 2624, I am in favour, because, as Mr Touraine has explained, the proposed therapies respect the principle of proportionality. Same opinion for the same amendment No 2636. On sub-amendment No 2626, I express an unfavourable opinion. The complete information, particularly on the potential risk associated with medical or surgical procedures, seems complicated to me to impose on the multidisciplinary team of the reference centre. It is preferable to leave it all the flexibility it needs to appreciate the content of the information it provides. This point, which will be included in another sub-amendment, seems very important to me. Same opinion for the identical sub-amendment No 2638. Sub-amendment No 2622, also tabled by Mr Touraine, provides that the list of professionals participating in multidisciplinary consultation meetings will be established in the Council of State, as is the case for the composition of multidisciplinary prenatal diagnostic centres. For a reason of parallelism of forms, I am in favour of this sub-amendment. Sub-amendment No 2625, again tabled by Mr Touraine, tends to propose in a somewhat formal way a list of associations specialising in the accompaniment of persons with a variation in genital development. The requirement to draw up this list poses a feasibility problem. That is why I am against this sub-amendment. Same opinion for the identical sub-amendment No 2637. Sub-amendment No 2634, defended by Mrs Obono, seeks to clarify that associations specialising in the accompaniment of persons with a variation in genital development whose existence the doctor must mention would be obliged to provide non-pathological information. I express an unfavorable opinion, because it is very difficult to define what is "non-pathological information" about variations in genital development. This formulation is, in my view, marked by great subjectivity, so that it seems difficult to include it in the law. That is why I am against this sub-amendment. I have already argued on sub-amendment No 2635, also defended by Mrs Obono. If I approve of course the first part of the text, which excludes the case of vital emergency – we have discussed it – for the rest, I do not see how one could reasonably ask for the consent of a minor. The opinion is therefore unfavourable. It is also true for Amendment No 2165.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u132	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u133	As we speak of Mr Raphaël Gérard's amendment, I would like to thank all those Members who have made a great deal of effort to ensure that the bioethics law deals with this subject, even if we did not initially consider it because it is not a new medical technique. But the suffering of the children, of which you have told us, deserved a strong gesture of framing the care. I thank you, Mr Gérard, for your work in drafting this amendment, which I very much accept. I would like to start with a historical reminder. We are all very shocked by the stories we have heard about children who have undergone unnecessary mutilation in too short a time compared to their level of consent. We can agree that there are – or have been – bad medical practices. Over time, the medical community seized the subject and began to structure itself. The first rare diseases reference centre dedicated to genital development, which was established in 2006 and was labeled in 2017, is now a national reference centre, located in Lyon. Three reference centres are associated with this coordinating centre, while more than 20 regional centres provide good practice and are responsible for disseminating it in the hospital environment. This structure, which has increased in recent years, has resulted in all doctors, surgeons and psychologists caring for these children taking into account the necessary multidisciplinary dimension, both with children and with families, and gradually improving their practices. We are typically in a case of medical progress, with a level of requirement in the quality of practices that increases each year. This sector of care for children with sexual ambiguity is growing and is structured: there are nine university or inter-university degrees, several scientific conferences, several therapeutic education programmes open to patients and families in the territory. In addition to the Lyon centre I mentioned earlier, the focal points in Paris, Bicêtre, Lille and Montpellier are responsible for developing and disseminating good practices in diagnosis and treatment, conducting clinical research, possibly maintaining registers, animating networks, designing information guides and infographics for patients and families. They are linked to associations representing the sick. Most of the sub-amendments you are proposing cover the structural scope of the reference centres. These are precisely labeled to improve professional practices in our territory. I wanted to explain what the reference centres are and what their missions are so that you understand why I refuse certain sub-amendments aimed at including in the law missions already included in the labeling of reference centres. Mr Gérard, the purpose of your amendment is to better regulate the medical care of children by considering that they are systematically the responsibility of the multidisciplinary teams specialised, the reference centres. It also provides that the situation of these children must be the subject of a multidisciplinary consultation to propose therapeutic avenues – including therapeutic forbearance. As I committed myself in committee, I am in favour of this amendment. I hope that it will be created at the level of the law, which will strengthen the consideration of these issues by doctors who will be better informed when they are faced with a child with sexual ambiguity. This is the most appropriate way to ensure optimal care, to enable specialized teams to take over this issue and for all children to receive appropriate support. This legislation must be translated into an order that will specify, inter alia, the composition of the multidisciplinary teams. I do not wish it to be fixed by a decree in the Council of State, because it would require, every time a new name appears on the list, the use of a new decree, which is absolutely not operational. I would therefore ask for sub-amendment No 2622 to be withdrawn, because a decree allows us to draw up, in a much more flexible and reactive way, the list of professionals in the multidisciplinary teams responsible for these practices. The opinion of the NCCE – National Ethics Advisory Committee – requested on July 1st, will serve as a guide in the development of this Order. I will ensure that stakeholders are involved. Your amendment, Mr Gérard, also provides for a report on the activity and operation of the reference centres to be submitted to Parliament. I am also in favour of this, because it will enable the quality of the organisation to be assessed quickly, which will be a real step forward in favour of good practice. In sub-amendment No 2621, rapporteur, you would like to include an exception to the holding of the RCP in the event of a vital emergency. I am a little embarrassed because, according to the code of medical ethics, the doctor must provide the necessary care in the event of an emergency, particularly vital. I fear that the inclusion of this mention will weaken the principle of the SPCs that we are introducing. For this reason, I would ask you to withdraw from sub-amendments No 2624 by Mr Touraine and No 2636 by Mrs Petit, for which I have a favourable opinion. I am against sub-amendment No 2633. With regard to the identical sub-amendments Nos 2626 and 2638, I suggest that we withdraw or give an unfavourable opinion. I have an opinion of wisdom with regard to the identical sub-amendments No 2625 by Mrs Vanceunebrock-Mialon and No 2637 by Mrs Petit. I am against sub-amendments Nos 2634 and 2635.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u134	Mrs Laëtitia Romeiro Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u135	I shall begin my speech on this amendment from our group with the words on which I had finished in committee, recalling that bioethics is, of course, the creation of new rights, the prohibition or regulation of new practices, but also the correction of what, in practice, affects our ethical principles. I had made this reminder after alerting about the situation of intersex children. We must be aware that certain medical practices lead to sexual conformation operations for children under 3 years of age – operations which, for some, are decided without medical imperative, without vital emergency. Although they are carried out without any malice, these operations call us ethically, especially since they are known to be irreversible: their consequences only cease with the lives of those who have suffered them. We are shocked to hear these children become adults express the impression of mutilation of their bodies, rejection of their difference, at a price that they alone will bear in their flesh, and evoke pain, life-long treatments, and confinement in a body that is not theirs. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] We do not want to stigmatize the doctors who have offered these operations to families, because it seems to me that we all have our share of responsibility in the development of these practices. In fact, nature creates differences, but it is society that makes them inequities. So it is we, society, who have led doctors to perform these operations in order to protect, in their opinion, children exposed to the rejection of the difference that society organizes. Since we are responsible, we must all act. Like others, I proposed in committee a solution, which was certainly imperfect, but which was a warning cry. I would like to commend the work of all the members of my group who have heard this alert, heard these children, and who have been looking together for a solution for the meeting. Tonight, here we are! I would also like to thank you, Madam Minister, on behalf of our group, for the co-construction work we carried out before the sitting. As a result of this work, I hope we will include in the legislation the systematic orientation of so-called intersex babies to specialized reference centres, in order to allow for appropriate care, better information to parents and continuous psychosocial support. We will also include information on specialized associations in order to enable parents to leave their isolation and to have the fullest possible information. But above all, here, for the first time, and for the specific benefit of intersex children, we will specify that the consent of the minor must be systematically sought as soon as possible, provided that the intervention can wait. I hope that our alerts and legal registration, but above all the content of our debates that are being transcribed tonight, will send a clear message to the profession. The doctor's order itself could not give us a position in the hearing on these practices, since the doctors themselves are still in the middle of questioning. Tonight, in the interests of these children, we answer their questions here, we send a clear message: unless there is a proven medical emergency, no sexual conformation operation without the child's consent and expression of personality and will have been sought. Since writing is not easy on this subject, in order not to take the risk of preventing medically necessary operations, we have also sent a final message in this amendment to check also the effectiveness. We have just proposed a solution, but we say above all to all these children, to these families, that we will no longer keep their disarray, long in the shadows. We therefore have an obligation in the law to draw up, within a year, a report which will enable us to monitor concrete progress on this subject, and if we have to reintervene, we will do so! [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I would like to stress that I hope that this will be one of the tasks that the parliamentary delegation to bioethics will take up – and I thank you – that you have agreed to create. Evaluation, monitoring, is therefore the second commitment of this amendment. That is why my group is asking all our colleagues, whatever their bench, to join The Republic on its way to respond to the suffering of these children.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u136	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u137	With regard to your invitation, Mrs. Romeiro Dias, we will see a little later. Mr Gérard's amendment is interesting because it really takes account of the need for a journey that takes the time of information, with a real sensitivity. As for the opinions that have been given, I would have given the same opinions as the rapporteur. I have no objection to them. However, the in-depth reading of these amendments and the debates on them lead me to three questions. What is meant, first, by the expression "creating in the law", used by Mr Gérard and taken up by the minister? Is it a question of marking a skull that will call others? That raises a lot of questions. Perhaps I have to put myself on the page, but I need an explanation of what the word "scan" means here. Secondly, when we read these amendments correctly, we discover that something is missing: the place of the family. It is only to say that she will be informed. The family is mentioned on two occasions in Amendment No. 2334: "the team of the reference centre responsible for the care of the child shall ensure complete information and appropriate psycho-social support for the child and his or her family", and "when announcing the diagnosis, the doctor shall inform the parents of the child of the existence of associations". This amounts to telling families that they are on the periphery, that they do not have a central place. If we wanted to work together on an amendment on which we can agree, the place given to families, to parents, would have to be more important, otherwise we would go towards a purely individualistic view of the child. That the decision should not belong to families alone, and that the child's maturity must be taken into account, I do not dispute it. Articles of the Civil Code already provide for this to other subjects. But it is necessary to find a more central place for the family in the system. Thirdly, Mrs Romeiro Dias invites us to join La République en marche. Perhaps it is by reflex that I am quite reluctant to the idea of this rallying, but be careful: when you talk about drawing up a report that highlights the situation of these children, you again enter into a militant logic, which we refuse. The limited time that we have prevents me from extending more on this complicated subject, but several points, including the place of the family, would require a little more in-depth work for you to get our agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u138	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u139	We will not join The Republic on the move, simply because what we wanted was to ban mutilation. Whether children were only sent to centres could be seen by some as progress, but there was still a difference between that measure and a genuine ban on doctors from maiming such children. That is why we will not respond to Mrs Romeiro Dias' invitation. You're talking about a report to be presented in a year's time. What will happen this year? Will it be necessary to have an overwhelming report and new and staggering figures so that the subject can be put back on the table? I do not want to support this provision, saying that because of this compromise decision which will send children to centres, some may be mutilated. I am against and do not want to assume this heavy responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u140	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u141	We believe that the subject is important enough to intervene again. Our insistence has at least clearly resulted in this amendment, despite the boredom and exasperation of some. Unfortunately, the account is not there. It is not we who say it: I have quoted the associations of people concerned. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] I know that now, after obtaining this internal compromise, some – who were genuinely interested in these issues – consider these associations to be suddenly less legitimate, and that their words are less valuable. Obtaining compromises that are personally satisfied does not justify a sudden sweeping of the work accomplished, sometimes in a very transparent manner, and also sweeping the words of the persons concerned. I would therefore like to take the time it takes to say once again why these people are opposed to these amendments which systematize the referral of intersex children to the reference centres. While the centralization of children with variations in sexual development in a limited number of centres may allow for greater vigilance over practices and respect for the consent of the person, the amendments presented, like those requesting a report, tend to replace the consideration of consent. Many even provide for the consideration of consent only in cases where the child is able to express his or her will and participate in the decision. This means that parents will be able to give their approval to mutilations up to an advanced age of the child. Furthermore, the use of multidisciplinary teams in these reference centres does not guarantee that children's consent is taken into account. Today, mutilation continues in the reference centres, with the doctors who practice there adopting, for the most part, an extremely stigmatizing and pathological approach to intersex variations. As it stands, these amendments therefore seem, for the associations of the persons concerned, absolutely incompatible with an advance of intersex rights, because they endorse the decision-making by the doctors of the reference centres and by the parents, concerning medical acts of alteration of sexual characteristics without vital emergency. Once again, this argument can be swept aside and we welcome an internal compromise in The Republic on the move. We do not welcome this, and we regret it all the more because, for the past two years, we have participated actively, through the study group on LGBTphobias in the world, but also through written work. We have again demonstrated, through several similar amendments, our will to achieve at least something of little significance in this text. Unfortunately, we find with great bitterness that this compromise found internally, thanks to collective work, pressure and multiple interpellations from all the benches, does not respond significantly to an extremely serious, extremely hurtful and humiliating reality, not just for the people concerned, but for what we collectively are as a society. This is the only point on which I may join my colleague from The Republic on the move: collective responsibility. Today, we are collectively responsible for not giving, beyond a mere signal, a formal rule that prohibits mutilation on intersex persons. That is why we shall abstain with regret on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u142	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u143	[[Paul Molac applauds]] I withdraw Amendment No 2165 in favour of Mr Gérard for two reasons. First of all, to thank the Minister for her clarification and for her reply on the homogenisation of reference centres and her willingness to disseminate good practices, which I believe is absolutely essential for the support of these children. The second reason is that, although many of us hope for further progress for these children, this evening we have the opportunity to take a first step for their information and accompaniment. We therefore want to support and welcome this progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u144	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u145	I would like to address the colleagues of the group of La France, who are unsuspecting: we may regret not going any further, but – we are many to think – a huge step is being taken this evening: we have raised the subject and we are putting it in the law, it is not nothing. Join us to lay this first stone! With regard to the identical sub-amendments Nos. 2625 and 2637, in response to Mr Breton, it is envisaged that the reference centre responsible for the care of the child will provide information and psychosocial support to the family. Indeed, often surprised by the announcement of the variation in the reproductive development of the child at the time of birth, parents need significant support. As the newborn child is unable to express his or her consent, it may be useful for them to receive testimony from other families who have experienced this situation. The doctor must facilitate the contact of parents with associations specializing in the accompaniment of persons with a variation in genital development. I thank the Minister for expressing a wise opinion on these amendments. Furthermore, in the light of the information it has given us, I am withdrawing sub-amendment No 2638.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u146	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u147	I must admit that I was not particularly aware of the variation in genital development, I would even say that I discovered it. I listened carefully to each other's arguments, as I measure the seriousness of this issue. Given the diversity of situations, systematic intervention – I prefer to talk about intervention rather than mutilation because it implies a willingness to hurt the doctor – is just as out of place as systematic non-intervention. In addition, the concept of consent cannot be applied to a very young child. Mr Gérard's amendment is, in my view, the one that gives the best answer. The collegiality of decision-making, the plurality of medical opinions and the psychological expertise that it provides – Brahim Hammouche recalled – allow to enlighten families as best they can, depending on the medical advances and the development of the child. [[Mr. Brahim Hammouche applauds]] I welcome this amendment and welcome the opinion of the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u148	I put to the vote Amendment No 2334, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u149	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 112 Number of votes cast 94 Absolute majority 48 For adoption 91 Against 3
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u150	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u151	My point of order is based on Rule 49(7) and (15) of the Rules of Procedure. Several non-attached Members referred the matter to the Conference of Presidents on 30 September to ask it to exercise the competence conferred on it by Article 49, paragraph 15, of the Rules of Procedure, which states that "if the Conference of Presidents finds that the maximum duration set for the examination of a text is insufficient, it may decide to increase it". The decisions of the Conference of Presidents and its absence of a reply seriously violate the constitutional rights of parliamentarians, which the Constitutional Council consistently recalls in its jurisprudence. The Members concerned have indeed found a serious violation of the principle of equality in the allocation of speaking time, which leads to a very great imbalance in speaking for each Member, which has a major impact on the parliamentary debate. Part of the national representation is thus deprived of active and effective participation in an essential debate for French society. It is almost impossible for a non-registrant parliamentarian to defend, in a coherent and reasoned manner, his or her point of view or an amendment, or to explain his or her vote. [[Marie-France Lorho and Agnès Thill applaud]] For all these reasons, the non-registrant MPs concerned have decided to refer to the Constitutional Council the strong disproportion between parliamentarians in that the imbalance, in that it ignores the constitutional requirement of clarity and sincerity of the parliamentary debate, could seriously undermine, from the point of view of compliance with the Constitution, the debate as well as the voting operations. It thus seriously undermines the normal functioning of the public authorities and, in particular, the parliamentary function.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u152	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No. 2137.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u153	I have already had the opportunity to defend this amendment several times. It is intended to replace the words "for his benefit" with the words "for the benefit of his parenting project" in order to allow the return of the gametes that would have been kept for medical reasons. Of course, I am thinking of trans women who would have self-conserved their sperm before a transition operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u154	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u155	I am not sure that the sentence: "the self-conservation of gametes or germ tissue may have as its purpose the subsequent realization of medical assistance in procreation for the benefit of the person", does not already cover the parenting project of the person. The current wording of Article 22 seems to me to satisfy the concern that you have expressed in the amendment. I reiterate the negative opinion that the committee has given.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u156	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u157	We agree on the essentials, Mr Gérard: making procreation possible after a treatment affecting fertility. This is the main purpose of the device we are discussing, but it is not the only one. Indeed, it is also a matter of enabling the restoration of a hormonal function – a very important issue for women – regardless of any desire for procreation. Your amendment would restrict the scope of the measure. I therefore suggest that you remove it; Otherwise, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u158	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2302 and 2097, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 2302.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u159	The amendment is intended to allow gametes to be preserved for people who have changed their identity. Even today, the self-conservation of gametes is sometimes denied to transidents by CECOS, even though they are about to undergo a treatment that affects their fertility. The reason for this refusal is that, as the legislation currently stands, persons are not allowed to use gametes at a later stage and that the treatment is the result of a personal choice. Such an interpretation of the law thus endorses a form of institutional transphobia against which we believe it is important to fight. With the passage of the bill, those affected will now be able to use the gametes thus preserved. Therefore, there is no longer any justification for any distinction in conservation. On the other hand, basing the refusal on a person's choice is evidence of a serious lack of knowledge of the transidentity and experience of many people for whom such treatment is vital.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u160	Amendment No 2097 by Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock-Mialon is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u161	I am well aware of the importance of the subject. As I have had the opportunity to explain in a special committee, the wording of Article 22 does not discriminate against transgender persons with regard to the benefit of self-conservation of their gametes or germinal tissues. If a person wishing to change sex has started a transition involving medical care, then it will fall within the scope of Article L. 2141-11 of the Public Health Code, as amended by Article 22: he may request the self-conservation of his germinal gametes or tissues because of the risks that his treatment or operation poses to his fertility. If a person wishing to change sex has not yet started a transition involving medical care, then it will fall within the scope of Article L. 2141-12, as amended by Article 2: he may apply for the self-conservation of his gametes or germinal tissues if he satisfies the conditions, particularly age, provided by this text. It is therefore not necessary to add the phrase "the change in the reference to sex in the civil register does not preclude application", since the provisions of Articles 2 and 22 meet the objective of the amendment. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u162	Amendment No 2057 by Mr Jean-François Eliaou, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u163	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 1450 and 1613. Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to support Amendment No. 1450.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u164	Article 22 extends to the restoration of hormonal function the purposes of the grafting of germ tissue taken and preserved in the context of the preservation of fertility. However, the fifth paragraph of this article limits the sphere of autonomy of the protected adults and extends the obligation to obtain the consent of their representatives beyond the guardianship measures. This provision therefore appears to be in complete contradiction with the philosophy of national and international texts, as well as published reports on the legal protection of adults. On the other hand, the future protection mandate and family empowerment, also mentioned in this paragraph, are legal, not judicial, measures that do not deprive the person of his/her legal capacity. For all these reasons, the purpose of this amendment is to recall that the collection or collection and storage of its gametes or germinal tissues is a strictly personal act falling within the scope of Article 458 of the Civil Code. The latter lists, in a non-limitative manner, acts strictly subject to the consent and autonomy of the protected person, regardless of the protection measure, for which no assistance or representation is possible, as is the case with acts relating to parental authority and adoption. The decision on the conservation of germinal gametes or tissues is, by analogy, of the same kind of act.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u165	Amendment No 1613 by Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u166	I am sensitive, Mrs Brulebois, to your arguments, to which I shall make two points. First, article 22 of the bill only updates the wording of article L. 2141-11 of the Public Health Code by mentioning the need for the consent of representatives of protected majors for legal protection measures that did not yet exist when the previous Bioethics Act of 7 July 2011 was passed, such as family empowerment – the operative part of which came from an order of 15 October 2015, as amended by the law of 23 March 2019 on judicial reform. Secondly, in order to properly fit the scheme from a legal point of view, it would have been preferable – not too late – to also table a supplementary amendment to it in order to amend Article 458 of the Civil Code, which sets out a list of acts deemed strictly personal and thus dispensing with the assistance or representation of the protected person to include, as you wish, the collection, consent to the collection, collection and preservation of gametes or germinal tissues. These two points explain why the Special Committee gave an opinion which was unfavourable to your amendment, but, given the extremely sensitive nature of the question, I will issue an opinion of wisdom on a personal basis and not as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u167	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u168	Given the need to take into account the personal will and the sphere of autonomy to which any major protected person is entitled, the Government is in favour of this amendment. The latter brings the public health code and the civil code into line with the regime of strictly personal acts which only the protected adult can carry out or decide on. The conservation of gametes or germinal tissues seems to us to be an intimate choice, so the protected adult must be able to express his consent or his refusal alone. I have a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u169	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor to support Amendment No. 2556.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u170	This amendment aims to follow a recommendation of the federation of CECOS that a decree in the Council of State would be desirable in order to establish age-limit conditions for the conservation and use of germinal tissues, specifically in women, with a view to avoiding a number of drifts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u171	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u172	I would like to make a number of clarifications about your proposal. It does not seem appropriate to enshrine the collection, collection and self-conservation of gametes and germinal tissues in a pathological context within strict age limits, as you envisage in this amendment. On the one hand, the current law does not set age limits for the benefit of the self-conservation of gametes or germ tissue of minors and adults whose fertility is likely to be prematurely altered, in particular as a result of medical care. On the other hand, if the persons who have benefited from such self-conservation then consider using their germinal gametes or tissues as part of an MPA, the age limits will then be taken into account, i.e. forty-three years for women. On this point, therefore, your amendment is already satisfactory. Finally, the parental project and the AMP are not the only reasons provided for in Article 22 for the conservation of gametes and germinal tissues: the restoration of a hormonal function appears to be another important purpose, especially among women, making it difficult to establish age limits. For these reasons, I suggest that you withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u173	The rapporteur, Mr Jean-François Eliaou, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2060.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u174	This amendment, which has been rewritten following the observations made in the Special Committee, is intended to allow the preserved gametes or germinal tissues of a minor who unfortunately dies to be searched under the same conditions as those currently provided for the preserved germinal gametes or tissues of major persons. In the current state of law, that is impossible. However, this research would make possible the study of spermatogenesis, as well as the verification of the non-contamination of the germinal gametes or tissues retained by the residual disease – that is, the cancerous disease – and often taken from an acute phase of the disease. Indeed, there is no question of injecting both gametes and cancer cells. That is why I am proposing this amendment again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u175	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u176	The opinion is very favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u177	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 866.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u178	The aim of this amendment is to establish a maximum shelf life for gametes after which they would be destroyed. Contrary to my statement of reasons, which contains an error, this period would be five years, not ten years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u179	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u180	I am against your amendment for several reasons: on the one hand, the current ten-year period is preferable for gamete conservation; On the other hand, I note a confusion in your summary statement in which you state that you are in favour of a ten-year retention, while you are in favour of five years in the text of your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u181	I just said there was a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u182	Please excuse me, I didn't hear. I therefore withdraw what I have just said, but I remain against your proposal to reduce the maximum shelf life for gametes of a self-conservation person to five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u183	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor to support Amendment No. 136.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u184	The aim of this amendment is to ensure that gametes which are self-preserved for medical reasons by a sick person cannot be given for an MPA at a later date for the benefit of a third party because of the health risks that their use might entail. This amendment is inspired by Professor Catherine Poirot, Chair of the Research and Study Group on Cryoconservation of the Ovary and Testicle – GRECOT – who explicitly advocated this precaution in her contribution to the committee review of the project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u185	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u186	I shall, Mrs Genevard, give an opinion in favour of your amendment. At present, the possibility, open to persons who have benefited from self-conservation of their gametes in a pathological context, of giving such gametes is already provided for in article R. 2141-18 of the Public Health Code, the provisions of which are high at the legislative level by article 22 of the bill. I will quickly cite, because the list is long, the criteria for the acceptability of gamete donors, provided for by the Biomedicine Agency's Order of 30 June 2017. These include: age; the general health condition assessed by the medical team; the absence of a known risk of transmission of pathology related to personal or family history; satisfactory conclusions of the clinical examination; and, for donors, the initial sperm characteristics and after preparation, for donors, the results of the gynecological balance. While, on a genetic level, a documented study of the donor's family tree and donor will be conducted. In view of all the conditions under which the regulations and the rules of good practice attach to the donation of gametes, it seems to me that it is only in very marginal assumptions that the authorisation could be given to those who benefit from the self-conservation of their gametes on pathological grounds to donate them without the latter being challenged. I am therefore in favour of mentioning the prohibition of the donation of self-preserved gametes for pathological reasons, in line with Article R. 2141-18 of the Public Health Code, so that there is no confusion once and for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u188	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u189	I am very disturbed by this amendment. I know Mrs Poirot very well, so I see what she's referring to. His opinion probably stems from the fact that, in the past, since the oocytes were not known to be frozen, fragments of ovaries were frozen, in which gametes were present, which were re-implanted in the bodies of people, taking the risk of transmitting the donor's disease, particularly in the case of leukaemia. To the extent that we now freeze oocytes or sperm, and no longer tissues, I do not see where the risk would be; an ovocyte alone, frozen, does not transmit cancer cells. That is why I am embarrassed by this amendment. On the other hand, when a volunteer is recruited for a gamete donation, he is asked about his medical history, including cancers: by the questionnaire given to him, then by the CECOS doctor, during a face-to-face interview. Given the current techniques, I do not understand why this amendment was drafted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u190	I don't understand, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u191	My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u192	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u193	I do not understand your position, Madam Minister; You are a well-known doctor, as are Professor Poirot and Dr. Eliaou. It would be reasonable to use the precautionary principle: doubt should benefit the recipient of the embryo.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u194	I put to the vote Amendment No. 136.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u195	[[Smile]] If it is a Ferrand vote, it is adopted!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u196	Mr Breton's amendment No 586 on the title of the chapter is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u197	He's unfavorable. Indeed, there is no alternative proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u198	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-08-O1015.u199	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the bioethics bill. The meeting is adjourned.
