ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u1	The next item is the debate on the organisation of the State and public services. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u2	In October 2017, the Prime Minister launched the Public Action Committee 2022 – CAP 2022 – to assess public policies in many areas of competence in the Republic of Senegal. Contrary to your ambitions, the results of the consultation conducted between November 2017 and March 2018 are unequivocal: 66% of public officials and 60% of users express the feeling of a deterioration of public services. The survey also reveals that 69% of respondents believe that the continuity of public services is not respected. The majority of respondents attributed this decline in the quality of public services to a decrease in resources and downsizing. In fact, public spending has been slowing down for a decade, as a result of austerity policies that have strengthened since the 2008 subprime crisis. The growth rate of public expenditure has been halved since the 2000s, and investments are stagnating. However, during the same period, the French population increased by 9%. While civil servants still account for just over 8 per cent of the total population, the process of decentralization and the increasing disengagement of the State have significantly changed their distribution, moving thousands of civil servants from the State to the territorial civil service. Over the last decade, over 38,000 posts have been abolished in the public finance sector; This was the case for more than 20 per cent of prefectures and sub-prefectures, and for almost 30 per cent of departmental directorates in the territories. In fact, almost all deconcentrated government services are affected by significant downsizing. In an attempt to abolish 120,000 civil servants, the Government is undertaking the largest social plan of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u3	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u4	In my Ariège department, the consequences of these decisions are heavy. They seriously affect the attractiveness of the territory and create many difficulties in people's lives. I don't think we can do better, go faster and further, with less resources. This, however, is the ambition of CAP 2022. But when the intercommunal hospital in the Ariège valleys decides to pool a night nurse's post between two EHPADs – accommodation facilities for dependent elderly people – separated by about 20 kilometres, I would like to be explained how this constitutes an improvement in the service provided to residents. What the staff are entrusting to me is rather that, if an emergency occurs simultaneously in each of the institutions, the nurse in office will have to choose which person he or she will be assisting. The ideological choice of meeting the requirements of Brussels, and sometimes even going beyond its wishes in terms of the liberalisation of public services, also has a detrimental effect on the quality of life of the French. Successive privatisations are never accompanied by an improvement in the service rendered, nor by a reduction in the cost to users, who become customers. Thus, the new convention on regional express trains 2018-2025 for Occitanie offers SNCF the possibility to reduce the annual opening time of railway stations by 40%. In some small stations, there is no window, nor is there an automatic. The only solution offered to customers is to have a smartphone or computer and a printer to buy their tickets online. However, in the territories concerned, in addition to the fact that some people are unsophisticated in the use of new technologies or even without equipment, network and internet coverage remains very limited. Furthermore, the lifting of the obligation to place in trains controllers, who also carry out supervisory and safety tasks, was followed by the abolition of all controllers on certain lines, including the one linking Toulouse to Latour-de-Carol. The Ariegian Defence Committee on this line has identified no fewer than six cases of verbal, physical or sexual assaults since the withdrawal of the controllers from the trains. In his latest report on CAP 2022, the Defender of Rights warns against the temptation to abandon territories and some users, who need sustained support to succeed in this technological revolution. As Mr Toubon points out: "If only one person were to be deprived of his rights because of the dematerialization of a public service, it would be a failure for our democracy and for the rule of law. I too hope that the process of dematerialization under way will respect the founding principles of public service: continuity of service, equality before service and adaptability or mutability.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u5	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u6	To the west of the pond of Berre, on the books of grievances, in the debates, on the roundabouts, in the demonstrations, in the occasion of the strike movements, one of the major demands concerned the defence of the public services: the school, the public transport, the hospital, the post office and all local public services, for example in the fields of sport, culture or water management. This represents almost two thirds of the referrals to the Defender of Rights, which states: "Public services that disappear, inequalities that increase and fundamental rights that are receding". However, from the beginning of this so-called "great national debate" initiated, animated and arbitrated by the President of the Republic, the questions asked were biased, which called for the list of public services "exceeded or too expensive in relation to their usefulness" and, nevertheless, of those which should be developed, knowing, however, that we do not have too much money. In fact, every bill you put on the table reflects your willingness to put yourself, in one way or another, to the market by weakening the capacity of public power. This is what you have done for SNCF, vocational training or housing – to name but a few – not to mention how you are about to dismantle the public service. Yesterday, in this House, where we heard the indistinct echo of a vague debate where, once again, the Government had the last word and answer to everything, you explained, in essence, that the public energy service has not produced anything good and that public monopolies must be challenged, in order to prefer to them the overwhelming private initiative, which would only bring benefits. You then reaffirmed that the wealth created by labor and thus pooled must now be reduced, because it would, you say, be "unbearable". All of this seems to me to be in conformity, and calls for four observations on my part. First, public services emerged with the Republic as early as the 19th century. They are a major tool for equal rights, both between individuals and between territories. They are a lever to structure society other than by the law of the strongest or the appetites for profit. They are corners embedded in the mechanisms of predation of capitalism. They correspond – or should correspond – to the sharing of the right contribution of each and every one. Secondly, this is the reason why, in this moment of financialization of the economy, where finance seeks everywhere to take control, in this period of privatization of the world, of taking over the world by a very small number, I defend the notion of commons, commons, to preserve, protect, promote, conquer – from the square, at the bottom of the city, to the planet. Public services are part of these common goods at the same time as they are instruments of their democratic management. Thirdly, public services are an ecosystem necessary for the development of the social link, for the deployment of the ecological transition, but also for economic dynamics for our territories and businesses. Rather than this leak in the social dumping which does not end, it would be necessary to propose to all the actors this ecosystem favourable to the emergence of virtuous and promising projects. Fourthly, like all of our institutions, the public services are experiencing a crisis, following their continued weakening and cleverly organised misappropriation. It is therefore necessary to renovate them deeply and democratize them, to inject into them logics of gratuitousness, to invent the public services of our time, restored in their function of citizen intervention and social appropriation. Faced with the challenges of everyday life and human needs, faced with social and environmental challenges, everything calls for a new expansion of public services. Indeed, the dynamic of profit is not the right engine to guarantee fundamental rights, and the dividends punctuated in passing will always have a cost to the community. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] To the west of the Berre pond, do you think you are helping the industry, its transformation, its employees, the jobless by abolishing, for example, an AFPA – National Association for Adult Vocational Training? Do you think you can fight air pollution without an efficient public rail freight service to connect the port of Fos to its hinterland? Across the country, we need tools to act on our production patterns, working conditions, and respect for our environment. We need effective public services, using digital advances but relying on recognized women and men in their work. We need public services in the world of medicine, credit, energy, digital, early childhood, autonomy, housing, water management. So let's get out of these logics of disappointment, of damage to the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u7	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u8	The democratic crisis that has been going on in our country for several months has led to new, often legitimate, aspirations. It also illustrates the widening gaps between the territories and between the French. It raises the issue of decentralization, the spatial planning policy we want for our country and the division of powers between the State and local authorities. The Government and Parliament are now facing a simple and clear observation, that of public action in the territories sclerosisd by the verticality of a power that is only expressed through excessive concentration. The result of this centralized organization, of this ambient jacobinism, is the impossibility for the territories to deploy all their potentials. This impotence adds to the sense of relegation or abandonment found in large areas of the country, which leads to the growing distrust of citizens and elected officials. Inadequate transport infrastructure, closures of public services, lack of social housing, galloping medical desertification, devitalisation of medium-sized towns and town centres, difficulty in accessing adequate mobile coverage or a high-quality internet connection: there are many grievances. They all testify to a remoteness, a neglect. This feeling is further reinforced in the territories – rural, island, mountain, periurban or urban – faced with cascading closures: the gendarmerie, the hospital, the court, the treasury, a class, or even a school. As for the state's presence in the territories, it must be noted that, if the acronyms change – RGPP – "general review of public policies" –, the prefecture plan new generations and, now, the "Public Action 2022" programme – the same logics are at work. They contribute to a continuous reduction in the territorial administration of the State, which is similar to a slow devitalization. Our fellow citizens are witnessing a real move of territories, both from private actors and from public actors. They feel that local elected officials no longer have the capacity to act and simply manage the shortage. And that, they can't stand it anymore. Therefore, looking at the situation honestly and lucidly requires us to admit that we must act quickly to reverse the trend and restore its full place to the territories and to those who live there. It is from the intensity and relevance of our reaction that hope will be raised not only for each yellow vest, but for all the French, who no longer believe in public action. Ladies and gentlemen, the Freedom and Territory Group has been formed around three principles: responsibility, freedom and efficiency. Our responsibility is to encourage your Government to act for further deconcentration. Our freedom is to call on you to make new transfers and a better division of competences between local and regional authorities, through a decentralization shock. Our effectiveness will also be yours, if you agree to hear our proposals for a strong State in territories better considered and better armed to radiate and develop. Ladies and gentlemen, the deconcentration we are proposing is, as a first step, to declare a moratorium on the closure of public services. We must stop this haemorrhage and rethink the place of public services in our territories. For example, the digitization of the administration has made it possible to release certain agents, which should be assigned to the territories. Digital can be a chance if it is used to get closer to users. In order to ensure that none of them will remain on the side of the road, it is important to accompany them. This can be done in public service houses, which I had revived when I was in government. Today, we need to make MSAPs more effective, with a wider range of services and better trained and more versatile hospitality workers. These places of mutualisation offer users help, listening and accompaniment in the steps of daily life, and are an element of the attractiveness of our territories. The decentralization shock, to which the Libertés et Territoires group calls the Government, would include the articulation of economic powers between public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – EPCI – and the regions. The responsibility for combating disability could be entrusted to the departments, and the State would recover the responsibility for unaccompanied minors, to name but a few examples. This decentralization will create a policy of spatial planning that respects our citizens and the tremendous potential that only needs to be expressed. In this context, it is enlightening to see the proposals of the major associations of local elected representatives, gathered under the banner "United Territories", which deal with the reshaping of relations between the State and the communities and with financial and fiscal autonomy, and which call for a new division of powers between the communities themselves and between the communities and the State. But promoting balanced spatial planning cannot be conceived by replicating a fixed and unique model. On the contrary, it is necessary to put the tools most suited to the constraints, the assets, the history, the culture and the identity of a territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u10	Moreover, this policy must be drawn up within the framework of a genuine partnership between the State, the regions, the departments and the communal bloc, not only in the illusion of consultation, embodied by these great-masses where elected representatives are summoned to listen politely, without drawing any real conclusions. This tool for the co-construction of territorialised spatial planning policies will enable us to adapt to the particularities of the metropolitan areas and the overseas regions. The necessary consideration of these particularities must, moreover, animate the Government and the legislator as soon as the law is written. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also look at the evolution of the administrative map, which has affected the territorial organisation of the State. The recentralization of powers in the prefectures of the major regions has led to a detrimental remoteness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u11	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u12	Consideration of the proposed law to establish a National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories seems to confirm your vision, placing the state at the national level and the prefects in the departments at the centre of this new public institution. We have proposed shared governance, involving communities on an equal footing, and regret this missed opportunity, which, whatever you say, demonstrates once again the low confidence you have in local elected officials; The CMP's failure on this issue provides further evidence. The differentiated organisation set up in the communities of Corsica and overseas must be rethought and strengthened. A new step must be taken. We believe that these communities should benefit from new transfer of skills. It is time to review the distribution of powers between the State and its communities of special status and to give them greater freedom. The yellow vests ask us to bring our democracy into modernity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u13	They mostly ask to pay less taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u14	This involves the development of a modern planning policy that favours territorial projects: the logic of calls for projects must be abandoned, which is too centralizing and often rewards the same communities, those with sufficient engineering. It is no longer up to the state to act alone – it can no longer do so. It must be part of a contractual approach, including reciprocal obligations to be respected; They will have been defined after a genuine negotiation with the communities, not a false consultation. Local and regional authorities must also have the opportunity to exercise their full regulatory power. The 2003 constitutional revision enshrined in our fundamental text the recognition of this power at the local level. Unfortunately, this regulatory power is not effective in reality, as it is far too restrictive; In addition, the central government tends to dispossess local authorities. The State must have greater confidence in the territories and focus on its sovereign missions. It must be a strategist state that ensures that communities fully exercise their powers. This division must be reflected in the drafting of the law, the scope of which must remain general and which must set overall objectives. It would then be up to communities to plan for adaptations based on their territorial realities. In the overseas regions, the State must remain the guarantor of territorial continuity. A genuine girondin pact must give local and regional authorities broad autonomy, give them more regulatory power and fully apply the principle of subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u15	All right! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u16	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Communities are prepared to meet this new challenge, with a view to accountability and effectiveness. But I am telling you, this will not involve the return of the territorial councillor. So let's trust our collective intelligence! Let us go beyond the old patterns, let us depart from this old Jacobine tradition which weakens us and finally build the Republic of the Territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u17	Mr Jacques Maire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u18	All those who, among us – that is, not everyone here – have participated in citizen debates,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u19	We see people in the field every week!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u20	... have been able to see the strong commitment of the French to public services, which they do not see as a minimum social net – which remains when we have nothing left – but as a fundamental element of our way of life for all, whether we are rich or poor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u21	[[Rires on the benches of the GDR and LR groups]] We are the poor and you are the rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u22	I'm glad to make you smile, I hope this will continue! The French have a quality requirement for public service. France is one of the few countries where excellence is embodied in public service. Let it be in the hospital, in high school...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u23	Pradieu and Jumel, please continue your conversation outside the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u24	... or even, let's say, in the public service, the French are proud of their public services, and they are right to be! But the French also find that they pay very much for their public services and have a high level of waiting. They are disappointed by the decline in public services in fragile territories; they are traumatized by the policy of the planing carried out for years;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u25	And by the reduction of 5 euros from the APL!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u26	... they look forward to the lack of visible substantive reforms; they are concerned about the dehumanisation of services with the "all digital"; They are overwhelmed by the heaviness of the fiscal effort imposed on them. For the French, public services have become too rigid, too bureaucratic, too expensive. These services are almost irreformable. You know the reasons for this: administrative culture, corporatism, over-regulation, the stacking of communities, the unreadable intersection of skills, which means that no one is responsible for anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u27	You should be in the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u28	This is Olivier Dussopt's road map!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u29	Successive governments have done little, but they have spoken a lot and for a long time. It's Philippe Séguin...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u30	A great president!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u31	... which launched the general states of social security in 1987, with the symbol of the whale, a species that is certainly sympathetic but threatened, plunges into the bottomless abyss of the "hole of the security". It was Claude Allègre who, in June 1997, proposed degreasing the mammoth which he saw as national education.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u32	He's been degreased before!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u33	Nicolas Sarkozy, who launched the general review of public policies, summed up the giant plan for the non-replacement of one in two public servants leaving for retirement. It was François Hollande who, with the modernization of public action, remained at the level of diagnostics without entering into the concrete. Yet the demand for change in the state is deafening in France. The French want no less state, but a more efficient state, closer and able to adapt to new demands.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u34	The Congressman's Palice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u35	For this, we are proposing a change of method and ambition for the country. This change has already been expressed for eighteen months: I will not mention the plans for digital transformation, the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1, the plan Ma santé 2022, the railway pact,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u36	What about class and hospital closures?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u37	...but I want to talk about the meaning of reform. In order to succeed where many have failed, we propose to all, members of both the majority and the opposition, to agree to give meaning to the reform of public services, placing the user at the heart of change and mobilising all public decision-makers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u38	We have a lot of proposals!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u39	I would like to highlight two priorities, which I believe many of you will share. The first is to put the user back at the centre of the organisation of public services. It is a matter of tackling the logic of the windows: as you know, each administration tends to operate autonomously and to want to pilot, control and distribute. The result is skeletal services and limited availability in sparsely populated areas. The user is lost in front of this organization. Let's put ourselves in the place of this isolated mother who must address the department for the RSA, the CAF for the family allowances...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u40	And if she wants to take the train, she takes the bus!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u41	... at the Community Social Action Centre for extra-curricular assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u42	We know all this! You've discovered the world!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u43	When you were in short panties, Mr. Pradie, I was already elected local.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u44	What an argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u45	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] We propose to design the presence of public services from the individual in his territory and not from the administrative organization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u46	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u47	A little maturity, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u48	Only Mr Mayor has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u49	Respect for the presidency!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u50	You want us to talk about the respect you showed Jacques Toubon this morning, Mr. Rebeyrotte? No lesson from you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u51	Gentlemen Cordier and Rebeyrotte, please! Mr Mayor, you alone have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u52	We propose to design the presence of public services from the individual in his territory and not from the administrative organization. How? First of all, by organising public services at the level of the living areas, which implies a harmonization of their scope. Secondly, by abandoning the principle that each operator must both finance, manage and distribute the services. Finally, by bringing together, in particular in rural areas, the agents of the various public operators in one-stop social centres. Mrs Pinel will tell you that service houses for the public already exist, but they are only a good starting point, now very insufficient. We want to go beyond and make town halls the houses of the public services of the State, wherever their presence is no longer normally assured.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u53	The houses of the people!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u54	Do you mind if I continue? [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] This development requires a great movement for the benefit of the communes. It will first be necessary to deconcentrate, because the administrations will have to degrease their national and regional headquarters in the metropolises, in order to redeploy the workforce to the citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u55	It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u56	[[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Smile]] Mr Balanant, don't add any more, you can see that the interruptions are reinvigorating! Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u57	What a proof of impartiality!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u58	Mr Jacques Maire, pursue against everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u59	The municipality or intercommunality must be able to accommodate these deconcentrated staff. In addition to the deconcentration movement, a decentralization movement must be launched, in order to give the municipalities a new competence, that of the organization of State social public services in their territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u60	That's a great idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u61	In the long run, this organization will be more efficient and less costly. Of course, this proposal is a upheaval for communities, central governments and public officials. It involves negotiating a territorial pact and a social pact. Second priority: digital rights. Although the French wish to digitize public services, it scares them. They fear a form of dehumanization that would make them lose all contact and complicate access to public services. We must support the French in the use of digital tools, as we have done with the digital pass. We must also give them a simple guarantee that they will always be able to access public services through human contact. Since digitization generates significant savings, a portion of the funding must be used to maintain this link for each public service. But digital technology will first make administration more efficient. In order to realize this wish, we propose a principle: digital technology must facilitate access to rights and make them automatic as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u62	That's brave!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u63	Today, non-recourse is the dead end of our social policies. As you may know, Mr Pradié, the non-recourse concerns 30% of potential beneficiaries of paternity leave, 31% of beneficiaries of allowances for disabled persons, 31% of those for family allowances, 34% for the CMU, 36% for the RSA and even 57% to 70% for supplementary health assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u64	And the digital will fix all this?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u65	Millions of people today do not have access to their rights. This is a social injustice, because the people who are best inserted are asserting their rights while the most fragile do not have access to them. Of course, efforts must be made to improve access to care, as elsewhere, but this automatic approach to access to rights must be systematically undertaken. The beneficiary could lose his marks in the face of an incomprehensible black box. The source levy is blamed for making the payment of the tax painless. In this case, the risk would be that everyone would no longer be able to understand what they are receiving from the community and why. We therefore propose that each beneficiary receive a single periodic social bulletin which, like the wage bulletin, would allow him to know how much he receives, why, under all his social benefits. It's the counterpart of automaticity. In 1788 Condorcet set out the first definition of the accessibility of public services: no Frenchman must be more than a day on horseback from his chief town of department. Today, everything's moving faster. The public service is lagging behind. Yet, far from considering it outdated, the French want it closer, more available, more efficient and less expensive. We no longer want the accounting logic, the planing policy that was the rule. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We want reforms that make the state more effective, but, above all, that have a meaning understood by our fellow citizens: to place the user at the heart of the public service, which is itself placed at the centre of the territory, in each municipality, to put all the digital tools at the service of access to the law for all, and first of all for those who need it most, in order to enable citizens to be involved in the reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u66	Mr Damien Abad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u67	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] A big debate, a small outing, is the fear of 79% of the French according to a poll made public tonight. We are gathered this evening, in the framework of the great national debate, to provide concrete and strong answers to the deep malaise of the French. The President of the Republic, president of fractures and bills, will have to leave the time of speeches and ambiguities to enter the time of decision-making and action. It is no longer time to palabre but to act: to act to meet the expectations of this France of the circles of cordaeus that the power in place grows more and more every day, for this France of the middle classes who are never entitled to nothing and always pay everything, for this France of pensioners who are the first victims of fiscal policy, for this France silent to the increasing anger, for this France of territories so despised and so often forgotten. It is precisely around this France of the territories and the fractures that go through it that I would like to concentrate my remarks, because they are the symbol of this disembodied power, to the all-powerful high administration. The territorial fracture is the mother of all fractures. In 40 years, the differences in wealth between the French regions have increased by 28%. There is no appeal: if the fractures are deep and structural, territorial imbalances have accelerated since 2017. Moreover, in the face of the need for mobility in the landlocked territories, the Government's only response was to limit the speed to 80 kilometres per hour, increase the price of petrol and make our small TER lines the great forgotten of the reform of the SNCF. Similarly, why do 1% of French people, or 650,000 people, still not have access to mobile telephony? Can we still accept that only 45% of households are covered by broadband in rural areas in France, compared with 71% in rural areas in other European countries? If it is a digital divide, it is also a medical fracture, as most rural areas are now beyond the 45-minute security threshold of their proximity hospital. We were waiting for a horse cure to treat an unprecedented hospital crisis, and we find ourselves with some anxiolytics prescribed to soothe the pain of a hospital environment under artificial respiration. Social fracture due to the combined effect of the increase in the CSG and the deindexation of pensions, which have led to an even greater precarisation of our territories, in particular isolated communes where the share of the elderly is twice as high as in Paris. School break, as more than 20% of students in CM2 do not master the French language and do not know how to read or write correctly. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Despite this, the Government has chosen to close more than 1,000 classes in rural areas. Sacrificing our schools in rural areas means sacrificing the future of our children and breaking the republican promise of the social elevator.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u68	You're such an idiot.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u69	I understand that the truth is bad, but the divide between public services is a reality. The annual report of the Defender of Rights confirms that the citizen is feeling more and more distant from the public services. Between 20 and 25 per cent of the population cannot access community-based public services and thus their rights through online applications. Fracture between the state and the communities, a fracture of local governance, as more and more mayors resign during their term of office. Two out of three rural mayors have already indicated that they will not stand for election in 2020. That is why, together with my colleagues LR, we call for a Republic of Proximity with national elected representatives connected to the realities of the territories and a Parliament connected to the realities of the daily lives of the French. We want an act III of decentralisation in order to strengthen the fiscal and financial autonomy of local and regional authorities as well as equalisation between metropolitan and peripheral territories. We want a major Marshall plan for the territories to focus financial efforts on the three priority issues of revitalizing our rural territories: access to digital technology, access to community medicine, and mobility for all. It is urgent to act, but we do not transform France alone, we do not transform France by contemptating local elected officials, suffocating intermediate bodies or suffocating associations. France is not transformed from above with a disconnected view of the daily life of the French and uprooted from the territories. On the contrary, we must leave the territories to transform our country in depth. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This is the whole meaning of our commitment, because France of the territories, it is France that trusts the living forces of the Nation, who believes in decentralization, who promotes the social elevator, who is proud of its terroirs, of its quality agriculture, it is simply a France that trusts the modest people, the ordinary heroes who keep France standing. Let's hear it and act fast, strong and now.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u70	Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u71	"France is an indivisible Republic", is it proclaimed in Article 1 of our Constitution. But France is also that of the 36,000 bell towers, that is, France of the diversity and vitality of our territories: a wealth to which our fellow citizens are strongly attached. During the great national debate, launched on 15 January by the President of the Republic, they called for greater proximity. This high demand is aimed at both the organisation of the State and the organization of public services. The MODEM and related group, which took a large part in this debate, feels particularly concerned by this inquiry, which joins one of the fundamentals of our centrist family, which has always defended a decentralized vision of the organisation of the territory. The feeling that the state, its administrations and its public services are increasingly moving away from the realities, but also from the daily lives of our fellow citizens, is a central element of their treachery. Their expectations are understandable: they refuse a public service that is less and less efficient and more and more distant and expensive. Who, ladies and gentlemen, could remain insensitive to this sense of abandonment? No one! The demands of our fellow citizens are clear: to simplify and shorten the time limits for decisions, to review the administrative organisation and to enable us to take measures that are fully adapted to the specificities of each territory. At the Democratic Movement, we share this desire to take into account local specificities. No doubt, our country has needed to assert its unity over the past centuries through a centralized organization. But today, in order to remain united, we must continue the process of decentralization. This was already understood by General de Gaulle and François Mitterrand. The indivisibility of our Republic must not necessarily imply its uniformity. To affirm this is to recognize France in its diversity, in what in essence makes its wealth and attractiveness in the eyes of the world. Every day we boast France of terroirs and territories, France of geographies and climates, France with various accents, including the Basque Country, all these peculiarities that make France what it is. And we, Members of this House, all represent this plural France, whether from metropolis or overseas. Despite the large decentralizing movement that began in 1982, our State remains highly centralized, which has been further exacerbated by the reduction of resources and personnel. Perhaps there are still too many territorial administrative structures, too slow in decision-making and their implementation. Our administration appears to be too expensive or even ineffective in relation to citizens' expectations. However, we must have confidence in the local authorities, who, well aware of the needs of their territory, are able to take initiatives to meet them. This is the whole issue of territorial differentiation which we call for and which must now be enshrined in the Constitution. To allow greater flexibility, greater adaptation of the rules, in line with the principle of subsidiarity, is to give all its measure to local intelligence, the only one able to meet the needs of our citizens. Moreover, who can doubt that the French remain very attached to the local elected officials to whom they feel closest, and who are for them representative of their daily lives? Without going so far as to propose a constitutionalisation of the general clause of competence for the communes, it is a matter of strengthening their role, and in particular that of the mayors, which is characterized by a functional duplication since they are both agents of the communes and agents of the State. First, it is necessary to make the financial contributions of the State, which could be defined for the whole mandate, more legible in order to ensure budgetary security; But there is also a need to give a more efficient place to mayors within the intercommunal community, by setting up a conference of mayors in each of them, which would be consulted before any important decision is taken. This decentralization must be accompanied by a greater deconcentration of State services. State authorities at the local level, especially at the level of our departments, must be able to take decisions as closely as possible to the concerns of our territories and our fellow citizens. This should be the case, for example, with regional health agencies. In addition, they must ensure the enforcement of laws and regulations, of course, but they must also be more ingrained in a true culture of accompaniment and territorial development. As we know, the relationship between the administration and our fellow citizens is complex: we ask the administration a lot and at the same time we are wary of it. The link of trust between the French and their administration should therefore be encouraged. As we know, this confidence requires greater transparency in both state and local government administrations. That is why we must organize the sobriety of the state. France has the largest compulsory levy rate in the world: more than 48 per cent. It is legitimate for our fellow citizens to question the use of public funds, that is, their money. The State must also be exemplary in restoring confidence to citizens in our institutions. In particular, this confidence must be restored by greater clarity in the rules governing the remuneration of officials and, more broadly, of officials of public and para-public bodies. This applies not only to the main remuneration, but also to the additional benefits attached to it. This transparency is all the more necessary in view of the use of public funds. It goes without saying that this is in no way a systematic mistrust of the men and women who have chosen to serve the State or our local authorities. Like what was decided for the elected representatives in the framework of the law of 15 September 2017 on confidence in political life, this transparency must also be accompanied by moralisation, as the state must tirelessly seek exemplarity. Thus, clarification of the links maintained by civil servants from or from the private sector should be ensured in order to avoid any conflict of interest. In the case of local authorities, why not consider limiting the cumulation of duties and remuneration of senior managers, which is often found at the municipal and inter-municipal levels? Why not consider that, in each department, a deontologist can accompany elected officials and territorial officials, in the interests of transparency and trust?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u72	We'd have to pay for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u73	As you can see, proximity, transparency, moralisation, efficiency, adaptation and subsidiarity are the objectives that must be ours in the context of a reorganisation of the State. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and UDI-Agir groups]] These objectives, however demanding they may be, are the condition of confidence regained between our citizens, our administrations and our public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u74	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u75	Our country is going through unprecedented crises: social crisis, democratic crisis, but also territorial crisis. This territorial divide is reflected in the State's sense of remoteness and neglect of territories. With the stated objective of reducing public spending, there is a challenge to the level of public services provided in our country, as well as to access to these services. The Prime Minister himself said that "if taxes fall, spending will have to fall." I spoke about taxation and public expenditure yesterday, in order to convey our disagreements. In my opinion, the French are prepared to pay a tax provided that it is fair and that they know what it is for. But how do you consent to tax when, in your territory of life, there is no government service left? At the end of 2018, we could read: "The immediate end of the closure of small lines, post offices, schools and maternity offices" on one of the claims lists published by the yellow vests. A perfect illustration of the feeling of widespread abandonment, of the disappearance of the public service in order to clean up public finances, of a divestment of the policy for the benefit of companies. However, companies cannot replace the state. Do I have to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the concept of public service refers to an activity of general interest? Do you not see, then, that the majority desire of the population is to keep these public services? That citizens categorically refuse these missions to be abandoned? This is evidenced by the grunt caused by the concession of Paris Airports, which you had voted in catini, on a Saturday at six o'clock in the morning. If it was a question of decredivising our assembly a little more, it is a success! This grunt will soon be the same as that caused by motorway concessionary companies, which are constantly increasing tariffs at the expense of the user. In order to reduce expenditure on public services, the digitalisation of public services is often mentioned. However, it must not be at the expense of human relations, which are essential to the proximity between the State and citizens. Indeed, rural areas, in addition to being the most affected by the weakening and disappearance of public services, are particularly vulnerable to this digitalisation, as some of them do not even have access to it. Believe me, in view of the testimonies we receive every week in our permanences, white or grey areas are many realities! And what about the democratisation of usages? Some people will always need help with the use of new technologies. Rural communities must regain their full place in order to maintain living territories, dynamic territories, innovation territories and industrial territories. I dare say that no territory is condemned in advance. In response to the many topical questions about the closures of industrial sites in recent months, the Government replied that France had never created more industrial jobs. Of which act. But where are these jobs created? A real spatial planning policy must be put in place. Rural areas, at all levels, need help, resources and therefore public money to be able to develop, and above all create employment and set the population. The Court of Auditors' recent report on access to public services tells us that rural areas, outside the areas of influence of large cities and major employment areas, account for 15% of the population! In these same territories, public services are almost non-existent compared to those of urban basins. In order to make you aware of these disparities, I chose a few figures, communicated by the Directorate General of Local Authorities – DGCL – in 2017. They relate to operating expenditure according to the size of the communes. A municipality with between 3500 and 5000 inhabitants spends an average of 36 euros per capita on culture, compared to 140 euros for a municipality with more than 100,000 inhabitants! Similarly, a municipality with a population of more than 100,000 spends an average of 230 euros per capita on health and social services, while a municipality with a population of between 3000 and 5000 will spend only 39 euros for lack of resources. I would like to remind you that, through its activities in the general interest, public service contributes to the well-being of citizens, to equal opportunities and thus to the dynamics of the territories. [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches]] That is why I am convinced that, like me, you know, in your heart, that there is no less public service, but on the contrary more public service, better public service, for everyone, everywhere in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u76	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u77	This evening we are addressing the fourth theme of the major national debate: the organisation of the State and public services. The movement of yellow vests, as has already been said, is the origin of the rural territories, where the feeling of abandonment is strong, and where the feeling that everything is done for the big cities, and nothing for the rural is omnipresent: the inhabitants of the cities, it is said, have access to the hospital and to a close maternity, they have general and specialized doctors, they have a very high-speed fixed internet and 4G, they have universities and public transport, they have all the services. For 15 to 20 years, rural people have seen the services and small shops closed in their commune: more butchers, more groceries, more coffee, more doctors, more bakeries. The habits of consumption, of life, of journeys have changed. All this is well understood, but the feeling of abandonment remains. So when the state decides to shut down a public service, the population sees it as a betrayal: in rural areas, however, we pay our taxes like everyone else. There is a need to radically change the State's approach to the presence of public services in the territory. The important thing is that service to citizens be maintained, not necessarily the structure that rendered the service. Let us take examples to illustrate it, and to show what needs to be done and what needs not to be done. The closure of post offices, first of all: for pain, it has always been discussed with local elected officials, and solutions of proximity have been put in place, such as communal postal agencies or post offices. The organization was conceived from the beginning, with the aim of maintaining services to citizens. Let us now take the example of closing cash. A telephone call from the departmental director of public finance, laconics, to the mayor and sometimes to the deputy, announces the news. My only question was: "What have you planned for the citizens? No answer. Which means nothing. It is brutal and without alternatives for people, often the most in difficulty, who pay their taxes, or the services provided by the communities, at the counter, in cash. This is in fact unbearable, even unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u78	You voted in the PLF!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u79	However, it was perhaps possible to consider establishing a partnership with the post office, or with a bank, to allow the cash collection of the taxes of the few people who still wish to proceed in this way. This has not even been studied. This is what needs to be changed, ministers!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u80	It's done!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u81	Maybe, but the solution is still not in place! I received a call six months ago from my Departmental Director of Public Finance, but we are still waiting for the alternative. That explains the reaction of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u82	The necessary has been done, in accordance with the finance law that you voted for!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u83	Good if it has been voted, but it is not yet in place. I'm talking about what I see in the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u84	The reality of the ministries is not that of the territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u85	Good if you've brought a solution, but I'll give you an example to the contrary. So bring a solution in all areas. What I am asking you is that every time we decide to close a public service in the territory, we think of an alternative solution for the citizens. Many public services are now closed without a solution for the citizens. Good, if it's been done for cash. [[Applause on a few SOC benches]] The administration, which is now required to achieve savings – which we are voting for, Mr.Minister – thinks first, and sometimes only, of achieving these objectives of budget reduction, rather than of the citizen. This sometimes leads to decisions taken above ground, such as the transfer of water management competence by the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic – NOTRE – or the fixing of the size of the intercommunalities, or the closure of certain local public services. Such a policy meets the needs of the administration and not the needs of citizens. This is also the reason why non-consent to tax is progressing. I am sure that the administration can do better, be closer to the citizens and be more efficient while spending less. First of all, there is a real need to simplify and digitise administrative procedures. Where are we on this point? Today, no one really knows. We propose the establishment by the Government of a real steering, with objectives per ministry and a display of results: it is necessary to be transparent, whether in terms of administrative simplification or digitization of procedures. At least we will know where we really are, beyond communication. We are all aware that digitisation is not the panacea and that a large number of people must be accompanied for several reasons: either they do not have the Internet, or they do not know how to use it or, even more frequently, they are not comfortable with administrative procedures, which are complicated and cumbersome. They fear making mistakes: a CERFA is not always easy to fill in.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u86	Of course! She's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u87	This is why the IDU, Action and Independent Group recommends that every citizen should have the contact details of a local and multi-purpose administrative officer, so that he or she can assist him or her in his or her various administrative procedures, directed at the State, the partners of the State or the communities. Rather than thinking of "service home to the public", which is a place of reception, I suggest that you think of "multiple interlocutor", whose level of competence and mutualization will need to be defined, so that it can process 95% of requests from people who do not wish or who do not know how to carry out the requests online. It is essential: not only will this measure satisfy citizens, but it will certainly also contribute to the reduction of public spending through a better efficiency of the public service. The second topic widely discussed in the meetings of the major national debate is the need for the hunting of public money gaspi at national level. This is the case in many areas, and it is also possible to question some of the ecological transition choices, when it is known that the results of some wind farms promoters range from 150% to 200%. It is true that this is not the subject of tonight. Many of our fellow citizens have asked us about the role, efficiency and cost of several institutions. After all, it's normal: they're the ones who finance them. In July 2017, in front of the parliamentarians gathered in Congress, the President of the Republic promised to clean up – that was his idea, that is my words – all the National Councils and Theodule Committees, which have been formed over time and political debates, and of which no one really knows, in the Government, what they are used for. Work has been done since 2011: we have increased from 668 commissions and advisory bodies placed directly with the Prime Minister, ministers or the Bank of France, to 387 at the end of 2018. But the effort is tarnished and there are still 387 left: a straw! Let us radically change the situation: let us entrust to the Economic, Social and Environmental Council – EESC – all these tasks: moreover, its role, in absolute terms, is to fulfil them. On an ongoing basis, the Government is responsible for organizing consultations and interacting with the Government. Otherwise, citizens and their representatives will have the right to wonder what the EESC is for. If he doesn't have that utility, why keep it? The third issue, on which I cannot remain silent as it has been debated in my constituency, is the provision of health services. Lack of general practitioners, ophthalmologists, gynaecologists, psychiatrists, physiotherapists, nurses, care workers in hospitals or in nursing homes: everywhere, it is the poignant life stories of those who have seen their loved ones die because they did not find the doctor in time, of those who stress how the lack of staff leads to the isolation of their parents in retirement homes and who suffer terribly, or of those who are exhausted by the workload in EHPADs or in the hospital: they feel that they are unable to carry out their mission with the necessary humanity, due to too much planning. We all heard these testimonies during the meetings of the great debate or, so often, during our permanences. These are alarms: yet the field of social or health was not identified as a specific subject of the great national debate. Here are the proposals that I am making this evening on behalf of the IDU Group, Action and Independents: a different method of providing public service to our fellow citizens, by appointing a reference and versatile administrative agent, a real tailor-made aid according to the needs of each individual; a concern for administrative simplification, which is truly effective, with objectives per ministry and a publication of the results obtained; a merger of all the national councils and other Theodule committees with the EESC, as proposed by President Macron; Finally, a genuine strengthening of health and dependency services in all territories, as this community-based public service, which is at the heart of our social pact, is now under way. These are the proposals that we would like to see included in the Government's announcements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u88	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u89	The Minister for Overseas Affairs announced that the income from active solidarity in La Réunion would be recentralised at the state level. This is a proposal I made in this House on 12 June 2018. Today, the political class meeting welcomed this: I welcome it. While only 5% of the hexagonal population is covered by the RSA, this is no less than 30% of our population. This is a huge difference that the State did not take into account when transferring jurisdiction. Thus, the difference between the remaining costs for the department is 150 euros per inhabitant in Réunion, compared with 50 euros in Hexagon. Recentralization is therefore the only solution. However, no date has yet been announced. My first question is: Will this re-centralization be included in the Finance Bill for 2020? Moreover, the Departmental Council notes that State financing has never taken into account the annual evolution of the number of beneficiaries, which has led to a debt of several hundred million euros from the State. Mr. Minister of Action and Public Accounts, can you commit yourself to paying this debt? It's a sum La Réunion needs. Another point: I had the opportunity to meet beekeepers from the meeting a few days ago. Neither the EAWs – agri-environmental measures – nor the apiary renewal fund were paid to them. It is for them a lack which penalises the fight against the disappearance of bees, since it endangers their activity. Are you ready to save beekeepers and, through them, bees and our biodiversity? Are you ready to participate in this way in the rescue of humanity? Overall, FEDOM – the Federation of Overseas Enterprises – tells us that the state spends 5% less per capita in Réunion than in Hexagon. While economic and social inequalities are much more serious there, we learn that the state considers it normal to invest less in our territories. This is a form of discrimination that you continue to discriminate against overseas workers. In parallel to this situation, your government has severely attacked overseas countries: a reduction in the tax reduction and abolition of aided contracts, unrecoverable VAT and the homeownership allowance. In addition, national anti-social measures also affect overseas countries and territories. The complexity of access to public services overseas can also be mentioned. From now on, all approaches are made via the Internet and it is becoming more and more difficult to have someone on the phone or at a counter. The Defender of Rights himself stressed this: digitisation by forced march and without alternative means excludes a whole part of the population from access to fundamental rights. There is therefore an urgent need to find solutions, as excessive digitisation excludes more and more families and creates preventable tragedies, which sometimes result in the explosion of family cells and the removal of fragile people. And now you want to question the enhanced leave of ultramarine officials away from their territories. I would remind you that these enhanced holidays are not a privilege: they are simply a lifeline for a people who have been deraced because of the unemployment that affects their original territory. Do I also have to recall that these same ultramarines are considered a chance for Hexagon, by occupying jobs whose hexagonals no longer want? Yes, to tackle the enhanced holidays is to carry out an act of further abuse on the ultramarines working here and on their families remaining on their native land. Mr. Minister for Action and Public Accounts, Mr. Minister for Local and Regional Authorities, Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth, thousands of ultramarines are mobilizing against this unjust reform. Don't be so hard on yourself, get her out of here! I say to you: the organisation of the State and the overseas public services goes against common sense and the general interest. You are hurling our territories into disaster and people will have to react with new demonstrations. The embers are still hot: the global social explosion is at our doorstep if you continue in this wrong direction. Your method of systematic manipulation of public opinion by the few remaining lieutenants of En march, in order to maintain the illusion that you would be progressives and democrats, no longer holds.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u90	Coming from the kings of the manip'!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u91	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Putting those who want social justice and a new policy as agitators, breakers or violents is a method that, sooner or later, will turn against you. Colleagues, think about it, change your methods and your policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u92	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u93	Long before the yellow vest movement and well before the major debate, the question of public services, particularly in rural areas, was already raised. Of course, this issue is not exclusively that of rural areas, but, in the short time that I am given, it is these territories that I wish to address. This question is a priority for the French: it has often come back in the debates or in the notebooks of expression. It is also of paramount importance in all matters relating to the attractiveness of the territories. The sense of abandonment, often highlighted by the inhabitants of the rural territories, is also rooted in the offending of many services, which, under the pretext that better and more efficient ones will be made, have gradually distanced themselves from the populations. The Court of Auditors has recently submitted a report on access to public services in rural areas as part of an inquiry requested by the National Assembly's Public Policy Review and Review Committee. I have two or three strong elements that are useful to the debate and which deserve to be put forward in the context of proposals – because we are doing so, contrary to what some people claim. The illustrious institution notes that "all the data in these territories converges on the idea of promoting digital access to public services", stressing that it can become for them an instrument of equalization of opportunities. However, the Court adds as soon as possible that, in order to do so, two conditions must be met: that digital infrastructures allow this and that there are accompanying devices for people who are not familiar with these tools. These two conditions are far from being fulfilled. The Court of Auditors continues: "Digital infrastructure in rural areas remains marked by persistent shortcomings. The coverage is lower than in urban areas, both for mobile digital and for fibre. This is a form of inequality harmful to the public service. In addition, the lack of ownership of the IT tool by a large part of the population in rural areas calls for corrective action and a special provision of public services for the benefit of these areas. In the absence of improved infrastructure and efficient and early support for the population towards digital technologies, dematerialisation cannot be an unsolicited solution to the difficulties of access to public services found in these territories. On the contrary, insufficiently anticipated and explained, it risks reinforcing the sense of exclusion that is sometimes that of the inhabitants. » I wanted to come back to this point, because it is a real blow of canife in the wall of certainties opposed until then to those who, of course, have understood the interest of digital, but have also understood that it is only an interesting tool, which cannot be served to all sauces! In any case, more than ever, much greater means must be concentrated on rural areas to combat the digital divide, including by accelerating the deployment of networks. It would be useful to draw on another element of this report: the Court recalls that access to public services in rural areas is an element of spatial planning policy. She pointed out that, alongside the future national agency for territorial cohesion and its ministry of attachment, it was necessary to share the indispensable interdepartmental dimension of this policy, which required a determined impetus and arbitration at the level of the Prime Minister. This lack of coordination has so far resulted in the failure of the State to pursue a concerted multi-year policy for the establishment of its territorial networks. This legitimate finding, while still necessary, is the development of a major law of orientation and programming for rural territories, in order to defend a vision and a real project for these territories. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Rather than one day talking about medical deserts, another about digital technology, a third about mobility, let us aggregate all these problems to look positively at these territories and give them a real future by working around their many assets. This may prevent the occasional closure of station counters, as is the case at the moment in my department of Allier, particularly in my constituency, in Saint-Germain-des-Fossés, where a watchdog committee is leading the fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u94	It's even far below reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u95	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u96	For us, the yellow vest movement is a social, fiscal crisis, but also a crisis of the verticality of power. This is the result of a vision too jacobine, almost prophetic. Yes, some deny it or do not want to see it, but it is a crisis that calls into question the dogmatic thinking of the high political-administrative spheres that direct us, those high spheres that think that the state can still bring solutions to the daily population, remedies to poverty or unemployment. As we all know, this State can no longer respond from above to the need for innovation, responsiveness, economic and social development, rooting and cultural emancipation of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u97	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u98	Many examples now show that decentralized short-term systems and circuits between decision-makers, actors and populations are often, if not all the time, the most virtuous to find appropriate economic and social solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u99	Certainly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u100	This is the case in the field of renewable energy production and distribution; This is the case for organic farming and healthy food; This is the case, for example, for zero-unemployed-territories experiments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u101	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u102	Thus, the traditional nation states must reinvent themselves, refocus themselves primarily on their sovereign missions and give an effective, concrete, frank and structured reality to the principle of subsidiarity. It is time to finally transfer real regulatory power to communities, such as the freedom to organize different levels of education. Why arbitrarily assign schools to municipalities, colleges to departments and high schools to regions? Let the territories organize themselves on this point as they wish! Moreover, the Republic must, of course, allow for the legislative and regulatory autonomy of the territories, for those who so wish and have expressed the democratic wish for it. I am thinking of Corsica, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u103	Corsica is part of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u104	I recall that Polynesia, Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy have a status of autonomy within the French Republic. I say it quietly: autonomy is not independence. I still heard a well-known French journalist, on Europe 1, yesterday, who said that he did not know how to make a difference. How can we still be there today? A German Land is autonomous; Sardinia is autonomous; Madeira is autonomous. But are they independent states? Of course not! What is more natural for an island to have a status of autonomy within a state? This is European normality: all the islands are autonomous, in Italy, Spain, Portugal and Finland, they lay down rules adapted to meet the demands of their constraints and their inhabitants. In response to the peaceful and democratic request made by Corsicans, the President and the Government have so far responded with a denial and a form of condescendence: Corsica's proposals are the subject of a dogmatic refusal of principle. Corsica is unfortunately the most accomplished example of the political and cultural gap between a centralised Republic and its strata of powers, on the one hand, and the territories, the countries, on the other. Moreover, we have seen in the debates on the National Cohesion Agency of the territories that the negative choice made by the executive is, on the contrary, reflected in the strengthening of the prerogatives of the prefects in the implementation of public policies of proximity. This political choice weakens regions and communities in general. This is the hallmark of widespread distrust of elected officials and territorial democracy. Unfortunately, this is the fight of deconcentration against decentralization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u105	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, this choice is one of withdrawal, of the bunkerization of the Republic, and not of oxygenation and the liberation of territorial energies. In this same line, the differentiation that is proposed is unfortunately to date only a decoy and a gas plant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u107	The text has not yet been discussed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u108	According to lawyers, the conditions for a community to obtain it are so demanding that it will be unusable or even inapplicable. In section 17 of the draft constitutional law, the term "limited" is used most frequently. Even before the implementation of differentiation, we are already thinking of limiting it, forcing it in an abusive way, evoking sacrosanct republican equality. However, does Italy break its republican equality, when Sardinia, enjoying fiscal autonomy, votes for own revenue, supplemented by the allocation of a fraction of the proceeds of national taxes, collected on its territory – 70% of income tax, 90% of registration fees, 50% of inheritance taxes? Of course not! We believed, perhaps naively, like Michel Rocard, that the fundamental principles of the French Republic were intended to be "liberating, not oppressive".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u109	What an open mind, this Rocard!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u110	He added in a text dated August 2000: "It would be a shame and a danger that a limited republican chill would prevent the establishment between France and Corsica of new relations based on mutual trust. The Republic would certainly emerge strengthened, as the persistence of the crisis seriously weakens it. He concluded with these words: "Jacobins, do not kill peace! Because the Matignon process for Corsica, operated under the leadership of Lionel Jospin, was weakened by hypercentralizers. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] We have understood for two years that Michel Rocard is not the one who wants to. However, this Government, in the conduct of these affairs in Corsica, would do better to draw inspiration from it. For all these reasons, and a thousand more that I cannot develop for lack of time, I would be tempted to say: "President Macron, do not kill peace! »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u111	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u112	The great national debate confirmed, if necessary, that the organisation of the State and public services was at the heart of the concerns of our fellow citizens, whether it was seen as the real cornerstone of our republican contract or as an administrative Leviathan. Two priority aspirations have emerged in recent weeks: a need for proximity and a need for efficiency. First, only as many French people consider that the state is so distant. It is no longer bearable to hear that the State is increasingly impersonal and that administrative procedures are taking more and more time. Above all, the social link that public service represents has deteriorated, or even for some, broken. Dematerialization has made it possible to increase efficiency, but we may have too often forgotten those for whom it presented difficulties on a daily basis. Of course, there has been significant progress. I would like here to welcome the work of the interdepartmental leadership for almost two years and to mention two experiments, which must be developed: the carte blanche experiment in Cahors and the operation of public services plus.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u113	It's no use!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u114	We have to go a lot further. We must dare the right to experiment in the territories, and the right to differentiation. It must be made clear that we do not need the same public services in Quimper as in Villeneuve-Saint-Georges or Nouméa.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u115	The gunners of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u116	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Let's take it one step further! The Territorial Adviser can be a real step forward and respond to the need for proximity, which has increased since the creation of the large regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u117	Back to the future!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u118	[[Smile]] Consolidate revolutionary Jacobinism!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u119	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, it is by allowing each level to review its own competences, not only in terms of purely administrative boundaries but also in terms of living areas, that we will gain not only in proximity but also in efficiency. We need to set ourselves clear goals. We must finish this quinquennium by having put an end to all the administrative duplications, whether between the State and the territorial authorities, or between the services of the deconcentrated State itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u120	It's a sub-prefect's speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u121	There has also been progress in this area. The Prime Minister did not wait for the great national debate to take the lead: last July, his circular addressed to the Prefects reflected a desire to better share public services, particularly the State, in the departments. I am thinking, for example, of the sharing of support services. Minister Gérald Darmanin, for his part, launched the initiative of deconcentration of proximity. More efficiency in our territories is also more administrative transparency for our citizens. As Jacques Maire said earlier on social benefits, we can go further by offering every citizen a bulletin allowing him to compare the cost of public services with what he receives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u122	Give them a pay slip!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u123	Efficiency indicators should also be defined. I'll propose two. First, public officials. Nothing we tell will be possible without them. Of course, an aspiration for greater republican sobriety for the high public service has been heard, but all other public servants must be given thought and more managerial and organizational culture.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u124	You want to remove 120,000 civil servants!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u125	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I believe that this is the meaning of the bill that will be defended by Mr. Olivier Dussopt in the coming weeks. Secondly, we will not gain in efficiency if parliamentarians do not finally take up the subject of public policy evaluation. We can vote as many laws as we want: if we do not make sure, in our constituencies, that the reforms have an impact on the daily lives of our fellow citizens, we will not be able to evaluate them, to know what works or not, and we will hold exactly the same speech in five years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u126	We'd need impact assessments for all the bills!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u127	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LT groups]] It's up to us to do our public policy evaluation work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u128	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u129	It is difficult for me to start my speech without mentioning the specious nature of this debate. It is specious, first of all, because the segmentation of the themes chosen by the President of the Republic appears completely artificial. To separate the organisation of the State and the taxation is to analyse the consequences of a phenomenon without examining its causes. It is one thing to debate what public service should be in absolute terms; It is another thing to think about, bearing in mind a reality that many of us seem to be unaware of: France is the most taxed country in Europe. It is therefore necessary to prohibit any idea other than a reduction in taxes, and therefore of public expenditure, which does not displease ministers and members of the majority who compete with imagination in this field. This imagination is, moreover, in line with that which has been at work for two years: eleven new samples have been made in France since Emmanuel Macron's election. The debate is specious, then, because everyone understood that the outcome of the great debate would not be decided in Parliament, but in some, in the office of the President of the Republic: great debate or not, it is always the same principle of funnel that applies. In an attempt to do useful work, however, it is essential to recall the context surrounding our discussions. Two seemingly contradictory demands emerged in the early stages of the mobilization of yellow vests: less taxes and more public services. Less taxes? And because of this: with more than 1000 billion euros of levies, the state has never punctured the French so much. More public services? And because: 20 to 25 per cent of the population simply does not have access to it. To solve this impossible equation, we need an ambition that could be formulated as "better public services". It also requires actions requiring a virtue that has so far been lacking in the Government: courage. First of all, it should be stated that civil servants today do not work well enough. According to the Court of Auditors, 310,000 public servants work less than the legal duration, and there are many similar – and perhaps even more – examples in the territorial civil service. That is why the Republicans propose to reinstate the 39 hours in the three public functions, a measure which should be accompanied by wage compensation and genuine professional mobility. If fewer civil servants are needed, better paid and trained civil servants are needed throughout their lives. There is also a need – and this is an interesting aspect of the Public Service Bill – to expand the use of private law contracts, including for management positions. The status of the civil service must no longer be a totem. There is a need to open up to other experiences and routes, and to facilitate public-private round-trips. We must also have the courage to say that with 5.5 million civil servants – 1 million more than in Germany, for example – proof is given that the quantity does not necessarily make the quality of the service rendered, otherwise France would be the best administered country in the world. Too many agents in some places and not enough in others: that's what the problem is. There is an urgent need to remove duplicates and redeploy staff to areas in deficit or suffering areas, particularly in the hospital civil service, which has still not risen from 35 hours. There is room for manoeuvre, ministers. They are considerable and far exceed the theoretical objectives of the Government in reducing the number of civil servants. I will take only one example, which I know well as a Member of Parliament for Paris: the Grand Paris, where one Frenchman in six lives and where the ranks are piled – the State, the Île-de-France region, four departments, the City of Paris, 124 communes, the Greater Paris metropolis, unions by dozens – with so many divergent political and administrative interests! It is a maelström where institutions with similar competences compete with each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u130	Which ones should be deleted, then?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u131	The President of the Republic has been waiting for two years to resolve the institutional issue and organize the governance of this territory - key to boosting French growth. This is a waste of resources and skills, for lack of political courage. We still have to have the courage to say that pension schemes need to be harmonised. The French only support civil servants, in addition to life-long employment, benefit from more advantageous retirement conditions than private employees. Finally, we must have the courage to tackle the 400,000 standards that regulate every piece of our lives and the actions of our companies. It is a necessity that we, as legislators, need first and foremost, and that will allow the public service to debureaucratize in order to make it more effective and more responsive to the needs of society. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] With a deficit of 1.5 percentage points above the euro area average and a debt close to 100% of GDP, any demagogy is prohibited. The Republicans are convinced that, at the cost of a real reform of the public service, it will be possible to offer a better public service, while drastically reducing public spending. In any case, no other serious solution is available to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u132	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u133	The meeting was resumed. Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u134	I come back, after my colleague Vincent Bru, to the issue of public services in the territories. It affects all age groups: the elderly, parents of school children, young people looking for jobs, and I pass. All those who have spoken to us over the past three months have highlighted two points: on the one hand, their deep attachment to public service and, on the other, their fear and suffering in the face of desertification. Of course, one cannot deny a disparity of expectations: some give priority to a more efficient public service, others at its cost. Overall, the French expect a public service accessible, local and personalized; more responsive public services that take greater account of the opinions of users. As we know, the opening of public services follows the development of the dematerialization of approaches: 67% of French people are doing their work on the Internet. First of all, we must keep the commitment of the end of the white zones throughout the territory, because it is an emergency. We must also address the digital divide by avoiding frustrating and humiliating those of us who cannot or do not know how to use the Internet. To impose on them a long journey, sometimes of more than an hour, to reach public services is not acceptable, in the name of equality before the public service. In this way, would it not be wise to introduce criteria for distance or duration for territorial public service hubs? More specifically, these criteria could be taken into account for the establishment of an unmaterialized entrance door in town halls. In fact, all public services, even dematerialized, would be at a reasonable distance from the territory's living areas. The expectation of the French is also that a human presence in public services will be guaranteed. The French public service consists primarily of men and women who make him live, living in a formidable spirit. How could we not subscribe to this vision? We demonstrate here and there that we have the means to pool the devices so that the user can find the answers he expects, including in remote rural areas. By ensuring a human presence of proximity within the framework of public service houses and by continuing to develop them, we have the means to reassure our fellow citizens. The modernisation of public services cannot be done at the expense of users, otherwise it is to forget the primary objective of the public service, which is to serve all citizens equally throughout the territory. On the other hand, the French criticize vertical decisions which do not seem to have taken into account a genuine consultation with the local executive on the organisation of public services in their territory, to the detriment of their users. There is no question here of denying the economic and structural imperatives which have led to the closure of public services in certain localities. Public services have never had to be frozen in their organization, their adaptability being indispensable. But, in the name of the territorial differentiation that is dear to us, it is up to us to rethink the organisation of public services, and above all the method to be adopted in order to better organize them. As a result, a territorial coordination council at the departmental level, composed of the deputies and elected representatives of the various communities, trade unions and associations, but also citizens of the department drawn by lot, would be in the interest of putting the user back at the heart of public policies. This council, chaired by the prefect of department, supported by the departmental scheme for improving the accessibility of services to the public, could make proposals prior to decisions and analyse the impact of all proposed changes in the maintenance or suppression of public services, including those relating to health. Finally, we must listen to the desire of the French to participate more in collective management. Some communities are experimenting with participatory budgets. Why not extend this scheme to all your communities, especially rural ones, by devoting a share of the equipment in rural areas? This would allow the inhabitants, by carrying out a common good project, to strengthen their links with the public services of their territory. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, we can and must overcome the apparent contradiction between two major objectives: a better public service and a reduction in operating expenses. As my colleagues in the MODEM Group have said in previous debates, territorial differentiation requires flexibility and collective intelligence. Enriched by greater citizen participation, it preserves equality and fraternity between us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u135	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u136	In the face of an unprecedented social crisis, which he initially disdained from all his jupitian height and to which he was unable to bring a lasting solution, the President of the Republic therefore played the map of the great debate. But could we really expect anything other than a distorted exercise, with a President of the Republic inviting our fellow citizens to choose the public services that should be abolished in return for a reduction in taxes? A pernicious question, if any, especially since the executive is already well aware of the answer. Indeed, while the majority of citizens want to keep the current scope of public service missions unchanged, your CAP 2022 promises the opposite. Let us also note the extreme contradiction of the Government, which focuses this debate on the budgetary field by advocating a reduction in the public deficit after having so quickly agreed nearly 25 billion euros on the whole quinquennium to the richest 1 per cent. In the face of a policy that runs counter to expressed expectations and benefits only a minority, citizens demand more justice, equality and social cohesion. These flaws, as called for by a recent opinion of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, which cross our society and divide the French, call instead for an improvement of public services. The ideological policy of the executive is at the opposite end of these aspirations. Administered by private management, it pushes us, on the contrary, towards an individualistic and deeply unequal society. It divides instead of gathering. There is nothing more logical, then, that the public service, an instrument of the common good and subject to the principles of continuity, mutability, equality and neutrality, is so hard attacked. Not a day goes by without the French seeing the decline of public services, which aim to cover their most basic needs: to educate themselves, to move, to care for themselves. In the field of education, the additional teacher endowments are not sufficient to meet the Government's stated claims to ensure the duplication of CP and EC1 classes in priority education, while maintaining a sufficient number of teachers in other institutions. The "more teachers than classes" scheme that we had set up has thus been completely exhausted and rural schools are particularly affected by class closures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u137	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u138	The lack of transport, as demonstrated by the Court of Auditors on 20 March, exacerbates the feeling of abandonment of the inhabitants of rural areas. However, we know that the increase in the carbon tax, not accompanied by alternative solutions for rural people in the need to use their vehicles, has been the trigger of the current crisis. Our amendments to the finance bill and our alternative budget made it possible to reconcile the preservation of the purchasing power of the French, their mobility and the imperative of energy transition: they were rejected. Finally, access to care remains the main concern expressed by our fellow citizens. However, our proposal for a law against medical desertification, aimed at ensuring a better distribution of doctors in the territory by means of a selective agreement to health insurance, has been drawn up. I also note the total contradiction between the major declarations of intent surrounding the announcement of the law on the great age and autonomy and the terrible example of the announcement of the closure of an EHPAD in my constituency, a new nose-foot made to this peripheral territory already victimized by the closure of other public services. Let us repeat it forcefully: the closure of a public service destabilizes a territory, alters its attractiveness and contributes to its relegation. To deprive a territory of public services is to condemn it to death. That is why our group will continue to be a force for proposals and will shortly be submitting a new legislative pact reflecting the main proposals of 19 organisations in the framework of the major debate. Faced with this difficulty of accessibility of public services in our rural areas, the Government's only proposal concerns the development of services on the Internet, to the detriment of the presence of a public service of proximity, a vector of sociability. The Defender of Rights, in his January report, did not make a mistake: rejecting a strictly budgetary and accounting approach, the latter alerts you to the dangers of dematerialisation, not to say the dehumanisation of public services, without taking into account the specificities of the territories and likely to aggravate situations of exclusion already observable. And yet, despite the consensus that is emerging to save or even improve public service, the Government intends to weaken it by reducing its human and financial resources, after having degraded them sufficiently so that its users can perceive an altered image. [["Very good!" on the benches of the LR group]] Thus, the proposed reform of the public service is part of this logic of abolishing 120,000 posts of civil servants on the quinquennium, a logic that you had committed yourself to fighting from the time when you were still socialist, Secretary of State Dussopt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u139	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u140	[[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] We believe that there is, on the contrary, an urgent need to build a shield of public services in all territories. That is why we urge you to change your harmful policy in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u141	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u142	First of all, I will address the institutional problems, in particular the institutional millennium which we have deplored for many years. This millefeuille has become increasingly complex: while the MAPTAM laws – the law for the modernization of territorial public action and the affirmation of metropolises – and NOTRE – the law for the new territorial organization of the Republic – had to bring about solutions, they have only aggravated the problem by de facto making intercommunality a fourth territorial level. Today we have about 35,000 communes: 774 new communes bringing together 2500 old communes, and 34,200 communes that I would call historic. Intercommunality has also diversified: 1009 communities of communes, 222 communities of agglomerations, 11 urban communities, 21 metropolises, 6400 SIVU – intercommunal unions with one vocation –, 1000 SIVOM – intercommunal unions with multiple vocations –, 2,800 mixed unions, and I pass on the poles of territorial and rural balance, the patterns of territorial coherence, the countries and departmental agreements. We have 96 departments and 13 regions in metropolitan France. Our country thus has a total of 620000 elected. Moreover, we have moved from the desired intercommunalities to the imposed intercommunalities, which do not correspond to the cantons or to the basins of life. To take the example of the Lozère: 13 cantons, 26 departmental elected since the establishment of the election of men-women binomies and only one deputy. Prior to the reform, there were 25 general councillors, one less, with smaller cantons and intercommunalities often in line with the cantons. It was a proximity response. Where are the notions of "basin of life", of "territory", of "local identity", in these new intercommunities imposed, in these new communes without any historical or geographical justification, in these cantons recouped for political reasons, and without capitals, in regions of 5 million inhabitants on average? How can our fellow citizens find themselves there? Yellow vests and populations say this: they don't understand anything about this institutional mesh.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u143	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u144	The group IUD, Agir et indépendants proposes a rationalisation of the French territorial organization, through the redefinition of cantons and intercommunalities at the level of a basin of life. We also propose to reopen the discussion on the creation of territorial advisers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u145	Less fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u146	I now turn to the problem of competence between local authorities. There is confusion in the distribution of powers, as a result of the above-mentioned laws, whether at the level of municipalities, intercommunalities, departments or regions. The NOTRE law is a real poison that in 2017 and 2018 required the intervention of study firms, legal and financial, in order to try to transfer competences between municipalities and intercommunalities. Everyone denounces the perverse effects of the NOTRE law. How can we understand that the departments are currently managing the colleges, but that they have no decision-making power over the organisation of school transport, which is now the responsibility of the regions? To take another example, the competence in water and sanitation will in principle be transferred to the communities of municipalities next year, while in many cases they are not ready to assume this responsibility. The same applies to the management of aquatic environments and the prevention of floods, or GEMAPI, whose intercommunities will now have to deal with when they are not properly prepared. Our group proposes that a working group be set up without delay to establish a clear, logical division of responsibilities, which will apply the principle of subsidiarity. We can't wait any longer. The President of the Republic, who was not in favour of a reform of decentralization, has recently shown himself, in the national debate, to be open to new communal freedoms and to a revision of the NOTRe Act. I'm saying banco! The associations of elected representatives will have to be reasonable and responsible and stop clinging to their ego. Having said that, I cannot ignore the deterioration of relations between citizens and the administration, as well as between elected officials and the administration. State reforms have led to a strengthening of the regional level at the expense of the departmental level, which has moved administrative decision-making centres away. The departmental directorates of management of category A officials have been emptied. This distance was aggravated by the enlargement of the regions. I take the example of the Lozère: it takes three hours to go from Mende to Toulouse, the seat of the prefecture of the region. Added to this is the dematerialization of procedures, which dehumanizes relations with the administration, not to mention the territorial digital divide, which is striking in this country. Our proposals are as follows. The state administration must listen to the territories, and to that end it must integrate service houses with the public. State engineering must be able to work with elected officials through mobile sub-prefects, which could help in the preparation of dossiers and in the search for public funding. The officials have to get out of the territory! There is also a need for a paradigm shift from a control administration to an accompaniment administration. It is a cultural revolution of the administration, and in particular of the central administrations, which lay down instructions, directives, which make the relationship between citizens and elected representatives more complex. At the same time, each negative response from the administration must be accompanied by a positive response from the citizen or the elected representative. It is necessary to allow standards to be adapted to local realities. The deconcentration of the State must be reoriented towards the departmental directorates in order to restore proximity to the territories. All this requires that the policy regains power over the administration. It's not won. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LT and LR groups]] These are proposals that can restore confidence and meaning to public action, and above all to readability to citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u147	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u148	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] This big debate, or this big blablaze, must have an extraordinary audience at the moment. I would like to take this opportunity to thank a particular audience, that of my 10,000 subscribers on You Tube. I promised them this dedication in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u149	That's fantastic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u150	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] ... because ultimately, the work of parliamentarians takes this interest only because we have this link between what is happening in this Chamber and the outside world, by the modern means available today, namely social networks. I want to thank them for their loyalty, because I will probably have a lot more views on You Tube than listening in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u151	You might have a car for sale while you're there?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u152	I would like to point out that public services are the heritage of those who have nothing, and to France that has nothing, we are so that those who have nothing have more. The aim of public services is to ensure that everyone has access to fundamental rights: health, housing, education, justice, emergency accommodation, etc. They provide a redistribution function in favour of social groups, families, individuals, but also geographical areas. Public services are therefore characterised by the pursuit of a general interest, by taking a form of solidarity which constitutes the social link and the link between each and every one of them and the State, which guarantees social cohesion. However, the reduction of their scope, particularly by your government and under the impetus of the European Union, has been relevant for several years. Privatizations are numerous: post office, telecoms, water, gas, electricity, urban services, public transport, motorways, Aéroports de Paris, Française des jeux, etc. This is justified by a conception of the Republic which is not ours, arguing that public services can be fully provided by the private sector. We are offered a blind dematerialisation, presented as a simplification of the procedures, which is in fact a pretext for abolishing posts, while 7.5 million people are deprived of quality internet coverage and 50% of people who combine isolation and economic insecurity find it difficult to find administrative information on the Internet, not to mention the non-use of rights - for example 36% for the RSA, as the Defender of Rights explained to us this morning in the committee of laws. These budgetary constraints are, in fact, aimed at achieving quantified targets and incentives for profitability, resulting in a deterioration in the quality of public service and the exclusion of the poorest public. This logic of market, of profit-seeking, has therefore gradually replaced the logic of public service, which is rather the search for a general interest, to the detriment of users' access to fundamental rights. At the same time, inequalities, exclusion, poverty and emergency situations are growing, not only at social service outlets, but also in health, education, etc. This difficulty of services in managing an influx of demands is, moreover, a source of disappointment and a distance from access to rights. This failure of the public services to manage complex situations affects first and foremost the most vulnerable people, faced with emergencies that require time, adaptability and contact with interlocutors. By breaking the grievor as you want to do, including Mr.Dussopt, you will only hinder a little more access to fundamental rights and you will aggravate a dangerous break between users. We have proposals. It could be assumed that everyone must have basic public services less than 30 minutes from home, whether by public transport or by individual transport. We could redefine the territorial network of our public services in this way, whether it be maternity, hospital, access to rights, police, education, public finances, cash, or the CAF. This would require a break with the logic that you have implemented with regard to the SNCF and to renationalize it, so that we can have a territorial grid and nearby stations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u153	The SNAF has not been privatized!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u154	Of course, all this will be very expensive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u155	How much?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u156	It is not cost-effective, but we must talk about overall profitability, from the point of view of the environmental objectives and quality of life we set ourselves. If you want revenue, I remind you that VAT fraud is 20 billion euros...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u157	Thank you for closing, Mr. Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u158	[["Thank you for closing! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] ... the fourteen income tax brackets we are proposing are EUR 10 billion 58 billion for CAC 40: we can take a little bit of it. The CICE is 20 billion, the tax credit research, 6 billion, VAT on luxury products, 5 billion, the abrogation of niches on kerosene, 3 billion, the ISF, the flat tax, 7 billion. If you want billions, come and see me, I'll gladly offer them to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u159	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u160	After the time of debate must come that of decisions. Like us, you must have heard the expression of our fellow citizens who strongly demand the maintenance and development of our public services in order to advance the general interest in the territories. This expression is not new, and here I would like to relay the primary struggle of users and railway operators for a large public rail freight service. COP21, COP22, COP23: COP after COP, only intentions are achieved. International agreements are coming together, communication operations are increasing, but acts concerning the transport of goods remain dramatically absent. However, transport is one of the main drivers of greenhouse gas emissions. More specifically, 95 per cent of transport-related emissions are caused by road transport. The modal shift from road to rail is therefore a powerful lever to combat global warming. Everyone agrees, but for lack of political will, the yard stations close one after the other and Fret SNCF wants to abolish almost 15% of its staff by 2021. 700 railway stations are threatened; 6700 railway workers worked on SNCF freight in 2017 compared to 13732 in 2009. Meanwhile, the French die of pollution! Nine out of ten people breathe air that is too polluted and 48,000 people die every year in our country because of this scourge. In my region of Hauts-de-France, where trucks pile each morning on the A1 motorway, there are 6,500 premature deaths each year due to pollution, a dramatic reality to which must be added the health impact of the increase in cardio-respiratory diseases and cancers. It is the question of the future of the planet, the future of our youth. Mobilizations follow each other around the world on the subject. In the face of such brutal figures, the time is no longer for fine speeches or half-measures, especially since tomorrow will be worse. A 30% increase in freight traffic is expected by 2030. In concrete terms, an additional 1 million trucks are expected on European roads. Strong action is therefore needed to ensure a real modal shift from road to rail. From an economic point of view, proof of freight efficiency is no longer required. It is a great tool for industrial development. It can offer economic actors advantageous costs, provided of course that they have sufficient infrastructure and staff. Rail freight is also an effective tool for combating road-based social dumping. However, since 2006 and opening up to competition, the share of rail freight has been falling steadily, while that of road transport is constantly increasing: 1800000 trucks have arrived on our roads in fifteen years. The result is noise pollution, road degradation and a proliferation of roads with heavy truck traffic, which have become accidental. Most of these consequences are borne by communities. This is the record of the rampant privatization of public enterprises that has delivered the freight sector to the appetites of the private sector! SNCF even organises its own internal competition by offering the most profitable traffic to its subsidiaries: local and industrial railways on the rail, GEODIS for the road. It must be noted that the Grenelle de l'Environnement's commitments to increase the share of alternative transport to 25% by 2022 are far from being fulfilled. In France and Europe, the issue of rail freight remains the great forgotten issue of public policies. From the various rail reforms to the Law on Mobility to the Law on Energy Transition, the issue of freight is systematically ignored. The question is, gentlemen, what are we going to do? Do you hear the aspirations of citizens for more public service? Rather than investing in developing rail freight, the answer is always the same with you: to modernize you have to privatize, you have to break, you have to delete, you have to get profitable. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In order to modernise, we must invest, we must dare, we must develop, we must recruit, we must make the bet of a large public service of the rail, the only way to meet the economic, social and environmental challenges! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The youth of the world has pulled the alarm bell. She's now waiting for action!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u161	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u162	I can't start this without saying a word about the form of the exercise that we are doing here in the National Assembly: it is conducive to everything, except for the debate that you call your wishes. The Government does not make any proposals a priori as a basis for our discussions...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u163	We haven't spoken yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u164	... and we are reduced to long hauls which may be followed, after long hours, by vague speeches by ministers. I prefer not to ask myself what our fellow citizens think about it, for those of them who tend to follow us on their screens. It is precisely our citizens and their expectations that I want to talk to you, because that is why we are here. They have a lot to say about the organisation of the State and public services. To do this, I would like to refer to three particularly telling illustrations of the gap between the findings that we all make – and which have led the President of the Republic, your government and the majority to make promises to the French – and the reality that our fellow citizens are living. It is because of this lag and the stacking of promises that you do not realize that the anger of the French has reached the level we know. The first of these shifts is devastating: it is the one that separates sponcifs such as "more homeless in the streets before winter 2017", "more class closures", "stopping hospital closures", and the reality, that is, homeless people in our streets, schools that close or that, tomorrow, will be integrated into colleges, hospitals that are being stripped of their services... We must immediately stop what is perceived as a permanent lie. In this connection, I would like to make two proposals. Agree to transfer some power and resources to local decision-makers. They alone still gain the support of our fellow citizens and they more than anyone who has the fine knowledge of the specific needs of each Frenchman. Decentralizing is not a big word. If local actors are better heard, then decisions will be more likely to be coherent and better understood. Listen to the voices of the territories here in Parliament! It is not reasonable to continue to sweep with a back of the hand scorning all the proposals we make to strengthen the consideration of the territorial nuances of our country! By lowering the democratic debate, it is our Republic that you lower each day a little more. The second gap that I would like to highlight here this evening is the widening gap between your desire to modernise our state, at the service of our fellow citizens, everywhere in France, and what the French see. By reading their complaints that I have transmitted to you and by going through the collections that you are broadcasting, I can assure you that their concern is far less to have less state than to have "better state". The French can no longer afford the inhuman over-administration of our country and, above all, they no longer support all-powerful agencies – regional health agencies, regional environmental, planning and housing directorates, water agencies, which, as it is said, make rain and good weather on their daily lives and escape any democratic control. You do not seem to have heard this message, since in response to this reproach, you have just created the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, a new unidentified flying object that deprives the territories of the little free will they have left. We make you a simple proposition: instead of all this, give the prefects of department some means and power to make exist the state locally and take into account the expectations of the ground! It will be infinitely healthier and more in line with what the French want. The third gap I want to highlight is that which you have created between the promise of modernising our institutions and the reality of what it will mean. Reducing the number of parliamentarians is an attractive proposal, which the French support, but it is urgent that you tell them what it will mean with regard to the possibility of knowing their MP personally, meeting him and questioning him. The way in which the reduction will take place, as well as the voting method, are not just concepts. There is still time to mitigate the negative effects of this attack on the link between defiant citizens and their elected officials. If you're told that you'll kill our Parliament too much, listen to us! If you are warned about the perverse effects of proportional voting, don't wait to be confronted to consider our objections! It is our democracy that is at stake. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] These are the elements that I wanted to highlight and the proposals that I, together with my colleagues in the Republican Group, wanted to submit to you in this exercise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u165	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u166	While it is difficult to know precisely what historians, sociologists or political scientists will remember in a few years from the so-called yellow vests movement and citizen contributions written on the occasion of the great national debate, one fact is already certain: this challenge is first and foremost that of peripheral, peri-urban and rural France, which is the first victim of the growing territorial and social divides in our country. These territories are marked by the economic decline exacerbated by the closure of public services and the lack of resources allocated to communities. The Directorate-General for Local Authorities, DGCL, has just published its study on the finances of municipalities, which confirms that social action and culture have been the first victims of the budgetary restriction in small towns, which is very serious and must challenge us. While our social and territorial cohesion is threatened, how can we accept sacrificing these public policies that are at the very heart of the concept of "living together"? The truth is that local elected officials may be the best managers in the world or the best VRPs in their territories, but they are not magicians. Without state support, without national solidarity, no magic wand will work. If we do not act quickly, these territories may simply be abandoned in favour of competing with the ever more pernicious territories. It is now proven that the theory of the runoff of wealth between territories does not work without a strong desire to correct inequalities. Metropolization, poorly controlled, leads to an impasse and weakens the territorial solidarity of which the State is and must remain the guarantor. Inequality in access to care is one of the most significant elements of this divide and competition between territories. This issue, which was not initially a priority in the context of the major debate, has come back very frequently in discussions and upsurges in recent months. The figures are overwhelming: according to health geographer Emmanuel Vigneron, 3.9 million French people live in territories whose situation is alarming with regard to access to healthcare professionals. There are now 6460 general practitioners in France less than in 2010 and the number of maternity wards has been divided by two. In view of this, local elected officials have been very active and strongly mobilized. They are committed to finding homes for doctors and jobs for their spouses. They increase financial support and in fact create "free zones" for healthcare professionals. For what results? The State has chosen the incentive rather than the regulation and local elected officials pay the price. The multiplication of direct or indirect aids costs the taxpayer extremely much and often benefits doctors already settled, sometimes in the neighbouring municipality. Many of us have said this during our review of the bill to modernize our health care system – but since we have not been heard, I would like to repeat this: for us, the only way to stem costly competition between territories and ensure access to care everywhere and for all is to regulate the way liberal doctors are installed. In parallel with the question of liberal medicine, the closure of hospital services continues to arise despite the many promises to put an end to it. The new status of a community hospital may exacerbate this phenomenon through the downgrading of hundreds of institutions that would lose the surgical services here, that is, maternity hospitals. Beyond medical desertification, many of our citizens are facing a much more global phenomenon of desertification of public services, which takes several forms. The closure of physical windows is an inevitable consequence of the Government's goal of total dematerialization of public services by 2022. For many of our fellow citizens, the pace of this dematerialization may be unsustainable if the state does not invest heavily in digital accompaniment and inclusion. While the Government had made interesting proposals in the context of its strategy for inclusive digital technology, the Territories were still waiting for financial and human resources to effectively meet that challenge. I will certainly be told, in a little tautologically: "the National Cohesion Agency of the territories will take care of it"! Of course, but at this stage, as long as we have no visibility on the level of funding allocated to the Agency, we cannot be sure that it will be able to fully carry out its multiple missions. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the GDR and FI groups]] We now expect, after the major national debate, that the Government will make strong commitments to access public services. Our fellow citizens are calling for an end to the closure of public services, but above all for an ambitious package of measures to reduce the many forms of territorial inequalities in access to care, mobility, digital technology and culture. In short, we must return to the republican promise of territorial equality and to the constitutional principle of equality before the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u167	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u168	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the LR group]] Let me begin by thanking the speakers of each of the groups. Unfortunately, I have not heard much thanks – especially from those who criticize the Government's action – to public service officials who, as we talk about their future, the decisions we will collectively make for them, work every day in the territorial, state or health public service for the well-being of our fellow citizens. Criticism is easy, thanking is sometimes difficult.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u169	One day you will also be thanked, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u170	It is true that the agents of the public services, under all the governments of the Republic, but especially with this government – because we ask them a lot – bear witness to a republican commitment to the body. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is true that many have doubted, in particular on one side of the House, their ability, for example, to set up the tax levy at source. Not hearing any criticism anymore, I guess they're thanking the public finance officers. Let me also be surprised that the speakers – together with my Government colleagues, we listened carefully to them...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u171	That's a big word!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u172	I have listened to you well, Mrs Kuster, and I will answer you in a few moments, do not fear anything: like you, I know how to do several things at once! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore note that of the ten or so opposition speakers, seven have left. The same said that my Government colleagues and I were there to listen to them. I regret the departure of Mrs de La Raudière, Mr Abad, Mr Larive, because we could have answered them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u173	Mr. Dharréville's here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u174	[[Smile. - Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Communists have faults, but they are still present! You could also applause me! It's a bit surprising: people say we don't listen to them, and when we want to answer them, they're not here! But I'm sure they hear us from where they are.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u175	[[Smile]] They're on You Tube!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u176	We can draw some simple ideas from a complicated question. First of all, as the various speakers have said, the French are committed to their public services. Even more so, they are committed to the State and to the idea of it and to their communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u177	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I used to be tied up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u178	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. - Protests on the benches of the FI group]] You are no longer on You Tube: we can now talk quietly. This debate is serious and your presentation, Mr Bernalicis, even after a free advertisement for a multinational channel that pays little tax in France, deserves to be listened to and heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u179	Mr Bernalicis, only the Minister has the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u180	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u181	The French are therefore attached to the State and to their communes, that is what they have said throughout the great debate. Many of you have reminded him, no matter what benches they sit on. It is not surprising, since the mayor is both the elected representative of his fellow citizens and the agent of the state. But they are attached to a state that is close to them and that helps them. I listened with interest to the statements made by Mr Morel-à- L'Hussier and Mr Viala. They said different things, each in their own style. I would focus on the observation that Mr. Viala made, perhaps in spite of him: the French no longer want a super-administration – many here said that there were too many standards, too many officials, circulars, as the President of the Republic would say – and, at the same time, they need more public services and local public officials. This means that the public service can be modernized and public service can be organized differently in the territories – which we have not been able to do collectively – to have more public officials in contact with users in the territories and fewer agents who create standards. We can reshape the public service without imagining a gosplan with a million more civil servants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u182	And without removing 120,000!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u183	Without providing more services to our fellow citizens, they would above all increase public spending and therefore the taxes that you accuse us of creating to crush the middle class. We need to modernise without increasing the amounts committed for a public service that you know is one of the most important in Western countries. You did not say that, Mr Viala, but I stress the paradox that you mentioned. We can agree on that. The State plays a special role in our country. It is because it seems to us that it is a wealth that has enabled us to fight against independence, communalism and regionalism in other European countries. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You should not throw away the baby nation-state with the water of the bath of anger or modernization. There is probably a need for more flexibility in the state, for differentiation and experimentation. I encourage those deputies who ask the Government to adopt the constitutional reform proposed to you by the President of the Republic for the past year and a half.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u184	I didn't see anything on the agenda!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u185	We have been offering you differentiation, experimentation and accompaniment for a year and a half. Although Mr. Acquaviva was right to recall this: there are still administrative temptations to limit a power that has not yet been given. Your point, Mr Acquaviva, deserves to be part of the future reflection of parliamentarians and the Government. At the same time, I am surprised at the way some speakers speak. I regret the absence of Mrs de La Raudière, because I would like to go back to the way she described the territorial organisation of the State. It is as if the majority, who came to power two years ago, bore sole responsibility for the current situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u186	Well, that's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u187	I will also reply to Mrs Pires Beaune, who has remained and who I am always listening to, and to other opposition parliamentarians who have had to make decisions when they were in charge. Under the previous two governments, there were 1200 cash closures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u188	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u189	Perhaps it was necessary to adjust the cash card because habits change: you pay your taxes differently, especially because of digitization, even if it has not yet become a reflex for everyone. It is necessary to accompany the movement by avoiding demagogy. We would be the ones who shut down the public services, while the closure plans took place under the previous governments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u190	It's easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u191	When I hear some of the speakers calling for additional tax officers while they have made major social plans at the Directorate-General for Public Finance, I cling. We may have made mistakes collectively and insufficiently deconcentrated. We may not have told the central government enough to tighten a little bit more to be closer to the territories. But it's a collective work. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You cannot say from the top of the gallery that you wash your hands. It is collectively that we have not been able to organize the territory. You have to know how to share his fault. I hear a lot of people criticizing. Many believers are not practicing much when they are in power. We must modernise the public service without lying to the public. I will take the example of the administration for which I have responsibility, but the Minister of the Interior could say the same thing with regard to the organisation of the prefectural and that of the local authorities. France is modernising. Modernisation is not everything, it is not a goal in itself, but digitisation works even if the movement has to be accompanied so that this is the case everywhere. At the end of the pipe, we need humans. Elected politicians, parliamentarians and locals are demanding digital, but also human beings. There is probably a need to review the way we design public service, and the machine does not replace man. However, the public service is being modernized. When we remove the housing tax, which is responsible for 35% of the litigation in the treasury, it is a way of modernising the public service. People came to make claims about a complicated tax, causing address errors and litigation. There will be fewer people in these cashes. Mrs. de La Raudière has left, but our majority is the one who proposed...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u192	I'll be your voice carrier!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u193	Mrs. de La Raudière is gone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u194	There's a personal dispute!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u195	Mrs. de La Raudière is gone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u196	Let's wake her up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u197	[[Exclaims and laughter on various benches]] Mrs de La Raudière blames us for not having been able to modernise the public service But Mrs de La Raudière has left. Mr. Vigier, you were present during the discussion of the finance bill when we decided to stop reducing the cash portion of cash payments every year. There are people who want to continue paying in cash. These include elderly people or people who are over-indebted and no longer have cheques or credit cards. The previous two majorities had reduced the authorized amount for cash payments. However, the main task of the public finance officers is not to count the coins to recover the payment of fines or housing tax. That is why we have launched a call for tenders that will allow La Poste and the ruralists to receive these settlements in cash in their networks. Mrs de La Raudière asks us to do something for which she voted last year...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u198	[[Smile]] While she's gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u199	[[Exclaims and laughter on various benches]] ...what amazes me a little. But since she's gone, she can't listen to me. I would like to go back to Jacques Maire's interesting proposal on "contemporaneization" and the automaticity of social benefits. He is right: recovery of these allowances should be done where people need it. This is a very important issue for people who are not suffering from administrative phobia, but from remoteness from the administration. We owe them that improvement. I know too many people who, for example, don't get the energy check because they haven't reported their taxes. If they have not declared their taxes, it is not because they are fraudsters. They didn't do it because they're away from administrative life. If they had made a return, it would have been found that they were non-taxable and had to receive that cheque. We addressed this issue at the time of the debate on the finance bill, about the remaining credits for the energy check. Your demonstration, Mr. Member of Parliament, was struck at the corner of common sense. We must indeed go towards this accompanying administration, of social proximity. We are in favour, as the Member of Parliament Laurent Saint-Martin suggested, of giving the cost of public services to our citizens every year, so that they feel citizens and tax-related. We are in favour of the social bulletin and the accompaniment of automaticity, as you proposed. This is the meaning of the work you do with parliamentarians, especially those of MODEM, on the single allowance and on the link between citizens and social benefits. The sampling at source will allow this. Mrs. Kuster spoke of amazing things.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u200	I'm here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u201	I saw you were here, Mrs. Kuster! Let me regret, however, that you were not there yesterday.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u202	It's a little easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u203	Yesterday we talked a lot about public finances and taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u204	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u205	Mrs. Louwagie was there. We talked a lot about public spending and, Mrs. Kuster, your group asked us...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u206	You can't blame me for not being here yesterday!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u207	Madam Member, you would have listened carefully. What happened yesterday? Your political group has asked the Government to make an unprecedented savings plan. He asked us to abolish 50,000 public officials, in accordance with the commitment made during the presidential campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u208	Where are the other ministers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u209	Yesterday, your political group asked that public officials pay 39 hours 35 hours. Today, you tell us that they have to do the 39 hours, but paid 39 hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u210	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u211	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] In addition, you tell us that public spending must be reduced. Please be aware that the 39 hours paid 39 hours would amount to EUR 30 billion in additional public expenditure. Tell us, once and for all, if you ask public officials to make 35 hours paid 35 hours, or 39 hours paid 35 hours, or 39 hours paid 39 hours, but please stop, ma'am, from doing like the bell tower of the Church of Saint Christophe of Tourcoing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u212	That public servants are already 35 hours, and it'll be better!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u213	In this case, the issue of public expenditure is very interesting. In the reform of the public service, we call on local communities, within one year of their election, to apply the 35 hours. We are quite prepared to discuss this so that in the public service of the State, no doubt with a few exceptions, the timetables are in accordance with the legal duration of the working time. Similarly, you say that there are too many duplicates, by evoking the Greater Paris. But, Member of Parliament, we did not hear what your choice was.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u214	It's a debate that only interests the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u215	What structure should be removed in Île-de-France in order to comply with the administrative simplification you call for?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u216	The Ministry of Finance!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u217	Remove Bercy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u218	You have made a lot of observations, but few proposals. If you want us to say there's an administrative millefeuille, we're pretty much in agreement. You who are an elected Parisian, tell us which body to delete in Paris. This is a very important point, to which we will be very attentive. Mr. Morel-À-L'Huissier addressed some very interesting topics that would merit consideration by the Government, the National Assembly and the Senate. He referred in particular to the right to error and accompanying. We are trying to do this, but we still have to take concrete steps.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u219	It's true that for a few months, everything has been fine in our country!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u220	All the implementing decrees have been adopted and we have put in place many measures concerning the right to error, including the duration of control in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region and in the Hauts-de-France region. This will revolutionize the accompaniment you want. We encourage fiscal partnership, based on the British model. As several parliamentarians have pointed out, experiments are also carried out in three departments so that the same officer can answer multiple questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u221	You answered below the belt to one of the best deputies of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u222	We need to continue this support. You, who are elected from a rural territory, believe that things must be done differently in Lozère and Île-de-France. It's struck at the corner of common sense. This is not taken into account in our current territorial organization. Earlier in Brittany, the President of the Republic said the same thing as you, and Sébastien Lecornu may also abound in your sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u223	It will certainly be more elegant than you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u224	I don't know if Emmanuel Macron quotes Morel -À-L' Huissier or if it's the other way around, but one thing is certain: the prefects must have, like the elected ones, more power of decision at the local level. We must stop deciding from Paris and accompany the Lozère and Île-de-France in a different way. This is one of the lessons to be learned from the great national debate. Several parliamentarians, on various political sides, have mentioned this. [[Laughs and applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Bernalicis believes that the SNCF should be nationalised. Why not if she was privatized? The only difficulty, honourable Member, is that she is not privatized. If your movement ever comes to power, it should not entrust you with the public accounts: nationalizing a company that is already in power would cost us a lot. That would be very annoying for the public accounts. You have also spoken in common sense, such as Mr Dharréville, whose presentation leads us to question ourselves since we are, like you, in territories. Public officials need to be more accountable and encouraged.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u225	Less and better paid!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u226	They obviously do not make a profit, because it is not the role of public officials. You don't want their ratings tied to merit. We will discuss it again in the context of the reform that Olivier Dussopt will present. However, Mr President, we can agree on one point: the tasks entrusted to them must correspond to the means given to them. To date, successive governments have applied a rule on the replacement of retiring civil servants: one in two or two out of three. For our part, we dare to say that we are changing the tasks, particularly those of the public finance administration: abolition of the housing tax, fiscal partnership, data mining, adoption of the levy at source, which amounts to the abolition of the tax return. Of course, we have a discussion about the means we give him. It is certain that the Government will have to define these missions before the National Assembly and the Senate. Laurent Saint-Martin, who has done an important evaluation work, is right to say that you must force the Government to draw the conclusions of the evaluations you are doing. The Court of Auditors also makes evaluations. His reports are poorly followed and they are not always quoted in extenso. The Communist Group referred to the Court of Auditors' report on digital in rural areas. You will have found that the Court of Auditors considers that there is no digital problem in rural areas. This is a point on which we can also disagree with the judges of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u227	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u228	I know that very well, since you have only taken up what was right for you, honourable Member, but allow me to complete your remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u229	I quoted exactly what the Court of Auditors said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u230	In the Government, we pay close attention to evaluation reports, wherever they come from, and in particular those of Parliament. Mr Bernalicis asked me yesterday to read the information report...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u231	I was there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u232	Indeed, and you invited me to read the information report on the evaluation of the fight against financial crime, which you co-edited with a Member of Parliament for the majority, Mr Jacques Maire, and presented to the Ministry of the Interior and to the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts. We will work on the evaluation you have conducted and draw conclusions from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u233	I hope so!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u234	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In addition, I note with interest Minister Lecornu's position – supported on several benches of this assembly, the majority and the opposition – that the question of the territorial councillor deserves to be debated. This is an important point.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u235	Back to the future! He said the opposite when he presided over the departmental council of the Eure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u236	I objected to the removal of the departments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u237	[[Smile]] Come on, Mr. Jumel! Mr. Lecornu is young, but he wasn't president of a departmental council when we imagined the territorial councillor! He didn't even have the college certificate, that's to say! For my part, I think this is an interesting idea, due to President Sarkozy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u238	Let us give back to Caesar what belongs to Caesar!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u239	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Moreover, I am surprised that François Baroin no longer supports her. We can agree as we can have differences, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Republican Group. To Presidents Baroin and Morin, who are former ministers of President Sarkozy, I reply that I have always been in favour of the establishment of the Territorial Councillor – there is no doubt on this point – without however refusing to be debated. The regional divide has changed since then, and we must ask ourselves how things will work tomorrow. Minister Lecornu, in this debate, did not say that the territorial councillor should be imposed, but that the issues should be addressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u240	Especially the proximity to the territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u241	He is early, if he presided over the departmental council of the Eure one year after obtaining the patent of the colleges!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u242	It seems to me that the National Assembly, in all or almost all of its components, has not envisaged the abolition of an election step, because the French are keen on each of them and no longer want to change the electoral map. With regard to the merger of the cantons, which has been mentioned, I am not sure that it is the best solution, nor is it the modification of local and regional authorities. On the other hand, considering the election on the basis of the proximity offered by the canton seems to me to be an interesting proposal. Why not? We will see if this idea emerges from the great national debate. That's what I wanted to tell you, ladies and gentlemen. It is certain that these parliamentary debates, at the end of the great national debate, can be a little frustrating, because we cannot discuss concrete proposals on which the Government would commit itself. However, the symbol was strong: parliamentarians had spoken before the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u243	It wasn't originally planned!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u244	Several questions were raised last night in a very interesting debate that we will continue. Next Monday, the Prime Minister will return the great national debate. Then, the President of the Republic will have the opportunity to address proposals to the nation, which parliamentarians will vote, amend or challenge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u245	Alone and isolated at his office!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u246	Mr Brun, the President of the Republic is elected by all the French. He has here – more than all of us, it seems to me – an opportunity to explain what he understood about the great national debate. Parliament will then debate its proposals. Clearly, it is he who will debate them and who will vote, amend them and evaluate them. What is certain is that we must improve the supply of public services in our territories, without being completely schizophrenic: at the same time, we cannot blame ourselves for not fighting enough against the increase in public expenditure or for increasing taxation. This is a difficult paradox to solve!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u247	You're not at a paradox!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u248	In any case, it is certain that we must, for the good of the French nation, act with no pretentiousness and humility – of which I hope it is shared, and I know it is, on every bench. We are ready to listen to what the French people have said and to try to change things, in particular by giving more resources to rural areas, community services and the accompanying arrangements for the territories. We consider France to be a beautiful country...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u249	You finish better than you started!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u250	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ...and that we can say thank you to the public service officials, whatever government they serve.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u251	We come to the questions. I would like to point out that the duration of the questions, as well as the duration of the answers, is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u252	Throughout France, in recent weeks, teachers have expressed their deep disagreement with the bill for a school of trust. But you are not unaware, gentlemen, of the fact that, in terms of public services, education is one of the most essential. Since December, more than 700,000 national education officials have mobilized on digital platforms and social networks. Since February, they – and they – have been on the streets to protest against the social breakdown that you are organizing carefully. For the sake of economy of means, you group schools in the peri-urban territories. In doing so, you close classes in rural areas. You are strengthening the isolation and precarization of thousands of families and children. You are deepening social, territorial and cultural inequalities between students. You abolish the positions of principal and principal of school, through the constitution of public institutions of basic knowledge, and call the teachers who deplore it as liars. Funny way to build trust! Along with the parents of students, organized in their unions, and committees of the "red pens", teachers launch the alert by going on strike throughout France. While Mr Blanquer, Minister of National Education and Youth, went around the media, the grids of 150 to 200 schools in my department of Gironde – a quarter of its schools – were closed. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Privatization of schools, organized social sorting and authoritarianism cannot be correct and just measures for the children of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u253	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u254	The bigger it is, the more it goes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u255	[[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] To this legitimate opposition, you respond with the strong and brutal way. On 19 March, teachers were gassed in front of the rectorate of the Toulouse Academy, even though they were only demonstrating their opposition to your reforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u256	And we eat kids, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u257	The anti-criminality brigade was dispatched to dislodge the strikers, on the order of the rectress of the academy, Madame Anne Bisagni-Faure! When will you finally make sure to reduce inequalities in access to education? When will you ensure decent working conditions and wages for national education staff? When will you understand that our school – the school of the Republic – is not a cost but an investment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u258	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u259	I'm finishing, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u260	Yes, finish!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u261	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Victor Hugo said: "Schoolmasters are gardeners in human intelligence." I feel like this government is trying to spread glyphosate on these young shoots!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u262	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u263	Mr Prud'homme, I did not understand the meaning of your question, because it was not clearly formulated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u264	That's because you weren't here yesterday!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u265	I understand that you do not fully agree with the policy pursued by the Minister of National Education and Youth, if I have summarized the situation correctly. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] First of all, let me recall that no government, whether in budgetary matters or in practice, has done as much for national education as Edward Philippe's. It has increased budgetary appropriations for the most important school in the Republic, I am well placed to say, of all the governments of the Fifth Republic. What did Minister Blanquer do? First of all, it has broken in the way – since we are debating this evening the organisation of the state and public services – this absurd idea that the state can impose school rhythms on the mayors of France, who are the first to know, at the local level, how to organize themselves in this field. The school rhythms of the child are not the same in Lozère and Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u266	I'm talking about the National Education Officers!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u267	Let me talk about children and parents. That the school should also be made for them should not disturb you! Then, no minister of national education will have given teachers, during a quinquennium, an increase in purchasing power as large as that decided by Mr Blanquer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u268	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u269	The PPCR protocol – career paths, careers and remuneration – will increase the remuneration of each teacher by EUR 100 – we are financing this increase to 90% – by 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u270	These are mostly career extensions!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u271	That's an extra 100 euros, Mr. Prud'homme! It would be good, from time to time, for you to enjoy the good news, especially if it concerns the people you seem to want to defend. As for teachers' overtime, they have never been paid so well as by this government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u272	By comparison with other European countries, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u273	Work more to earn more, we know!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u274	The REP+ premium of EUR 1000 will be doubled for teachers assigned to a priority education network institution. Only this government did. The duplication of classes whose pupils come from difficult backgrounds, where it is known that school difficulties are the greatest, only this government has done so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u275	What about rural areas?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u276	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] There is no teacher in France, it seems to me, who does not find that the public policy of doubling classes in CP and CE1 in the REP + zone is a good investment for the Republic and that many people should have done it before. You should be glad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u277	That's why they'll be on the street tomorrow!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u278	Mr Prud'homme, a thousand lies will never be true. Pedagogy, it seems to me, is the art of repetition. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Let me tell you that we are proud of the school of the Republic. This government is putting it forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u279	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u280	Big debate or big illusion? We have the right to question ourselves, gentlemen, the ministers, the secretaries of state. While the French were debating, the Government and its majority were continuing their small business, without ever changing course or questioning each other. Justice reform, health reform, CAPTE law and other privatisations: all the projects that deserved to be suspended, since they were supposed to leave the people to express themselves! You will easily understand that there are questions about the sincerity of your approach. What remains of the great national debate? Brioche crumbs for those who want bread! The great illusion, no doubt! My question concerns the reorganization of state services in Guyana, announced by the President of the Republic on 26 October 2017 and recently presented by the Prime Minister. Incomprehension reigns, both in substance and in form. Indeed, the Head of State promised to strengthen the territorial engineering of services and their capacity to better support local communities. It was hoped, therefore, that there would be a real deconcentration movement, aimed at giving more shared intelligence to deconcentrated services. But that is absolutely not the case. On the form, this reorganization takes place without the fact that the parliamentarians of Guyana – whose role is also to monitor the action of the Government and to evaluate public policies – have been consulted, and the local elected representatives have not been consulted. By doing so, you are committed to the future of the territory. It is a matter of revising the capacity of the State to meet the necessary efficiency requirements, which have so far been sorely lacking. Even more serious, the chosen timetable is intriguing. Indeed, the Guyana Agreement signed on 21 April 2017 provides that Guyanans will be consulted in the short term on a possible statutory evolution of the territory. However, a "French Guiana project" is being developed locally. Shouldn't we wait for it to succeed, in order to build together the foundations of a new organization of local and state institutions in Guyana? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] My question is clear: can we stop putting the plough before the ox, in order to demonstrate the real motivation of the state to accompany Guyana towards excellence?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u281	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u282	Mr Serville, as you recalled, the President of the Republic visited Guyana in autumn 2017. He noted shortcomings and therefore announced the opening of a reflection on the transformation of State services in Guyana, in order to take account of the specific characteristics of this territory, in particular with regard to security, social and economic problems and immensity. A reflection has therefore been initiated. I can assure you that some arbitrations have already been rendered by the Prime Minister, and give you some guidance on the state of play – because this is the subject of this debate – which was conducted with the services of the Minister for Overseas Affairs. It is envisaged that under the authority of the Prefect, at interministerial level, administrative directorates will be set up to implement certain State policies, including social cohesion and territorial development policy and security policy. A second focus is on the possibility of pooling resources between State services. A third focus is on building and real estate engineering. The aim is to create, in the medium term, an administrative city in Cayenne and another in Saint-Laurent-du-Maroni, with a view to consolidating the State services and reshaping their organization throughout the territory of Guyana. You're asking us about the possibility of deconcentrating state powers. This reflection is also under way and measures have already been taken. Last July, a circular was sent to the prefects to make proposals on powers that could be deconcentrated. This reflection will continue. In addition, with regard to the Ministry of the Interior, the classification of prefectural posts will be reviewed with a view to making them very attractive. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is the answer I can give, Mr Serville. We believe that we are determined, in the context of the great national debate, to adapt to the reality of the territories and to apply the principle of modularity as often as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u283	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u284	My contribution will go in the same direction as those of my colleagues Pinel and Acquaviva, whom you may not have heard correctly, ministers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u285	If you say so!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u286	You see that the members of the Libertés et territoires group are proportionally the most numerous this evening, which demonstrates their interest in this type of debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u287	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u288	France is probably one of the largest and most diverse countries in Europe, but unfortunately also the most centralized – which has the effect of annihilating public action by local elected officials. Today, our local and regional authorities need real fiscal autonomy and real legislative and regulatory adaptability in order to embrace the great diversity of our territories. To believe that the current distribution of jurisdiction and consistency of the law are effective responses to all situations is only a view of the mind. Emmanuel Macron had promised a "girondin pact". However, the developments proposed in the very hypothetical constitutional review will be ineffective; We have already denounced this state of affairs. In the Marseille appeal of 26 September 2018, the presidents of the associations of the mayors of France, the departments and the regions of France launched a very clear message: a new stage of decentralization is necessary in order to lead us towards a truly decentralized Republic. The President of the Republic was today in Saint-Brieuc, at the first meeting of the mayors of Brittany. The 600 elected representatives present asked him for more freedom, to make Brittany a laboratory. The President of the Brittany region calls for a democratic upsurge through differentiation and a prominent Breton elected member of our assembly, Richard Ferrand, advocates for a law giving more room for manoeuvre to the territories. However, in the concrete proposals that are circulating, it would be a matter of responding to these demands by giving more powers to the prefects! The terrible territorial councillor could also make his return. Once again, deconcentration and decentralization are confused, as one confuses the reduction of the number of elected officials with the efficiency of public action. In fact, local elected officials denounce a recentralization of decisions, and they do so forcefully. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Ministers, gentlemen, the Secretaries of State, this is an opportunity for you to make France a modern state, to European standards. Between subsidiarity and the Bonapartist model, will you be able to empower local elected officials to conduct our public policies efficiently? I think it's a necessity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u289	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u290	You are wrong, I believe, to oppose decentralization and deconcentration; In fact, the mayors of Brittany spoke extensively this morning on these two aspects. They complained about the removal of the State and its move from the departmental level to the regional level; They regretted a sometimes significant distance between them and the rectorates, between them and the regional health agencies. What the great national debate says is a need for proximity to the public authorities. There is a question of decentralization, but also of deconcentration. You blame us, a little free of charge, for not listening to your colleagues' comments. But it seems that you yourself, elected from the Morbihan, did not hear the President of the Republic speaking to the mayors of Brittany this morning. He said yes to a decentralization movement for outreach skills; He said yes to a decentralization movement that will make it possible to clearly identify the responsibilities of each one, because today, unfortunately, different bodies are dealing with everything, and ultimately no one is responsible for anything. This process will also raise questions about financial and tax resources. We need to move forward. But to do that, you'll have to be precise! The Head of State gave the "go" for the opening of this new project of decentralization. We will therefore work with elected associations, with the National Assembly, with the Senate. But in your question, I didn't hear you mention specific skills: which ones do you talk about, and at what level? As for the territorial councillor, you distinguish him only to better attack him. But if it is indeed one of the proposals that is on the table, and we are expert on it, it is because local elected representatives did so formally during the national debate. On the other hand, we have been in this House for twenty-one hours and thirty, and we must admit that we have heard few proposals. I would therefore like to thank Mr Morel-À-L'Huissier, and several Members of the LaREM and MODEM groups, who have made concrete and precise proposals: now we really need to write this new act of decentralization. Lastly, with regard to differentiation, everything was in the draft constitutional reform bill that had been submitted by the Government: it authorized derogations, it authorized the transfer of norms, i.e. State powers, to certain territorial authorities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Let's stop the slogans, and let's get around the table to work!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u291	Mrs Sophie Errante has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u292	We have heard a lot of misunderstanding and anger about the organization of our public services: too long response times, negative decisions rendered without explanation, different responses depending on the place of life without justification. We also met with poor public officials and found that our complex organization often does not trust those who are in contact with the population – by the way, a big thank you to them. These irritations, these barriers, we had already identified them and we began to respond to them with the law for a state at the service of a society of trust, often called "law for the right to error". We will soon be debating the bill to accompany the transformation of the civil service; The Government has drawn up a poverty plan, a health plan; We will soon be discussing draft laws on disability and ageing. We believe in effective public action, which protects, advises, accompanies and simplifies life. We owe this requirement of efficiency and transparency to our fellow citizens. No public service is free, even when payment is made indirectly through taxes or taxes. While few of our citizens are aware of the significant gap between the real cost of public services and what they actually pay for it, how can this collective effort be made concrete and readable for every citizen? The administrative millefeuille, often denounced, could be lightened by a system of local democracy where elected officials, more versatile, would have more hindrance. Can the Territorial Adviser be a solution to improve responses to each territory? With regard to the demand for proximity and adaptation, is the town hall not the first point of contact for citizens? With regard to the more rural territories, could it be possible to establish or intensify itinerant or consolidated public services? Finally, will the different services finally dialogue with each other in order to better respond to users? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Here are some of our thoughts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u293	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u294	Public service houses – MSAP – are now popular and well known to our fellow citizens; There are more than 1300. You have voted in the finance law to increase the appropriations to develop them by 47%. Their growth will continue; In fact, we will have to keep an eye on the quality of the services offered, and it is in order to examine this aspect in detail that Ms. Jacqueline Gourault and I initiated an audit. You mention the need for proximity – and your question allows me to continue to answer Mr Molac. We must definitely distinguish two pairs. The first is the common-intercommunal binome: it is clear that the XXL intercommunalities have caused the mayors to feel abandoned, abandoned, and thereby created a doubt about the proximity to intercommunality, which is not a territorial community but a public institution. The second is the regional council-departmental council; There, the NOTRE law decided in the vicissitude of jurisdiction. You will soon have to consider the bill to secure the ownership of local public companies – SPL – and mixed economy companies – SEM – that Olivier Dussopt will defend tomorrow in the Senate. It will make it possible to correct a number of inconveniences. On the relationship between these two couples, common and intercommunal on the one hand, department and region on the other, we must be able to make progress. It is for this reason that the idea of a territorial councillor has resurfaced in the context of the great national debate: the idea is to get a little closer to our large regions. I heard parliamentarians start to wonder about the voting method: I'm sorry, but we're not here! We are currently looking for answers to the great need for proximity that has arisen during the great national debate. Neither Mrs. Kuster nor Mrs. de La Raudière are here at this late hour. But I will tell them that if they wish to remove a step in Paris, that they will bring together Mrs Pécresse, Mr Bédier, Mr Devedjian, Mr Ollier, all of whom share the same political sensitivities, and who could also be joined by Mr Wauquiez, president of their party...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u295	It was also your party, not so long ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u296	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ...and let all these people make us a proposal on the step to be removed! Again, I think it is time to make concrete proposals – and less criticism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u297	Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u298	"The switchover to digital technology has accentuated the difficulties of access for the most fragile, the accompaniment is not up to the challenge. "The digital revolution has reached its limits: we no longer have an interlocutor, administrations are dehumanized. These remarks come from contributions to the great national debate; They were extracted thanks in particular to the Great Reading, a project resulting from the hackathon organized at the National Assembly. In the face of the anxiety about digitisation of public services, we need to focus more on the use of digital technology and address its negative externalities. Here are our lines of action. First of all, instead of focusing on the digitization of what is called the front office, i.e. the contact interface with the user, let's move towards the digitization of the backoffice: simplify information systems, streamline administrative tasks, optimize procedures. This will make it possible to free up working time so that the agents can devote themselves more to face-to-face with the users! Then, like the "My Aids" platform developed by state start-ups, digital could be used more as a tool to combat non-use of rights. In the same way that the levy at source makes compulsory contributions automatic, digital could enable access to rights to be automated by paying directly the aid to which each citizen can claim according to his or her situation and background. Finally, we need to consolidate and strengthen our digital inclusion strategy: digital land use planning, Aptic training cheque, MedNum cooperative... In this context, one key point seems to us to be the training of agents in digital mediation. We could involve different types of actors: young people from the universal national service, La Poste agents who travel the territories, or local associations. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Ministers and Secretaries of State, do you intend to incorporate these paths into the government's road map, and according to what timetable?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u299	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u300	The answer to your question is simple: yes, these leads will be integrated into the government roadmap, and right away. We are aware, in fact, that 13 million French people encounter difficulties in accessing digital services: for half of them, they are not used to technology, they do not master it enough to be comfortable with this tool; for the other half, they live in a territory where network throughput does not allow the use of these technologies. The President of the Republic said last July that we should digitize, but also rehumanize. If digital technology is needed today as a particularly efficient and efficient tool to allow access to public services at any time and anywhere in the territory, since technical conditions are in place, we must understand that this does not eliminate the need for mediation, support, both for those who are geographically remote from a connection and for those who do not have control over this technology. We want to rely on public service houses, where facilitators are able to offer mediation. There are many skills that we can use: for example, in many agencies of the departmental branches of public finance, we have accompanied the implementation of the personal digital space of taxpayers when switching to the source levy, including the use of young people on civic service, who have been able to serve as mediators. We must not forget either of these two objectives: all the services of the State must be accessible by digital means, as requested by the President of the Republic; But the human must also be present, no one must be forgotten. Digital technology must not become a new factor of exclusion, but rather a new way of accessing it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You have developed three proposals tonight, but I know you have made others. They will be integrated into the work of the Government and into the road map of all government ministries and agencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u301	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u302	The crisis of the yellow vests was due in part to the feeling of abandoning a rural France, or more broadly to a peripheral France, far from the metropolises, which considers itself forgotten public policies which favour the concentration of the population and which assists, powerless, the remoteness of decision-making centres and public services. This territorial divide is illustrated by the unequal resources of local and regional authorities, and compounded by unequal allocations. This is particularly true of the allocations allocated to the municipalities, and in particular of the flat-rate allocation, calculated on the basis of an amount per capita, all the more so as the population is large. This inequality is experienced as an injustice, and it is only partially compensated by the endowments of solidarity. The same applies to departments and transfer rights, which vary in astronomical proportions – elected from Cantal, I am unfortunately well placed to know it. These resource inequalities should be corrected by equalization, but it no longer always produces the desired effects. If the great debate should be useful, it is that of correcting these inequalities of wealth. Are you ready to seize this opportunity? How can we achieve this essential rebalancing between the richest and the less wealthy communities? The State must also provide differentiated responses, taking into account the diversity of the territories. A scheme such as that of rural revitalization zones contributes to this, but it is no longer sufficient to compensate for the development gap. At the time of making proposals, I believe it is essential to call for the introduction of new, more focused tax and social exemption schemes to more effectively accompany the reception of new populations and new activities in the most disadvantaged territories, in territories far from the main lines of communication and which are struggling to stem demographic erosion. What proposals do you intend to make to meet the expectations of citizens living in the most fragile territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u303	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u304	Member of Parliament, this evening, it's a little bit on the Grand Evening, since together with Minister Jacqueline Gourault, we have just notified the amount of the general operating allocation – DGF – to all the local and regional authorities of France. As this €27 billion envelope is stable, you will be able to repeat in the different territories that you represent that this government does not diminish it. On the other hand, variations exist, which for 2018 are mainly due to changes in the different maps of intercommunalities. This year, the number of these variations, which is less, will be explained by two criteria. Variation in the population, first of all. A municipality that gains inhabitants will have a larger DGF, and it will be the opposite for a municipality that loses it. However, this is not so true, since we have imagined in this Chamber guarantees of exit that reduce the shock – Jean-René Cazeneuve and a few other Members will be able to testify. Secondly, equalization mechanisms, which everyone agrees to in the debates in this Chamber or in the Senate, but which are more difficult to defend when we find ourselves in the general assemblies of mayors in the territories. No one then explains that the lump sum allocation is the subject of a crumbling, which allows to redistribute to the poorest rural communes, with the endowment of rural solidarity – DSR – as to the poorest urban communes, with the endowment of urban solidarity – DSU. [[Smile]] It is therefore curious to look only at the lump sum allocation. Mr. Member, we know each other well, you presided over a general council shortly after my college patent. Because we worked together in the Assembly of the French Departments – ADF – I know how you work. In this FMD case, acknowledge that many of your colleagues are spreading some misconceptions in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u305	That is why the State must intervene!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u306	I therefore take advantage of my two-minute speaking time to restore these truths. Basically, we all assume this equalization. The LR Group, like all the groups here, voted for it. This explains why some endowments have moved. It is not true, however, that the per capita allocation is less in rural than in urban areas. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] If we add the lump sum allocation and equalization, we are well above it. To take the example of Vigean, the municipality of the president of the rural mayors of Cantal, which has 825 inhabitants, its DGF amounts to 290 euros per inhabitant, compared to a national average of 164 euros per inhabitant. The numbers are stubborn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u307	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u308	Fractures, from access to public services, to health, to employment, to justice – the list is long! – are numerous. With each of the reforms, our citizens see public services shut down. They are told that dematerialization is the new solution. It is quick to forget that, since the divide is also digital, some French people cannot have access to it. While, for several months, the French have expressed their dismay at the disappearance of public services, Mr. Minister for Action and Public Accounts, you were presented last week with a report of contributions to the big debate by a private firm, which advocates the massive use of outsourcing of public services, arguing for 25 billion euros of savings. This is tantamount to entrusting the private sector with the services and tasks of the public service. Some might think that this false good idea is the solution to save money, but before limiting and displacing our public services again, I invite you to show boldness and common sense to realize these savings, simply by trusting local elected officials. We both come from a region we know very well, a popular land, which has experienced decades of difficulties, where citizens, hardworking, proud of their work, and of their solidarity express, perhaps more than elsewhere, their refusal to see the public decisions that concern them move away every day from them and be taken from distant, cold, anonymous offices, disconnected from local realities. France needs a new governance, which takes into account the demands and needs of the population, relayed by elected officials on the ground. This means that not everything can be decided in Paris. We need to get back from the base to understand the aspirations of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u309	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u310	Co-construction must be promoted, efficiency must be sought, regions and departments must be built upon, municipalities must be given a new place and the region must be able to intervene fully with full competence in areas where it operates – the economy, employment, transport and high schools. It is not a question of opposing territorial authorities to the state, but of allowing a new and better articulation between the different actors. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So, Minister, what will you do with this report that calls for a new deal, a new deal for outsourcing public services? Would it not be more relevant, as the President of the Hauts-de-France region proposed this weekend, to act another new deal between the State and the local authorities, taking a new stage of decentralization?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u311	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u312	Mr President, I must admit that I find it difficult to keep up with your developments. Recently, you co-signed a bill, registered on March 21, 2018, to reserve the status of the civil service to officials in a regalian capacity. In the explanatory memorandum, you explain the need to withdraw the status of public official and therefore to accept the phenomenon of outsourcing. As the bill has only seven signatories, it is not a text of the whole group. I understand today that just a year later, perhaps influenced by the big debate, you are no longer in favour of outsourcing. You quote the President of the Hauts-de-France region. It happens that like you, I know him well. I recently read a very interesting interview in the Sunday Journal, where he explained that the state needed to focus on its regal functions. In his own community, where I sit, most of them, you know, we outsource certain activities. In your own constituency, the aquatic centre of the urban recreation base of Saint-Quentin, which Xavier Bertrand has successfully set up, is for example outsourced. So we must stop the postures, which seem to me to contradict the public spirit that we share. There have been reports from the Court of Auditors, the National Assembly, the Senate, and a private company, called Webhelp, proposing outsourcing. I have received it, like all the contributions to the great debate. At times, outsourcing is not entirely stupid: you have to know how to do it. I was referring in particular to the recovery of cash from cash payments in public finance networks. It could be entrusted to the buralists or agents of La Poste, who do not seem to me to be the emanations of the wildest capitalism that can exist. On the one hand, La Poste encounters a problem because the number of mails is decreasing; On the other hand, ruralists must consider activities other than the sale of tobacco only. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Patrick Mignola also applauds]] It does not seem to me totally delusional that the place where we sell tax stamps can also be the place where we pay our fines. On the other hand, other areas should not be given to the private sector. I am not in ideology, but in practice, and for efficiency, at the service of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u313	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u314	My question concerns transparency on high pay in the public sector. All parliamentarians and ministers have strong transparency requirements regarding their remuneration and assets. In the private sector, the law imposes on private companies detailed and precise indicators of the highest remuneration. In my view, what we are asking for from the political world and private money, we must also demand from public money. Currently, neither ministries, with their senior officials, nor government agencies, nor independent administrative authorities, nor agencies that make public money have the same transparency requirements. To rebuild a bond of trust with our fellow citizens, it is time to put an end to these decades of opacity. Nor is it acceptable to discover in Le Canard enchainé that the Defender of Rights earns 30,000 euros a month, because he accumulates his 15,000 euros of salary with 15,000 euros of retirement, due to an exceptional derogation from the rules of cumulation of employment and retirement that apply to all other citizens. [[Applause on the benches of MODEM, LaREM, SOC and LT groups]] We inherit this opaque situation, of which no one wants. That is why I simply ask you: are you in favour of a law imposing the same transparency on public institutions and bodies for the most important remunerations?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u315	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u316	Mr President Waserman, I will give some answers to your inquiry on the question of transparency. First of all, even if that was neither your point nor your intention, I mean that these questions should not be dealt with with with populism or demagogy, since it is not in any way a question of giving certain names to popular vindiction. Nor should we fantasize about the level of remuneration of our country's senior officials. In the private sector, the remuneration of managers of companies with more than 50 employees averages €9900 net, which is 50% higher than the €6500 net reported on average for the highest government officials. Similarly, the 1% of the best-paid employees in the private sector – managers, in reality – receive an average gross salary of EUR 17970, twice as many as the 1% of the best-paid civil servants. We know some things. In this way, we can reconstruct, sometimes imperfectly, the remuneration of the highest levels of central government. We know how to make public, as we have done, the remuneration of the presidents of independent administrative authorities. We have the remuneration of directors of public companies as well as public industrial and commercial establishments – EPIC – because the law provides for their publication. We must continue on this path of transparency. However, Minister Gérald Darmanin mentioned it yesterday, in a debate on a slightly different subject, to go further, it is not necessarily necessary to publish a nominative list with the associated remunerations, but to indicate the levels of pay for the most important positions held by officials in our country. We must also work to ensure that the remuneration of those who accept important responsibilities at the head of the independent administrative authorities and who also benefit from other income, including pensions, as you mentioned in your example, can be subject to a crunching. Cumulative situations which may have been denounced must no longer be allowed. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, we must link the issue of transparency with that of ethics. As part of the public service bill that we will introduce to you, together with Gérald Darmanin, in the coming weeks, we will have to work on ethics and its oversight. We are counting on the proposals of the majority to move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u317	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u318	On 16 January 2015 and 7 August 2015, I passed the Law on the Delimitation of Regions and the Law on the New Territorial Organization of the Republic, known as the NOTRe Law. What a terrible mistake! On the pretext of giving our regions a European scale, but also of making savings, we have created monsters. Not everywhere, it is true, because some have been able to manoeuvre. Not once, I say well not once, for twenty-six months, I have not found an actor, whether in the economic, cultural, sporting, health, training, education, to tell me that it is better today. Decisions that took place in three months now require nine months.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u319	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u320	The decision-making centres have moved away for many. As soon as this morning, I met with some Members of Parliament, including Vincent Descoeur, the Regional Federation of Public Works of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, who stressed that these texts had had no beneficial effect. More than two years later, I think it is time for an initial assessment of these new regions. I would like to thank Jean-René Cazeneuve, chairman of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, for agreeing to create a mission on the subject. Of course, it is not a question of going back to cutting, but of correcting what can still be. Will you have an attentive ear, minister? Above all, do not layer the map of state services on these new regions. Stop the massacre! No, big isn't always beautiful. Above all, big is not always synonymous with the best, both in terms of the quality of public services and their cost. As for the NOTRE law, we have created EPCI XXL in some cases. The truth is that today, some EPCIs, grouped against the will of elected officials, operate badly. So, minister, I heard the President of the Republic say that he was ready to review the "irritants of the NOTRE law". Can you give us a timetable and the legislative vehicle? I have a first suggestion of irritating to correct: make optional the transfer of water and sanitation skills to communities of communes. In short, trust elected officials and let communities choose the organization of the service to achieve the statutory rate of return.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u321	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u322	Madam Member, I thank you first of all for this contrition, which you had already expressed in the debate on the finance bill last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u323	Let's not exaggerate, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u324	It is true that a whole generation of local elected officials continue to recover from these laws, which have brutalized many practices, especially in the most rural territories. "Irritants of the NOTRE law": my expression thrives, no doubt because it reflects the right balance. It's not about questioning everything. Some positive developments need to be welcomed, but unfortunately others need to be revisited. With regard to the intercommunal-communal couple, the President of the Republic has recalled this many times during the major debate, and there is obviously a need to maintain flexibility in terms of competences. Olivier Dussopt rightly reminded me that the transfer of powers in the field of water and sanitation had been voted here, at the end of the parliamentary debate, at the initiative of the Government, then represented by Mrs Lebranchu.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u325	It was a last-minute amendment, which we fought!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u326	As such, when decisions are taken in a way that is too authoritarian, it cannot work. There is also a need to work on flexibilities in governance in the intercommunal-communal binome. As I said earlier, the mayors of Brittany were talking this morning about setting up a mandatory conference of mayors in the great intercommunalities. All of this needs to be assessed. With regard to the two-tiered department-region, we find the irritants of pure competence. I was talking about local public companies – SPL – and mixed economy companies – SEM. This question must be answered, it is in the right direction. However, can we claim to have a more important principle of subsidiarity, if local will is in favour of it? I think so. Today, the law prevents it, but opportunities could be offered. Things are already happening in certain regions - Occitanie, Grand-Est or Hauts-de-France. It turns out to be more complicated in others, yours in particular. Since I have been minister in charge of local and regional authorities since last October, I have never been able to meet the president of your regional council – that does not help. Finally, the third way forward – what we are doing in Alsace is a good example – is to provide more local answers, either through skills and institutions or through projects – this was the case recently in Brittany and the Ardennes. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We must come together – Parliament, associations of elected representatives and perhaps even elected in a wider consultation – to change the NOTRE law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u327	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u328	My question is to clarify the intentions of the Government. The principle of equality is a very important constitutional principle. However, the Constitution provides for a right to experiment. In the past, I have argued, through two legislative proposals, in favour of the principle of adapting standards to give the prefect a certain degree of latitude in this matter, depending on the territory. Today, the Government proposes the right to differentiation. Why not? Can you clarify whether differentiation concerns competence or the adaptation of standards? I fear that this right will be deprived of effectiveness by the constitutional jurisprudence, which is very well founded on the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u329	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u330	This is a fundamental question, which looks at two great values of the Republic which, to listen to our fellow citizens and local elected officials, are sometimes in competition: the desire for freedom – "give us peace and let us organize ourselves freely" to be trivial – and the desire for fairness or even equality – why would one territory have more rights than another? This is the crux of the fine debate which must take place in Parliament on the organisation of public authorities. We need to find the right middle. Adaptation is already possible. Many texts provide for specific provisions for overseas communities or Corsica. As far as hexagonal territory is concerned, we still need to move forward. A wider adaptability goes hand in hand with greater deconcentration: the more power one leaves to a representative of the state close to local decision-makers, the more the local intelligence is allowed to express itself – the prefect or the sub-prefect is also within the reach of engulfing, like mayors or regional and departmental councillors. The question of the revision of the Constitution arises, since the current framework is very constrained by the principle of equality that has guided us for a long time. In our country, the state has preceded the nation and our history is marked by this principle. Differentiation allows, on the one hand, the State to divest itself of a competence for the benefit of a community without, however, assigning that competence to the family of communities to which the latter belongs – in short, competence can be conferred on the department of Lozère but not on the department of Eure. Today, it is not possible, it will be tomorrow. On the other hand, differentiation makes it possible to transform experimentation, which is not very successful because of its complexity, into a genuine system of derogations and thus to include transfers of responsibilities in time. It is important to make progress on the constitutional review, but even without it, we can already move forward by generating local intelligence, particularly in connection with the prefects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u331	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u332	I must conclude this debate with the fact that when the public services were shot down, I was the only one to stand up; when France lost 500,000 businesses – which it never recovered – I was the only one to get up; When the fracture between men clearly emerged in our country, I was also the only one to rise. I walked 6000 kilometres while another walked twice around the living room saying, "On the move," and it worked! I have incarnated here the yellow vest movement because this house is called the National Assembly and continues to have a revolutionary character. I described in about ten books what was happening. Everything that could be said was very well said. Proposals were made. I would like to ask the members of the Government present here to transmit to the President of the Republic two suggestions to try to calm this crisis, which I believe is far from over – the President of the Republic himself acknowledged that it has come a long way and that it is not finished – and to send a sign of hope: the recognition of the white vote before the elections for the European elections – that would improve the participation of citizens, they could say what they think of the programmes presented; the repeal of the NOTRE law – Jacques Chirac did it for the first hiring contract, which had also caused a lot of ink to sink. This would be a very encouraging sign for the mayors, the dead-living who the President has just resurrected for some time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u333	Very good proposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u334	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u335	Thank you for your very clear question, honourable Member. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Your hope that the situation will improve allows me to respond to some of your colleagues, who, without daring to do so openly, have, in hollows, denigrated the great national debate and the 1.5 million French who participated in it. In this House where Members represent the nation, it seems to me a shame and strange to make fun of this unprecedented democratic exercise, which has been observed throughout the world and which has made it possible to re-establish a nation and to re-establish a society. With regard to the NOTRE Act, its repeal would create instability. On the other hand, it will have to be reviewed and examined what is problematic – essentially the lack of proximity and clarity. At the beginning of this quinquennium, the majority, in good faith, preferred to allow some time for things to eventually stabilize. Two years later, local elected officials still did not digest the law as drafted. As Mrs Pires Beaune said, we must learn from it and see it again. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you for your question, honourable Member, which allows us to conclude in sympathy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u336	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-03-O1205.u337	Next meeting, this morning, at 9:30 a.m.: Discussion of the bill to restore the purchasing power of the French; Further discussion of the bill to create a register of rare or orphan diseases; Discussion of the proposal for a law to support the operation of departmental fire and rescue services and to enhance the profession of professional and voluntary firefighter; Discussion of the proposed constitutional law to combat over-regulation. The meeting is adjourned.
