ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law on combating waste and the circular economy (No. 2274, 2454).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u2	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u3	The draft law on the fight against waste and the circular economy is the result of two years of work. Many of you have participated, and I thank you for this – but it is not just the parliamentarians who have mobilized: local elected representatives, associations, businesses and citizens have also done so, in more than a hundred meetings, with a single aim of inventing a new production and consumption model in order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves in terms of biodiversity conservation and environmental protection. This ambition is at the heart of Act II of the quinquennium. First of all, I want to thank the two rapporteurs and the rapporteur for her opinion: all three have done a remarkable job. The text is indeed more technical than it appears. Yet you have never hesitated, ladies, to put your hands in the engine too. I want to thank you for that. Secondly, Madam President of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, I would like to welcome your demand for coherence in the service of a political fight for ecology, which I know is dear to you. I will also have a word for the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, who has given us a great deal of help when it comes to this text for an opinion. Thanks also to the teams of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition and to my firm for their extraordinary work – let us dare to say the word.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u4	Congratulations to them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u5	Thank you, of course, to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, Elizabeth Borne, for her total confidence and unmistakable support. I also have a thought for Nicolas Hulot, who started this project by visiting me on the subject, as well as for François de Rugy, who accompanied this work in the long run. For the time being, the bill has 106 clauses. One hundred and six! This is evidence of the investment of the two Houses of Parliament in a subject that affects all French people in their daily lives, through their garbage, the objects they surround themselves, their living environment, the quality of what they eat, the way they buy, consume, repair, reuse, and finally, separate themselves from all these products! What is the ambition of this text? It is a matter of making the transition between two worlds, from that of the all-disposable, which still characterizes our society, to that of the all-reusable. That is why the bill combines ecology of everyday life and ecology of tomorrow. It includes very concrete measures, which will have an immediate impact on the daily life of each Frenchman, as well as objectives, accompanied by means and monitoring tools, for the next five, ten, fifteen, or even twenty years, with a view to changing our production and consumption patterns in a sustainable manner. It's a bit of a bit of a text and at the same time at the heart of the engine. The observation, no need to dwell on it as it has become evident: the climate emergency is proven and the citizen's anxiety is growing. The concrete question to which we must answer is that of the method: how should the transition to a society of all reusables be made? I do not believe in a violent revolution, imposed from above, nor in the false solutions that would consist of looking back and pretending that it was better before. I believe in four strong ideas, which are the pillars of the bill: accountability, capacity-building, accountability and collaboration. Responsibility is to create economic value in a way that also responds to current challenges and the needs of society. The development of the capacity of the actors is to create a society in which everyone has the power to do. Accountability is accountability, monitoring commitments, instilling confidence in the system; In order to do so, information must be available in full transparency to both citizens and the public authorities. Collaboration is working and transforming together, beyond clans, chapels, parties and postures. I believe in the construction of a collective project. This bill is also a society bill, which we must carry out together, not against each other – our work in committee has demonstrated this, since amendments from all political groups have been passed. To do this, let's take a step back. Let us look at anthropologists, whose mission is to study human groups. I'm used to quoting Marcel Mauss – be assured, I'm not going to do a master class, but according to him, it's by looking at the garbage of a society that we get to know it. I will also quote Mary Douglas: for her, an individual or a human group affirms her own identity as much by what he integrates as by what he rejects. So what is our own identity? Wouldn't it be related to waste? For my part, I believe it. Let's look at the numbers. In Europe, in 2016, municipalities took over 392 million tonnes of waste. If we continue on the same path, they are expected to have to manage 440 million tonnes in 2030 and 490 million in 2050. In France, in 2015, local authorities collected 568 kilograms of waste per capita, of which 437 kilograms were produced by households alone. Taking the example of plastic in 1950, world production was 1.5 million tonnes, in 2015, 322 million. In France, the Agence de l'Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l'Energie – ADEME – estimates that the production of plastic waste amounts to 4.5 million tonnes per year. You'll agree, these numbers are turning around. What general conclusion can be drawn from this? Nearly 30 years after the last major waste law, they continue to be disposed of massively in saturated landfills or discharged into the wild in the form of wild deposits. Worse, they are sometimes sent away, to other parts of the world, to developing countries, as if they could tolerate for a long time to serve as an outlet for our own excesses. In this connection, I would like to point out that France was very firm in imposing a fine of EUR 192000 last month on a company which had illegally sent plastic waste to Malaysia. And that's just a start. The French and nature are asking us to change our century: let's do it! Decoupling economic growth and the exploitation of natural resources! In concrete terms, to live up to the twenty-first century, we must break with the voracious and unjust capitalist system that is ours. The programme is clear: if the twentieth century has been that of labour productivity growth, the twenty-first century will have to be that of resource productivity. This is the subject of the so-called circular economy. It's not a new, fashionable word. Nor is it an attempt to disguise the 20th century economy as an economy of the 21st century. It is a project of society whose aim is to restore meaning to the economy. We do not have to choose between the two terms of a mortiferous alternative, growth or decay. We have to build together a third path, which aims at the continuous improvement of the well-being of the people within the physical limits of the planet. From this perspective, our objectives are clear: we must tackle all forms of waste, at all levels – within families, in businesses, in administrations. That is why we designed this bill as an action plan. The 106 articles in the text will give concrete tools to produce and consume otherwise, to trigger the change of century. So what are the major advances in the bill? The first is the fight against waste. The figures are eloquent – I do not want to drown you under, but it is important to mention a few. Every year in our country, the equivalent of €630 million in products are destroyed, including €180 million in hygiene and beauty products, €49 million in textiles and footwear and €10 million in household appliances. In France, today, we destroy five times more than we give. I give you a specific example: 1.7 million French women do not have the means to buy sanitary protections every month, while the hygiene and beauty sector has one of the worst ratios between destruction or recycling and donation: 91% of products are destroyed or recycled, only 9% given. Another example, as we approach the end-of-year celebrations: can we accept that in our country 40 million toys are thrown away every year?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u6	This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u7	In practice, one throws a toy every second in France – and 23% of the total are automatically destroyed. That's the reality! That is why I wanted us to include in the text the ban on the destruction of unsold non-food products. It is a first in the world, and we can be proud of it. This measure is based on a previous provision – I welcome Mr Garot in this capacity. By including in clause 5 of the bill that producers, importers and distributors are required to re-use, reuse or recycle their unsold goods, we note the end of these practices. We go even further, establishing that recycling of a number of essential hygiene products will be prohibited by 1 January 2022. This strong measure, welcomed by the French as soon as the text was examined in the Senate, is one of the "signatures" of this text. Another major step forward is the recasting of the pact of sectors with extended responsibility of producers, with a view to equipping France with an industry of the 21st century that respects the environment. The principle of extended producer responsibility – REP – entered French law in 1975. In practice, it took shape in 1992 with the creation of the first line of REP, which concerned household packaging. Since then, thirteen other courses have been created. This system has proven its worth. It has been copied by other European countries. Its primary purpose was to enable companies to better manage the end of their products, in particular by creating recycling channels. Traditionally, the REP lines, based on the polluter-pays principle, were designed to manage downstream, end-of-life products, and in particular their recycling. Through this bill, we hope that these sectors will also take into account upstream, prevention, i.e., they will incorporate reflection and concrete actions on how products are manufactured, and they will extend the scope of possibilities downstream, by encouraging re-employment. First, upstream is essential, as the design of a product determines its end of life, defining its potential for reuse or recycling. The polluter pays sector must set eco-design targets for companies in order to promote re-use, reuse, repair and, as a last resort, product recycling. I would also like to welcome the initiative of the rapporteur for opinion Graziella Melchior, who, in order to encourage repair, proposes a six-month extension of the guarantee for goods repaired under the legal guarantee of conformity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u8	[[Smile]] That's audacity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u9	That's a very good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u10	The text therefore proposes that the way in which the channels are managed should be put to a standstill. As new sectors were created, regulations were piled up. The specifications of eco-organisms have become thicker and more and more complicated. Manufacturers may feel that their responsibility has been diluted, that it is only to contribute to an eco-organism that manages the end of their products on their behalf, in fact with more or less efficiency, and sometimes less than more. In this context, being able to act directly on the results, focusing on upstream, eco-design, in particular through the possibility of greatly varying eco-contributions, is precisely a way of reconsidering the responsibility of producers in the full life cycle of their products. After the uphill, let me tell you about the downhill. The bottom line is re-use and re-use, which we want to promote in all sectors where they are possible. Re-employment can be done by traditional economic actors, but also, for example, by those involved in the social and solidarity economy, and even by local associations. This is why considerable work has been done in committee, in conjunction with all the actors, to create a re-employment fund. I would like to pay tribute here to the work done by the rapporteur, Stephanie Kerbarh, who will table an amendment providing, in the sectors concerned, for allocating at least 5% of the revenue to the structuring of sustainable re-employment schemes. This is local employment for our territories; It is the promise of both purchasing power gains, environmental gains and broader gains in meaning for our economy. Our will is therefore to leverage to structure new industrial sectors in France. Recycling and re-employing represents a potential of 300,000 non-relocating jobs across the territory. In order to achieve this ambition, given the creation of new channels and the setting of wider objectives, it will of course be necessary to strengthen the means of data collection and supervision of the channels: again, control and responsibility are at the heart of this text. These tasks are entrusted to ADEME. The Commission will therefore be provided with new financial resources, as provided for in European law, as well as new human resources, which are essential for the monitoring of the sectors. That is the Government's will to move in that direction. The third major step forward in this bill is to make transparency effective, making it a reality, in order to improve and encourage accountability. As you know, opacity is one of the characteristics of the French waste management system. This opacity, as a result of the complexity of the system, sometimes generates – I say "sometimes" – dysfunctions that undermine the environmental performance of the whole and allow certain actors to continue doing their work in their corner, a job that they satisfy themselves, but that does not generate enough gains in purchasing power or environmental gains. That is why we have put the principle of transparency at the heart of this text. The challenge is to empower the French to take action for this transition without penalising them, without opposing the end of the world and the end of the month. I am convinced that under these conditions they will choose the environment. We offer them this choice by making transparent the information to which they are entitled, about the environmental impact and repairability of the products, or about the sorting gesture to be made. Tomorrow, they will be able to consume knowingly, as they ask us – this is one of the ups and downs of the great national debate. Do the French want products designed to last, do they want recyclable products, do they want products that will no longer be overpacked? It's up to them to choose; They should guide the decisions of the market marketers, with the information provided rigorously and transparently. For companies, this requirement of transparency requires the transmission of information, for example by building a repair index, or informing the consumer about spare parts, the legal guarantee of compliance, the length of time software updates are available and also soon the sustainability of products, as proposed by rapporteur Véronique Riotton. For public authorities and in particular for the State, transparency requires first of all the exemplaryness of public order, but also the facilitation of a certain method of implementing medium- and long-term objectives. We need to move away from the stage where we set ourselves big goals at a very long time. Of course, they are important; But what is fundamental is to set up meeting points, stage points, to know if we are getting closer to it, if we are on the right path. This requires consultation with stakeholders and monitoring governance of the objectives. This is the case for all the programmatic objectives that are set at the beginning of the bill, in the areas of plastic recycling, reduction of single-use plastics, reduction of landfilling, development of packaging reuse, and in many other areas. The fourth major step in this bill is to empower communities to strengthen and strengthen the public waste management system. The circular economy is at the local level, it emerges at this level. Communities therefore have a pivotal role to play in deploying it within the territories and in the daily lives of the French. [["Not at all! » and applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We must give them new means and therefore new powers. By expanding the range of extended producer liability channels, we are transferring nearly EUR 500 million per year from companies to communities. Ladies and gentlemen, have you often had the opportunity in this House to vote on texts that give the local authorities 500 million euros of room for manoeuvre? At the same time, this bill offers the territories enormous opportunities for developing local employment: retraining, the social and solidarity economy, resourcing, small repairers... To stick to recycling alone, one ton of recycled waste creates ten times more jobs than one ton of buried waste. By introducing the free take-over of building waste from waste dumps, we are tackling the issue of wild deposits, which are one of the main causes of this waste. We are providing solutions to a problem that poisons the lives of the French, a concrete response to the concern, worry, anguish of our local elected officials, in the fight against these deposits. We all remember the tragic death of Jean-Mathieu Michel, Mayor of Signes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u11	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u12	Thanks in particular to the measures adopted by senators, the bill will strengthen the powers of mayors, giving them the means to punish those who continue to dump their waste into nature. Finally, we want tools to move towards a re-employment and post-plastic society. It is not enough to say this: we must also give ourselves the means to do so. A tool is not an end, but a means, a concrete instrument. That is why I would like to say a word about re-employment and recycling, a subject on which the debates have been long, and many of the incomprehensions and even manipulations and attacks of interest groups. As the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister have said, as I have also said, the establishment of a directive will not be possible without the local elected representatives and their representatives: this is the subject of ongoing consultation. An amendment will be tabled during the debate and, without prejudging its final drafting, we already know the principles that will govern it. The first is to share our country's target: 77% of bottles recycled in 2025, then 90% in 2029. Beyond the European obligation, this objective constitutes an ecological and environmental imperative. It is then, as has always been planned, to take note of what is already practiced in the territories, allowing the simplification of the sorting rules to continue until its completion in 2022. The aim is also to take into account the performance differentials between the communities in charge of sorting, in order to adapt the implementation of the future scheme to the realities of the territories. Finally, it is necessary to define how local authorities and manufacturers will jointly organise the establishment of such a mechanism. But beyond the instrument, of which I have no doubt that it will occupy part of our debates, it is the place of plastic in our society that we are talking about. That is why I would like to see this text examined as an opportunity to give us very clear objectives for reducing the placing on the market of plastics, in particular disposable plastics, which are intended to be disposed of immediately after use. We need not only ambitious goals, but a method to achieve them. Since the beginning of our work, ladies and gentlemen, we have been under the demanding eyes of the French. We are also, let us say clearly, scrutinized by certain interest groups, by lobbies which have no other purpose than to promote the interests they represent, and for this reason to weaken the text; These interests, whether economic or not, are often contrary to the requirement to change in depth current practices. This is not the fight of good against evil, but simply that of two worlds, of two epochs – the twentieth century and the twenty-first century. Let the message be clear and heard by all: we will continue to move forward, we will not let go. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As you will understand, the objective of this bill is that we enter the "zero waste" era as soon as possible. We will transform our production and consumption patterns by means of historical advances by which France will again show the way, including the ban on disposable plastics or the destruction of new unsold products. We are going to speed up the transition from a fully-disposable society to a fully-reusable one. So let us not be afraid of our ambitions and, as we have begun to do, let us build together France of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u13	Mrs Véronique Riotton, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u14	First of all, I would like to thank all the teams that have allowed for quality collective work – I am thinking here of Nicolas Dufrerene and my collaborator Capucine Le Tarnec, but also the teams of the minister's office, the administrators, the services of the state. I would also like to thank my fellow rapporteurs, Stephanie Kerbarh and Graziella Melchior. The draft law on the fight against waste and the circular economy responds to a strong expectation from our fellow citizens, who are increasingly sensitive to environmental issues. Aware that the resources of our planet are being depleted as a result of mass production and overconsumption, the French are increasingly accepting the overabundance of unrecycled waste that pollutes our soil, our oceans, our landscapes, our health. The contributions of the great national debate have highlighted the collective refusal to continue in this direction, since the problem of waste has been raised by many citizens who are concerned about the future of the planet. However, while consciousness is awakening, not everyone has yet changed in the direction of sustainable development, and we are still regularly seeing behaviour that is, in the medium term, mortifying for the environment. The Government and our majority did not wait until it was too late to address the problem and act in practice. As of April 23, 2018, the Prime Minister presented the fifty measures of the road map for the circular economy, which is the basis for the bill that we will be considering. Considered the great ecological text of the quinquennium, it is the result of two years of work and consultation. We must now face the challenge of adopting a text that meets the challenge. We need to take concrete and ambitious measures to combat overproduction, to limit pollution caused by overabundance of waste, to combat planned obsolescence and to encourage eco-design. I think we all share the goal of changing our model of society to succeed in our ecological transition. That is why we have sought to empower each and every actor, so that this project of a fairer society, more respectful of the environment, will succeed through collective effort. My conviction is strong: I am firmly convinced that this bill will allow everyone to change the actions of their daily lives in order to transform our consumption and production model. During his time in the Senate and here in committee, this text was enriched. Deficiencies have been filled, progress has been secured, points that were not included in the added text, which has led to a lot of work. I would like to pay tribute here to the work of all the groups that have made it possible to move this bill forward. The main objective of Titles I and II, of which I am the rapporteur, is to prevent the formation of waste by acting on the behaviour of all actors. Within Title I there are several strategic objectives. They set a course for the next few years to reduce waste at the source and gradually eliminate those that pose the most problems, because they are not recyclable or dangerous to health.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u15	As such, in accordance with the presidential promise, we wish to succeed in recycling all plastics by 2025. France also sets itself a goal of re-use and reuse of household waste, as well as a goal of reducing food waste. We have the ambition to get out completely of the single-use plastic packaging market by 2040. We are also planning to strengthen the obligation to sort "five flows", which are still poorly met, by means of an amendment which aims to require that this obligation be justified before the waste is excavated. Title I concerns consumer information, which is an essential part of the ecological transition. This includes several measures that tend to better inform the public about the environmental characteristics of the products. This information must be available at the time of purchase to guide your choice. To combat programmed obsolescence, an index of the repairability of electrical and electronic equipment will also be indicated at the time of purchase. This measure, which represents a major step forward, is an essential first step in communicating an objective indicator that can guide choices. Nevertheless, the repairability index is not sufficient because some products are designed to be very robust and undismountable. These products would therefore receive a lower rating than other less sustainable ones, which is contrary to our goal of promoting sustainability as well as repairability. For this reason, the repairability index will be integrated into a sustainability index by 2024, thanks to new criteria such as robustness or reliability, after work on definition and development similar to those carried out for 18 months to establish the repairability index. Today we send a strong signal to the industrialists: those who make the bet on ecodesign through quality, sustainability and repairability will be the winners. It is this model that will have to be followed in order to cope with the structural changes we are moving towards. In 2017, 45% of French people whose appliances failed chose to replace it rather than have it repaired, due in part to high repair costs or lack of information on how to repair or have it repaired. This is not acceptable, in a context where the scarcity of natural resources requires an end to over-consumption. The measures in Title I are therefore aimed at extending the life cycle of products, raising awareness of eco-design among market participants, while encouraging consumers to favour repair and choose sustainable products. These provisions should limit the consequences of consumption for the environment while having a positive effect on the purchasing power of the French. As the title indicates, we have made the fight against waste a symbol of this bill. Moreover, one of the flagship measures in this text, designed to combat overproduction, is a global first: the prohibition of the elimination of unsold goods. Each year around 630 million euros of new and unsold non-food products are destroyed. This situation is intolerable. Hygiene products are destroyed for no less than 185 million euros each year, while about 3 million French people lack these basic necessities. At the same time, one of the most greenhouse gas-emitting sectors, textiles, destroys between 10,000 and 20,000 tonnes of products each year. It is a real ecological and social contradiction. This unprecedented measure is intended to encourage producers to limit overproduction as they will no longer be able to eliminate their unsold products as easily as they are today. From now on, each market issuer will be required to reuse, reuse or recycle its unsold products. In particular, we would like to encourage donations to associations fighting against insecurity. We have also planned to give a legal framework to certain virtuous behaviors already rooted in the daily life of the French in order to encourage them. I am, of course, thinking about bulk sales. The sales of this growing practice increased from 100 million euros to 850 million euros between 2013 and 2018. We wish to encourage it, by providing legal certainty to the actors. We will allow the consumer to be served in reusable containers. The measures proposed by Graziella Melchior to strengthen the fight against food waste also seem to us to be particularly useful. Article 6 of the draft law also provides for a complete renovation of the process of diagnosis of the building during significant destruction or rehabilitation operations in order to improve the efficiency of the sorting of the building's waste, in particular with a view to its re-use. We have rewritten and adopted the articles on public procurement to be operational as soon as the text is promulgated, in order to send a strong signal to the local authorities and to encourage them to favour public procurement with a limited effect on the environment. Public procurement is indeed an important lever since it accounts for 10% of France's GDP. Our fellow citizens expect us to have a great law, a historic law that accompanies everyone in the adoption of new behaviors, a law that does not stifle the economy but instead generates sources of employment through new consumption patterns, which favours the development of industry in France because of a more virtuous design and production of products. In this area, France will be a pioneer and will benefit fully from this new economy with high added value, which will ultimately improve the quality of life of our citizens and make our companies a champion of new technologies for sustainable development. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We have an ardent obligation to write a great law that will be a positive part of our society and will be a lasting sign of history. I am counting on you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u16	Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u17	The circular economy summarizes much of the issues facing our societies. On the one hand, our productive forces have never been as powerful as they are today. We can make all kinds of products in very large quantities, transport them around the world, from their place of production to their place of consumption. Prices of material goods have declined steadily, making them widely available. On the other hand, the waste is piled up. We no longer have two collections of clothing a year but new products that are constantly coming to the market. The planned obsolescence forces us to replace products that could still work. We have lost the habit of repairing our objects, preferring to throw them away when they no longer work, to buy new ones. Single-use plastics symbolize our way of life. They are available in as many objects as we dispose of as soon as they are finished – lighters, cups... – without worrying about their future. "Industrial civilization, by removing natural beauty, covering it over long spaces by industrial waste creates and generates artificial needs. It means that poverty can no longer be lived and sustained. We would believe this phrase thought for our time. It was written by Albert Camus in 1951. He was, like all the great intellectuals, a visionary. Yet I love the industry, which has played an undeniable role in the emancipation of women. But let's go back to us. Promoting the circular economy is not simply a management of the waste we produce. It is not just a question of eliminating or recycling waste, but of designing ways of producing and consuming the resources available, of refusing to give in to the ease of extracting fossil materials that have taken millions of years to form to produce objects that we will use only once, for a few seconds, before burying them for hundreds of years without worrying about the consequences for the quality of our soils and ecosystems, and for the health of our children. In this area, we are now at a turning point, as evidenced by the many contributions made by our fellow citizens to the great national debate on recycling and waste prevention. The subject goes beyond the small gestures of everyday life. Indeed, the circular economy requires not only to reflect on the evolution of our consumption patterns, but also, as our fellow citizens remind us, on the transformation of production patterns. That is the purpose of Titles III and IV of the bill, for which I am the rapporteur. They complement Titles 1 and II on consumer information and the fight against waste, which Véronique Riotton has just presented. The core of Titles III and IV is the mechanisms of extended producer responsibility, which illustrates the type of innovation that can transform our way of production. The aim is to place the responsibility for the management of waste from their products directly on producers and distributors. In other words, it is up to the person who introduces products into trade to ensure that they will be collected and valued when they are no longer used. Closing the loop of the circular economy means anticipating, during production, the end of life of the products. This bill wants to realize this ambition in many ways. It is planned to create new channels to manage cigarette butts, wipes, toys, gardening and DIY items or sports items. Following our discussions in committee, the building's products and waste were added to the list. This new sector will have to ensure the traceability of materials and a stronger meshing of collection points. In addition, the bill enhances the eco-modulation mechanism. Producers will receive a bonus if they take into account the end-of-life of their products as soon as they are designed and will have a malus otherwise. It also plans to renovate the governance of eco-organizations. We have worked hard in committee and have taken steps to ensure that each eco-organisation has a stakeholder committee that includes representatives of local authorities, associations and waste operators. The Committee will make public opinions in a number of areas and may receive information. This will enable producers to integrate the need to anticipate the collection and treatment of the waste they generate. In addition, eco-organisms will have to have two funds, where this is relevant to the sector: one to finance the repair of products, the other to subsidise the structures of the social and solidarity economy which work for the reuse and reuse of objects. This particularly virtuous mechanism will make it possible to finance insertion jobs and prevent waste generation. As a result of committee work, the bill resulting from the work of the Senate has been enriched. This is reflected in the 355 amendments we have adopted. You will understand that I only expose the principals of these developments. First of all, our work has been marked by the concern for transparency and traceability. We have adopted many amendments that reinforce public information and enable the fate of waste to be monitored throughout their lives. This will be the case, in particular, for eco-organizations. All information concerning the marketing and recycling, reuse, reuse or incorporation of recycled material will be made available online. The same will apply to the list of all collection points and the contact details of repairers and re-employment centres. A second area of particular concern to me is the preservation of public health and the environment. The Commission has thus strengthened the control of the application of sludge so that the existing health standards can be re-evaluated very quickly. It also provided for third-party controls for the removal of waste status. This control will be mandatory for hazardous waste, excavated land and sediment. Finally, it has severely limited the possibilities of using mineral inks on packaging as they disrupt sorting and endanger the health of consumers. I will not dwell on the limitation of the mecano-biological trilogy, which goes in the same direction. Thirdly, we have strengthened waste sorting obligations. When it comes to sorting by businesses and communities, we have increased the penalties for non-compliance with the "five flows" sorting. On the other hand, individuals and professionals, who produce more than five tons of biowaste per year, will have to sort them at source. The date of implementation of this obligation has been extended to 31 December 2023. The deposit is also a way to better sort our waste, by insulating plastic bottles and drinking cans, which promotes their recycling. In the present case, the Commission considered that further work should be carried out. This work has been carried out by the Government, in collaboration with local and regional authorities, which is expected to propose a new mechanism in public session. Finally, we wanted to reduce the production of waste at source by means of targeted prohibitions, where substitutes for certain products exist or where their use is not indispensable. I will mention here the ban on serving meals in single-use containers, the ban on packaging fruits and vegetables in plastic or the ban on plastic confetti, dear to our president Barbara Pompili.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u18	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u19	The committee also secured the bill, both from the constitutional point of view and from the point of view of European Union law. This security concerned, in particular, the fund for the re-employment of solidarity or the abolition of the extended liability sector of the producer, which would have included all non-REP products. Similarly, we have adopted several amendments aimed at strengthening the fight against wild deposits while respecting the constitutional framework. The Commission has worked both positively and constructively; This is reflected in the fact that we have adopted forty amendments proposed by members of the opposition. In addition, I had asked for certain amendments to be withdrawn with a view to improving their drafting before the public sitting. We will have an opportunity to discuss these amendments that have been reworked in the coming days and I hope they will be adopted. I hope that our positive attitude will continue in a public meeting. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the fight against waste and the circular economy will not solve all the problems. But I think we can, thanks to him, contribute to the great step that our societies are taking in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u20	Mrs Graziella Melchior, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u21	Producing more to consume more: this is the principle on which our economic model has developed for almost half a century. This maxim now shows its limits in the face of the ecological emergency. The new generations, deeply sensitive to the future of the planet, are mobilizing and calling on us to review our production and consumption patterns. Many economic actors are becoming aware of these growing challenges and are committed to the transition of production models. But there is still a long way to go and the challenges are considerable. Our responsibility as legislator is important: we must provide new solutions that meet the expectations of citizens, and accompany economic actors in order to emerge from a purely productivist model in order to move towards a circular economy. That is what this bill is all about today. The Committee on Economic Affairs has received an opinion on the bill as a whole. As draftsman of the opinion, I have worked in the constant interest of maintaining the balance between environmental issues on the one hand and economic issues on the other. These two dimensions do not clash. On the contrary, I believe that they are complementary, because the transition to a circular economy will not be against, but with companies. The law must accompany existing initiatives and encourage actors to become increasingly involved in the transition from our economic model. But it must also allow economic actors time to adapt and not impose constraints that would prove to be counterproductive. The Committee on Economic Affairs has been able to enrich the text. Thirty-eight of the amendments it has proposed have been adopted in the Committee on Sustainable Development, and I would like to pay tribute here to the work done by the rapporteurs, Véronique Riotton and Stéphanie Kerbarh, with whom I had great pleasure in working. Our exchanges have been fruitful and have enabled us to reach common solutions in many cases. Title I of the bill contains many measures to meet society's growing aspirations for sustainable consumption. We draw from this one of the lessons of the great national debate: by enlightening it on the environmental impact of its purchases, we give the consumer the ability to change his habits and act on his scale for the future of our planet. We also encourage producers to change their processes and produce products that are more easily repairable and durable, in order to get out of a fully-disposable society. The expectations of our fellow citizens are strong regarding the issue of programmed obsolescence, and in particular software obsolescence; We will come back to that when the amendments are discussed. Title II of the bill provides for measures to combat waste – waste that refers to the fact that we are over-producing, over-consuming and throwing away collectively in a massive manner. This phenomenon, which contributes to the ecological crisis, represents a real economic aberration for both businesses and households. Honourable senators have made major advances in the fight against food waste, which I welcome, because I care about the subject. We have completed these measures during the debates in committee. Finally, Title III of the text addresses the issue of extended producer responsibility, the REP. The bill proposes to expand the scope of some existing PNRs and extend this principle to new sectors, which would improve waste management and stimulate the industrial sector and innovation by encouraging the creation of more virtuous materials. However, in order to ensure that PNRs are effective, eco-organisms must operate in the most transparent manner possible; The Committee on Economic Affairs has tabled several amendments to this effect. The text also plans to change the ENP cursor in order to take the issue of waste into account as a whole. Indeed, and this is one of my deep convictions, the best waste is still the waste we do not produce. The bans on single-use packaging appear to me to be particularly crucial. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As legislators, we need to give the keys that will allow the country to break out of a linear model that has shown its limits and move towards a more meaningful economy. I recall here the remarks made by the President of the Republic on 6 May: the objective is "to change our way of producing, to organize us, and global warming, like biodiversity, requires a thorough review of the models we were used to, and thus to thoroughly review, as citizens, as companies, as governments, many of the habits we had taken".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u22	The Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u23	Fighting waste, promoting the circular economy: this is what we are going to do in the next few days. The stakes are high because it is a matter of making the transition to a new approach to the economy. We must be clear, our model is no longer sustainable. When one sees the constitution of a plastic continent, when one knows the volume of goods in good condition that are thrown away or abandoned, when one measures the means devoted to treating the waste, one has the feeling of a huge waste. This waste is, it must be said, the result of a mode of consumption which we must change profoundly. The reign of hyper-consumption and all-disposal has shown its many limitations: the depletion of non-renewable resources, greenhouse gas emissions linked to energy consumption, the relocation of activities and the associated social consequences, and finally the generation of waste that we need to sort, collect, manage and process. This model, or rather this anti-model, now seems breathless. To begin the transition, there is no one-size-fits-all solution. We need to rely on complementary approaches: to increase product life, to focus on sustainable production and consumption, to avoid waste... This issue is both environmental, social and economic. It involves the promotion of new economic models and the creation of jobs in new jobs. Now we need to act on production, drive waste away and make waste a new resource. The challenge is major, as our country produces more than 320 million tons of waste per year. For this reason, the reduction at source is ranked first in the hierarchy of waste management methods. We must give real impetus to this approach, which must be as general as possible. In order to do so, we must limit the use of certain packagings or products which may be considered unnecessary and prohibit the use of materials which are known to be impossible to recycle. However, to change the model, everyone must be involved – producers as well as consumers. In this regard, there is an awareness of the issues at stake, and that is a welcome development. Environmental and social concerns are increasingly present among consumers, who are also citizens; They are also, in certain forms, among producers, for which waste prevention also helps to control costs. But paradigm change is not simple and, to achieve this, information is an essential tool. Of course, I am thinking of informing the consumer about the environmental quality of the products, but also about their service life, their repairability or the availability of spare parts. It makes it possible to make a choice with full responsibility and is a powerful tool to combat waste. The change of model also requires the empowerment of producers: the creation of new channels of extended producer responsibility and the modulation of eco-contributions must contribute to this. I would particularly like to welcome the creation of a REP sector for construction, since waste in this sector alone accounts for almost three quarters of the waste produced in France. Their prevention, sorting and valuing are therefore essential if we are to move towards a truly circular economy. Finally, in order to combat waste and waste, we must also encourage activities that contribute to giving a second life to everyday consumer products. It is far too common for people to throw away their property and buy others instead of repairing them. We throw too much, whether because of fashion, because of the difficulty in getting a product repaired or because of the cost of this repair – or because of the habit, now well anchored, of buying a new property without wondering what we already have. We also know the scandalous practice of destroying the unsold. With this bill, we want to reverse the trend. Reparation and re-employment activities are a key environmental issue, of course, but also from a social and economic point of view, as they represent many local, permanent and non-relocable jobs, particularly in the social and solidarity economy. When we know that the development of activities for the repair of used products and the reuse or recycling of waste generates twenty-five times more jobs than the landfilling of such waste, we understand the opportunity that is before us. We must seize it, and that is one of the objectives of the bill. I'm going to the sorting. It must, in my view, only intervene in the penultimate last resort, because we cannot forget that it is energy-intensive and, therefore, not without effect on the environment. The bill provided for the introduction of a deposit system for re-use or recycling of products used by households. Senators have assigned him an exclusive objective of re-employment. However, these two approaches do not seem to me to be exclusive to each other and must be able to be reconciled. Our discussions on this subject will undoubtedly be nourished. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We look forward to the draft law on the fight against waste and the circular economy. Our discussions in committee were rich, thanks to the involvement of the Secretary of State, our two rapporteurs, Véronique Riotton and Stephanie Kerbarh, as well as the rapporteur for opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Graziella Melchior. I also thank all the employees and administrators who have contributed to this work and I am confident that we will find the same wealth in the debates in the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u24	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting today to consider the bill on the fight against waste and the circular economy. The title of this text, which is presented to us as the alpha and omega of an ecological policy to lead our country towards a profound transformation through the circular economy, seems to us somewhat usurped. With a multitude of small measures lacking overall coherence, it is more like a large waste law, albeit desirable and welcome, than a transitional law of our economy; In this regard, he is far removed from the Government's recommendations. But it is now clear to many of us that reducing our carbon footprint and more virtuous consumption must be an integral part of our daily lives. Therefore, while this bill, while less ambitious than expected, can speed up waste reduction and promote better reprocessing, we can only support it. And indeed, the three main headings of the text – consumer information, the strategic objectives of waste management and prevention and producer responsibility – go in this direction. Be sure, Madam Secretary of State, that we are prepared to commit ourselves to greater sobriety in the consumption of materials, to promote re-use and to support the circular economy. However, we should not give in to simplistic solutions, which are too far from reality and whose implementation raises more questions than it provides answers. In particular, this is the case with your draft recycling policy, which, Madam Secretary of State, you symbolize this text. Be sure that, like many of our fellow citizens who are interested in selective sorting, I make a good difference between re-use container delivery, which results in a reduction in production, and the delivery of recyclable containers, such as plastic bottles. One of the arguments against the introduction of the recycling scheme is the lack of consultation and impact assessment. It should be noted that, to date, the ADEME, which is institutionally responsible for the evaluation of such arrangements, is unable to give its opinion. What is the absolute need to achieve the European target of 90% recycled bottles by 2025, when we know that current household collection rates are good, on average 70%, and are progressing steadily? Moreover, the development of incentive pricing, a virtuous principle par excellence, gives excellent results at the level of collection. If efforts are to be made, it is on the out-of-home collection, of which you are not talking, which accounts for 30% of plastic bottles. The directive is, moreover, bad news for the consumer. Tomorrow, his bottle will be more expensive about 15 cents and he will have to store it and return it to the store. How will the collection points be organised, especially in rural areas? Madam Secretary of State, you are using the support of public opinion to defend the recycling policy: it is enough to explain it to people to change their minds. The directive also runs counter to the collection models implemented by the communities, which, I would remind you, have invested heavily in recent years. The adoption of the recycling directive would therefore ignore these financial commitments, many of which are currently suspended. A final argument – if one were to be retained, that would be this: the deposit is an environmental nonsense, since it leads to greening the image of the plastic instead of reducing its production and risks maintaining or even increasing the consumption of single-use plastic bottles. When a container is manufactured with 30% recycled plastic, it took 70% new plastic. It's a vicious circle. All countries that have adopted such a system, starting with Germany, are now seeing the explosion of single-use plastic. We therefore offer you a set-up for re-use. The Republican Group has tabled an amendment to this effect and we would not understand that you do not support this initiative. The implementation of this re-use directive is all the more justified since it would not only ensure that waste is removed from the collection circuits for recycling, but also significantly reduce plastic production. So it is a virtuous proposal that we make to you, Madam Secretary of State. [[Smile]] We hope that the nature of our work at the sitting will be more constructive than during the examination of the text in committee: on several occasions you have considered our amendments to be appropriate, but instead of voting on them, you have preferred to reject them before taking them back to your own account. In parliamentary matters, you do apply the principles of recycling and short circuit! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Sophie Auconie also applauds]] In conclusion, I would like to reaffirm the need for us to go at all disposable to the benefit of the whole repairable, leaving obviously time for companies to adapt. There was a time not so far away where the product life was much longer. This situation is all the more paradoxical since technological advances must make products more sustainable. Reparability, durability and extension of product life is the very meaning of the ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u26	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u27	[[Smile]] I am pleased to be the first man to speak. The ecological transition, in which we have been engaged for several years, aims to revolutionize our consumption and production patterns – the European green deal is another pillar. In order to achieve this effectively, it is essential to involve all our citizens. Everyone needs to understand why and how our ways of life need to evolve. This understanding is necessary if we want every Frenchman to be able to project himself into this new society. Because the energy transition that we call for will bring about a significant change in activities, jobs and skills. Acceptance of change will require better information from our citizens, concrete presentation of possible solutions and compensation for the difficulties associated with transition. If our citizens are aware of the need to protect our planet, they are asking for stronger support in the transition to a decarbonized society. This support must be directed to the territories, enterprises and employees directly or indirectly affected by these new modes of production and consumption. Environmental transition contracts are, as such, a necessary step to accompany and support the ecological transformation of the territories. Local and regional authorities are thus called upon to play a leading role in the ecological transition. With regard to the circular economy, a topic that will be of great concern to us in the coming days, communities must be at the heart of the process of valuing our resources through local initiatives: I am thinking in particular of industrial and territorial ecology – EIT. The concept of industrial and territorial ecology is thus based on a territorial assessment and exchange of resources. More concretely, the waste of one can become the resource of the other. Thus, the heat produced by a factory can supply its neighbour; pallets of wood thrown by one company can be used for another. The EIT thus results in a decrease in waste while representing a vector of economic attractiveness of the territories, thus of local and non-local employment. Because we are convinced of the great usefulness of these steps, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has adopted an amendment in committee which entrusts the regions with the task of accompanying them. I would also like to highlight here the excellent work carried out by the actors in the field and by many local authorities, who are at the forefront in the field of waste management and, more broadly, in the application of the principles of the circular economy. I am thinking, for example, of the agglomeration of Lorient as regards the separate collection of biowaste. I am also thinking of all those who have set up the incentive fee for the removal of household waste, such as the community of communes Blavet Bellevue Océan – CCBBO. Lorient and the CCBBO are pursuing industrial and territorial ecological approaches, but Dunkirk is undoubtedly the most successful example. The accompaniment I have mentioned at the moment is therefore the master word of a successful transition. If the transition to a circular economy is to be undertaken with sincerity and resolve, it cannot reasonably ignore the principle of reality. We need to set ambitious but realistic targets for preserving the competitiveness of our businesses and national employment. I will take the example of the French paper industry: the MODEM and related groups cannot support proposals which, by their immediacy and brutality, would weaken a whole sector and hence its jobs and which would also favour other uses and other less responsible sectors. That is why we will defend several amendments aimed at not compromising the industry, which would certainly happen if the use of mineral oils were removed directly or if only FSC – Forest Stewardship Council certified papers were valued. The prohibitions provided for in the bill are inapplicable, as there is no alternative to the paper used by the press to ensure good de-inking and thus quality recycling. In the case of paper used for large-print catalogues, a solution is possible, but this would result in an overload of 5% of the printing cost. Another solution exists, that of white oil, but with an additional cost of 30%, which would have economic consequences which are difficult to bear by the graphic industry. The position of the MODEM group will therefore be clear: no ban without a solution; to each prohibition, a solution. We will therefore continue to support the reduction of the production of single-use plastics. However, they are useful in certain sectors of activity – I am thinking in particular of the health sector, in which it is essential to produce sterile packaging for which there is no substitute. We are in favour of recycled plastic, perfectly integrated into the processing and recycling cycles. The landfilling of plastics should therefore be phased out in favour of recycling these materials. We will also support better consumer information, the first lever to support citizens. Title 1 of the bill is particularly important in this regard. On this point, I would like to welcome the adoption in committee of our amendments prohibiting the inclusion of the words 'biodegradable' and 'environmentally friendly' on a product or packaging. These terms mislead consumers, suggesting that these products will not affect natural environments if they are thrown into nature. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the adoption of our amendment to clarify the percentage of recycled material incorporated into products or packaging: the presence of this percentage will make the information transmitted to the consumer more reliable and will be able to direct his choice towards more virtuous products. We will also defend the fight against food waste, provided that it is organised in consultation with professionals. We understand the need for unsold food. However, small traders do not necessarily have the logistical means to fulfil this obligation. They should be helped. With regard to the provision for plastic recycling, we will propose an amendment incorporating the modalities announced by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister at the end of the Congress of Mayors. We will defend amendments to modify the method of calculation provided for in the Grenelle Act to take into account the average costs of collection and treatment incurred by communities, so as to approximate their actual operating costs. With regard to the other provisions of the text, on behalf of the MODEM and related groups, I welcome the extension and strengthening of the polluter-pays principle. The bill proposes the creation of new REP channels, so that producers, industrialists and marketers can take over their waste. It also creates new instruments of control and sanction. In particular, a malus will be applied to products that are not recyclable: this is a strong incentive for producers to turn to more virtuous processes. With the adoption of our amendment, this bonus-malus will also concern renewable resources used in products, in order to limit the negative impact that may arise from the use of plant or forestry resources when they are not managed sustainably. Like the directive, I would also like to draw your attention to the importance of preserving the successful sectors in our territories. This is the case for the ADIVALOR sector – Farmers, distributors, industrialists for the recovery of agricultural waste. I am also thinking of the fisheries sector: we will be defending an amendment to ensure that this REP sector will continue to operate under a contract-based REP sector. On behalf of my group, I would also like to support associations and companies in the social and solidarity economy. We are particularly committed to the daily actions they undertake in the territory: the circular economy and the social and solidarity economy go hand in hand. Resourcing and recycling are great for creating social cohesion around sharing and re-employment. These are activities and values to be preserved. Finally, the sailor I am can't help but mention the oceans: 10% of our garbage cans end there. The Tara sailboat, which returns from six months of mission, warns us against microplastics and butts. The solutions are on the ground. Life came 3.4 billion years ago. Natural resources, abundant at the beginning of the industrial era, were, we thought, inexhaustible. Today, it's the other way around. We need to reconcile the technosphere we created with the biosphere that created us. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and UDI-Agir groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is the state of mind in which the MODEM and related groups are dealing with these two weeks of examination. In the preamble to our debates in committee, I had expressed the wish that we should all live up to these challenges. It is with the same enthusiasm that the members of the MODEM and related groups will discuss the discussion in open session.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u28	Mr Guillaume Garot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u29	[["Ah! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I have already had the opportunity to tell you this in committee: this text goes in the right direction, at least in its intentions, because it is part of a continuity: that of the law on the energy transition for green growth, dear Barbara Pompili, as well as of the law on the fight against food waste, which I defended in 2016.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u30	[[Smile]] It's all explained!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u31	I sincerely hope that we will be able to come together on ambitious objectives, but also – and above all – on means to match the ambitions and the fine speeches that we will not fail to deliver in this House. This is the role of constructive opposition: to say what is going to happen, but also to say what does not go far enough, especially when the resources committed are not at the rendezvous of the ambitions displayed. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The stakes are considerable, since it is to bring our country into the circular economy on an even-handed basis. He is also a French chemist, Lavoisier, who, in the 18th century, had this formula that remained famous, according to which nothing is lost, nothing is created, everything is transformed. The circular economy is therefore in our culture, even though it has been buried for centuries under the sediments of capitalism that has lost all compasses. Today, everyone is well aware that the planet is not inexhaustible and that the consumer society – even overconsumption – has reached its limits. I agree with you, Madam Secretary of State: we live in a society of outburst, where we find it difficult to find meaning. So we need to regain harmony with the planet and nature. This is the challenge of the circular economy and the fight against all forms of waste. I am pleased that the 2016 law on combating food waste, of which I had the honour of being the rapporteur...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u32	We remember that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u33	... inspires the work of the Government. I would also like to commend the work of honourable senators: they have made a beautiful copy, which has strengthened the ecological ambition of the text. During the examination in committee, we achieved several advances, in particular on the subjects of food waste, repairability and reconditioning. But, at the opening of our debates in the Chamber, I would like to stress several points of vigilance. First of all, the question of taxation. It is not enough to make good speeches: it is necessary to be able to bring all public policies, including tax policy, into line. I hope that this bill will set out the principles of circular taxation: our group will therefore defend the idea of a circular VAT, which would give economic actors long-term visibility, make recycled or bio-based products more competitive and give confidence to those who produce them. We are therefore in favour of incentive taxation. Second point of vigilance: the set-up. In committee, there has been some floating on the subject – the least we can say – but it has produced a happy result: we are going back to a white leaf. Madam Secretary of State, as I understand it, you told us that nothing was completely stalled. I very much hope that we will stick to the scrupulous respect for the agreement reached between the Government and local authorities: this would inspire the confidence needed to be in the right direction and, above all, at the right pace. Let us extend the sorting gesture and, if the objectives are not achieved, the directive will be imposed on itself. The Solidarity Reemployment Fund is a third point of vigilance that I would like to address. Above all, we must ensure that all actors in the circular economy and the social and solidarity economy – including small structures – can use this fund and access funding. Today, the logic of the call for projects does not allow them to have access to funding which, however, exists. Yes, let us pool all the funds within a single structure, but make sure that all the structures on the ground can find new ways of supporting them. Fourth point of vigilance: the fight against waste and action for more solidarity. When we examined the text in committee, we made several advances in the fight against food waste: I welcome it. In line with the National Pact against Food Waste, which I launched in 2013, quantified targets have been formalized to reduce food waste. We have also created a national label against food waste: so much the better! We will now have to confirm these advances in session. However, I would like to draw your attention to the tax advantage of regularizing VAT. If it is not removed, it encourages economic actors to throw away their unsold ones rather than give them. The bill gives us an opportunity to put it in order and to achieve our ends. Finally, the last point of vigilance concerns consumer information. This is an important part of the text, but I hope that together we can go further. Let us remember that environmental signage is beneficial when it is simple, educational and visible from the moment of the purchase – I think we agree with that. In this spirit, our group will propose that you make environmental signage mandatory for the second most polluting industry in the world after oil, namely the textile industry. This amendment, which also provides for the addition of social criteria to environmental signage, will be defended by Dominique Potier: we attach a lot of prizes to it. Finally, as Jimmy Pahun said, it is important to reduce the plastic continent that pollutes the oceans. Advertising, which conveys daily messages encouraging us to consume more and more, must be put to greater use because of its responsibility in this scourge of plastic. That is why we will propose the creation of the "1% oceans". This 1 % levy from the annual advertising budget of advertisers will make it possible to finance actions to prevent waste in maritime areas. I am confident that we will find ourselves on this subject. In conclusion, I believe that we can make this text a new milestone on the road to a more responsible economy. But words won't be enough. Today, the French expect us to go further and faster in terms of ecological transition. The bill, which deals with food waste, sorting, repairing equipment, affects everyday life; the measures we will adopt will define the daily life of the French tomorrow. It is therefore all the more necessary not to disappoint their expectations. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] My deep feeling is that our society needs trust. She needs a course, a sense. It is up to us to live up to the challenge, to be realistic and, above all, ambitious. As we speak on the other side of the Pyrenees in Madrid, we are waiting for countries to mobilize against global warming and for the protection of the planet. In Paris, we must echo this mobilization and have the ambition that may not be at the COP25 meeting: let us show that political action and democracy are able to respond to the great challenges of our century. Then let's get to work!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u34	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u35	We have all said that more than 300 million tonnes of waste are recorded in France each year, of which 29% are landfilled or buried. Defiled landscapes, biodiversity in danger: this is what nourishes, on a daily basis, the dishonouring of our fellow citizens in the face of waste, waste, this society of all-disposal, overpacking and the unbridled race ever more. They tell us "stop". So we needed a text: Madam Secretary of State, you heard them, and I thank you for your initiative. Let us collectively try to live up to the challenges and expectations of our people. [[Applause on several benches of the UDI-Agir, LR, LT, SOC and GDR groups]] Before I get to the heart of the matter, I can only regret the conditions for considering the bill, in particular the schedule for public debate: over two weeks, they will be interrupted by other texts. We will have to finish no later than Friday, 20 December, with perhaps a public vote at four o'clock in the morning... In view of the quality and importance of this text, both for the members of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning but also for the citizens and, more generally, for the circular economy, I would like a solemn vote on this bill to take place at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u37	It is certainly a bit complicated and disturbing for the calendar...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u38	On the contrary, it's responsible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u39	It's not very nice for those who will be here on December 20th at four o'clock in the morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u40	...but this text is worth it. I will not talk about the deadlines for tabling amendments, which have been shortened for Members because the committee lacks administrators.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u41	However, almost 2400 amendments have been tabled!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u42	This does not allow for substantive work: it is regrettable, but it is so. However, the forced agenda must not prevent the proper holding of our debates. That is why, on behalf of the IDU Group, I hope that we will all work together to restore, as our colleague Guillaume Garot has said, confidence and meaning to these projects that we collectively carry. I welcome the important work of senators, who have greatly enriched the original text and have not hesitated to request additional impact studies on subjects where they clearly lacked. As legislators, we must systematically consider the implications of our decisions for a given activity. Beyond the discussion of the text, I would like to raise the subject of public information on waste. Data on the production, management, treatment and end-of-life of waste are now very limited and scattered. In this and many other areas, transparency is essential and has been part of our group's struggles for many years. For example, while extended producer-responsibility chains and eco-organisms have improved waste treatment and management, they have also contributed to the breakdown of information. With regard to household packaging, for example, the figures on which we rely date back to 2015, when we are almost 2020. In computer, digital and digital systems, this is not acceptable. That is why our group has proposed that the data be opened up by the eco-organizations. We therefore welcome the fact that the work in committee has provided for the establishment by the State of a policy of opening up data. Should the law still be enforced... Article L. 541-49 of the Environmental Code provides that the Government shall submit annually to Parliament a report – made public – on the implementation of the national waste prevention and management policy. This should include administrative action on cross-border shipments of waste. However, according to the National Assembly, this report, which has been due at least since 1992, has never been submitted. While Parliament is considering the draft law on combating waste and the circular economy, it is regrettable that this article has never been implemented. This report would, of course, have been useful to enable high-quality parliamentary work. I now come to the bottom of the debate, namely the management of our waste, that is to say everything that, after being extracted from the resources of our planet, then transformed, accumulates in our territories. In France, waste accounts for more than 300 million tonnes per year, of which only 35 million tonnes are household waste. It's a real challenge: bravo to take it up collectively! In the face of the depletion of non-renewable energy and natural resources, in the face of climate change and the growth of the world's population, our current functioning is neither sustainable nor capable of responding to the environmental and societal challenges of the world: everyone agrees and everyone who has already spoken has said so. We must therefore accelerate this vision of a circular economy. I think about a great French scientist, Lavoisier, who said: "Nothing is lost, nothing is created, everything is transformed. " That is perfectly suited to the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u43	[[Smile]] Nice reference!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u44	It's a little materialistic...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u45	In view of this, what are our objectives? In the IUD Group, Action and Independents, we believe that the top priority should be to reduce the overall volume of our waste and, in a second step, to re-use and improve sorting. The triptych of circular economy is first to reduce, then to reuse, and finally to recycle. Therefore, if recycling is important, it is not the first option that should be required. As Guillaume Garot said, the text proposes common sense measures to combat food waste, such as the ban on the destruction of unsold goods. Next, what waste should be stopped in the first place? Single-use objects, especially plastic ones, are a real scourge. They destroy our environment and damage biodiversity. Continents of plastics and waste are found everywhere: in all the oceans, near French Polynesia, New Caledonia or in the Mediterranean, and even on earth, with the sad example of the Quartier-sub-Poissy waste sea, which our colleague Zivka Park knows very well. With the ultramarine experience, our group wants to wage a total war against plastic pollution. Some territories are ahead and show us the way. I am thinking of New Caledonia, which elected two of my colleagues, Philippe Gomès and Philippe Dunoyer. This Pacific island passed legislation last January to ban all disposable plastic products by 2022. If our ultramarine fellow citizens can do it, so can we! Together with other groups, we will therefore propose to ban the use of microplastics. What method should be used to achieve these objectives? Our group wants information to be simplified for citizens and more pedagogy at the time of purchase and sorting. The information must be legible, clear and unified on the territory for the consumer and the citizen who produces the waste.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u46	It's important, and it's not!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u47	We believe that it is possible to achieve this without over-transposing the texts and without adding any constraints, but rather by inciting, by acting on the tax levers – as our colleague Garot said – by prohibiting the use of microplastics when substitution is possible and by supporting what is already working in the territories. I would like to refer to the case of Besançon, the constituency of our colleague Eric Alauzet. Between 2008 and 2018, the volume of residual waste in the Besançon agglomeration decreased by 35%. The reasons for this success, for a controlled cost, lie in a strong political will on the part of the elected representatives, an awareness-raising approach, a change in consumption patterns, the harmonisation of sorting instructions, work with social donors and incentive pricing – which seems to me to be the great forgotten of this text. With a household waste collection tax that includes a variable share, our citizens can measure the concrete impact of their behaviour changes, turning our workers from waste to data collectors – a subject I mentioned earlier. In line with our objective of reducing the volume of waste, combating various pollution, and in accordance with our method referred to above, our proposals for amendments therefore revolve around five areas: the fight against waste; the fight against plastic pollution; the proper functioning of the REP programmes; the supervision of the deposit; the reconciliation between waste reduction and the daily lives of citizens and businesses. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mrs Barbara Pompili and Mr Guillaume Garot also applaud]] Madam Secretary of State, I will conclude by stressing that our group is dealing with the debates constructively, in dialogue and in respect for each other's positions. We expect an exchange of excellent quality in the coming days.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u48	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u49	In the preamble and in accordance with our rules of ethics, I must state that I am the founder and president of the National Institute of Circular Economy, an association founded in 2012 and composed of 200 members: companies from all sectors of activity, communities, universities. I thank the Secretary of State for having recognized my commitment for seven years by appointing me a great witness to the circular economy roadmap as early as September 2017. Of course, I am here in this House to serve the common interest: I speak and act only on my behalf, as a Member of Parliament for France, as a Member of the Libertés et Territoires Group and, let me add, as an ecologist who has been engaged for more than twenty-five years. An Arab proverb says, "When you drink the water from the well, thank the man who dug it. I would like to thank Christophe Bouillon, who, as early as 2011, mentioned the circular economy here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u51	I would also like to recall that ministers Delphine Batho and Pascal Canfin took this issue into account as part of their ministerial commitments from the beginning of 2013 and that Minister Philippe Martin then made the circular economy, as early as September 2013, an essential focus of his policy. This is evidenced in particular by the first national conference on circular economy, decentralized in December 2013 in Gardanne, at the Georges-Charpak School of Mines – a symbol. I also welcome Ségolène Royal, which, as of April 2014, has made it a major focus of its commitments, which was reflected in Title IV of the Act on the Energy Transition for Green Growth of August 2015. I do not forget the Minister of Economy of 2016, Emmanuel Macron, who gave a notable speech to the National Council of Industry, the CNI, on the opportunity to take the path of the circular economy by transforming our model of production and consumption. I was there, and I would especially like to welcome the presence of Matthieu Orphelin, who was already committed to the circular economy, but who unfortunately will not be able to participate in our work. As Minister, but also later as President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron has always worked on a more wealth-creating model, that of an alternative industrial society to the hyper-consumption society. Let's go back to the circular economy. A world in which we consume more resources than the Earth's ability to renew them has no future. Today we need the equivalent of two planets a year to meet our needs. But there is no second planet that will come to park next to ours. So we need to reconsider our model. Worse still: this flight forward towards the shortage, which will generate wars, accelerates with population growth: within thirty years, by 2050, humanity will have 10 billion inhabitants, of which 6 to 7 billion will have the same way of life as we do. If they adopt our consumption model, the planet will not be able to respond to these challenges. In three decades, six term MPs, the planet will not have won a ton, but we risk going to war and shortages. There is therefore an urgent need to act. It is not an opportunity bill, but a major issue that we need to develop here. It is not the number of articles that will count, but the path that we will manage to draw. The Liberties and Territories Group thus regrets the rejection of several of its amendments. One of them proposed concrete targets by 2050 in terms of the consumption of raw materials compared to the number of inhabitants, in order to return to a path balanced with the limits of the planet. We regret that the consumption of the world's resources does not have the same limits as CO emissions – especially in tonnes of raw materials that can be consumed in relation to the number of inhabitants. We do not understand that our amendment, which sets out a roadmap and framework for the number of new products sold each year, cannot even be presented in the House so that we can at least discuss it and begin to define another development model. We want a fundamental change in our model. Madam Secretary of State, you yourself said you wanted to "change this voracious capitalism".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u52	That's great!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u53	We know that this is only the translation of an inappropriate form of wealth measurement, focused on virtual and artificial, based on the accounting of an account in euros, dollars or other currency, in a bank often totally foreign to our country. The only real bank we have is our planet, its resources, its biodiversity. It is therefore urgent to change the way we measure the creation of wealth in singular, or wealth in plural. It is the meaning of a bill from our colleagues in the Socialist and Related Group that will be discussed on Thursday. It is above all the subject of an amendment proposed by the Libertés et Territoires Group: to study the advisability of a new approach to accounting, which is so-called integrated, taking into account the creation or destruction of economic but also social and environmental wealth. This amendment, which called for the publication of a report, was rejected in committee. However, it was not a question of transforming, pushing our model, but of exploring new ways of approaching accounting. I hope that in the Chamber we will be able to adopt this amendment to at least open a reflection on what defines capitalism today and what we can implement to change that definition. The Libertés et Territoires Group would like to recall that it is taking a positive look at these debates. We see progress, in particular in terms of product life, the ambition to contain food waste and finished products, and the implementation of operational elements in certain sectors – toys, DIY, building. All this is to be greeted. The desire to rebalance the recycling and reuse of products is quite notable. We regret, however, the relative timidity of the Government and of the majority, which nurture ambition without exceeding the so-called limits imposed by the European Union. I dare say, "Musclez, let's muscle our game! ", to win on this subject. We cannot resign ourselves to maintaining the same taxes without reducing, in particular, VAT on repair. We cannot ignore the proposal for a circular VAT, referred to earlier by our colleague Guillaume Garot, which adapts to a circular economy and favours good practices by preserving resources. We also do not understand the strategy on plastic, which focuses attention on recycling material only on bottles of drinks, while the stake is much wider, if not dramatic. Let me remind you that the Mediterranean represents 1% of the world's salt waters, but 7% of plastic pollution. It's a sea that, in twenty years, could die. Its biodiversity could disappear, particularly as a result of the exploitation and use of the sea. Plastic bottles are not the causes of this pollution: they are micro-wastes, micro-particles. That's why we're proposing three times, first with a goal: zero fossil plastic in 2030. There is then a tool to create: a national plastic agency that, like the Agence française pour la biodiversité, will allow to gather and concentrate the objectives on the containment of the plastic that overflows us. Finally, an appointment should be arranged very quickly: general statements of packaging, in order to redefine its role and place. These amendments were rejected in committee; We will present them again in the Chamber. The discussion we will have on these issues will allow us to know whether this is a circular economy law, or a simple waste management and consumer information law. The Liberties and Territories Group has tabled an amendment proposing to amend the title of the bill. It will be studied at the end of the debate, and we will be able to withdraw it if by then we have collectively provided answers to the ardent need to transform our model in depth. We have only a few years left: in thirty years we will be 10 billion and will already be in conflict for access to resources – at war, it must be said. It can therefore be a historic law, as you say, Madam Secretary of State, and it is an ambition that I support: a great law that changes the system and where the economy will be of high added value, as the rapporteur Riotton has said – provided, however, that this text is up to the limits of our planet, not the media or the Café du commerce. [[Barbara Pompili applauds]] Let us conclude here a historic law, during our debates and then a solemn vote, in January, at the dawn of a new year 2020 and a new decade. Let us close a parenthesis in the history of humanity, opened 150 years ago by the industrial revolution and aggravated by the hyper-consumption of our society. Let us return to a balance between humanity and planet and we will be at the meeting you have set, Madam Secretary of State. For my part, I'll be by your side.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u54	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u55	First of all, I should like to thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for putting on the agenda an essential subject, that of the complete overhaul of our system of production and consumption. I would like to say how strange it is to debate this text, which you yourself call historic, in an empty three-quarters hemicycle...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u56	Yes! But we're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u57	Where are the Insubs?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u58	...and in a country blocked by the strike. The conditions for the debate are more than questionable. We absolutely must stop this irresponsible and suicidal flight, this overproduction of material goods and resources. This bill could have been a coup d'état for all-disposable society, both for human beings and for goods. But your circular economy doesn't exist. You turn in circles, in the midst of contradictions of which you struggle to grasp the fundamental character. Capitalism is totally incapable of responding to ecological problems. Worse: our economic system is responsible for the ecological impasse in which we find ourselves. The 90 largest oil, gas and coal-producing companies alone account for 57% of the increase in atmospheric CO concentration, 50% of the rise in temperature and 30% of the rise in ocean level since 1880. The French company Total is in the top 20 of these criminal transnationals. The dementia of the capitalist economy pushes us to the worst short-term scenarios. By 2100, if everything continues as it is today, the global mass of waste will triple. Take the case of climate change. The current dynamics are disastrous. We do not know whether we have passed the threshold beyond which human life is impossible – the radical unpredictability of what is ahead is our strongest certainty – but if not, we know how to get out of it: we must drastically reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. Now take the question of waste. A plastic floating continent, three times larger than the French territory, kills fish, turtles and dissolves into microplastics with terrible effects for the marine ecosystem and human health. If you only rely on incentives for your economic circulation, I will already announce where the waste will end: in our rivers and rivers, in our oceans, in our soils, in France or elsewhere. Why mention here the elsewhere and the far away? Because the expression of capitalist delusion and the destructive power of free trade also meets the world of waste reprocessing. Malaysia, for example, imports nearly 900000 tonnes of plastic waste annually. Here is the message of the centres of international capitalism: "Shide up this waste that I cannot see! Contaminated water reserves, lost crops, respiratory diseases, installation of plastic mafias, collection of exposed precarious waste: these countries and their populations bear the economic, social and environmental costs of our exported pollution. This is the real face of our system based on the all-displayable! Current waste management has an international public cost and constitutes a gold mine for the private sector. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] China ceased to accept waste from others in 2018. Indeed, she had a good back. For years, it has become the world's industrial workshop: its CO emissions have gone away and its industries have fed European and US consumer societies. He was also sent our waste. At the same time, it served as a polluter producer and as a garbage can of the world: it washed the ecological consciences of those who claimed to pollute less while increasing their importance. False consciousness and capitalist hypocrisy can find a green dye. In France, this hypocrisy is called "La République en marche". You spoke at the moment, Madam Secretary of State, of "breaking up with voracious capitalism". I would have liked to applaud with both hands, but your bill is a mountain that gives birth to a mouse: no structural change on the horizon. Hear us well: your text is not bad in itself, it should have just intervened ten years ago and is not up to the stakes. Why? First of all, because this text shines by the absence of constraints for companies. You still prefer coercion, but it works so well that when governments wanted to encourage businesses to create jobs, 87% of the jobs created were CSDs and a third were even CSDs of less than a day. When you encourage the transport of goods to less pollute, what is the result? Nearly 90 per cent of goods are transported by road, in trucks, rather than by rail, yet forty times less polluting. In addition, the Government is multiplying free trade agreements that increase merchandise trade across the globe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u59	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u60	To incite is to misunderstand the problem. To put the debate in clear terms, it is necessary to return to one of the essential distinctions of the classical political economy and not to mix the sphere of production with that of circulation. If you inject more and more products into the traffic sphere, you will have more waste, pollution and environmental damage of all kinds. However, the cumulative effects of the continued expansion of the capitalist market, the growth of the world's population and the natural springs of capital accumulation make your attempts to build a circular economy fictitious, from the outset and without any doubt possible. But you have preferred to inform the consumer rather than take the lead of industrialists and assume the role of a regulatory state. Secondly, because your bill does not prepare the radical fork that we absolutely need at the time of the ecological emergency. Nothing in this text takes account of planetary limits in the production model. The life cycle of the products is a real gruyère: from the extraction of materials to their end-of-life processing, the environmental and social impacts are catastrophic. Not to mention the very usefulness of the objects produced. It is a democratic redefinition of the desirable needs that we would need. Worse: you refuse to attack the armed arm of overproduction and overconsumption of advertising. No light billboards? Prohibiting advertisements for the most polluting goods? Each time, Madam Secretary of State, you responded by announcing a report; According to the Association Résistance à l'aggression advertique – RAP, this report will not be published until March 2020, that is, after the vote on this bill! However, regulating advertising means overthrowing the imagination, reaffirming that we are neither available brains nor machines to buy, but many beings of culture, dreams, social beings. Regulating advertising means tackling this frustration machine to rethink collective happiness. You turned it down. Similarly, you have rejected our amendments to promote reparation and to combat the planned obsolescence. So, what to do? First, we must tirelessly fight the conception of the world that you defend, which is intimately linked to the interests of the great capitalists. That is why the struggle of these days is essential. I would like to greet the strikers and demonstrators fraternally.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u61	I don't see the connection!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u62	Bringing you back on the reform of pensions, which destroys the principle of solidarity, is inflicting a devastating defeat on the powers of money. This kind of defeat is a prerequisite for a successful ecological transition. We are supporters of popular ecology, the one that never dissociates the social battle from the ecological battle. And because of this: the ecological stake is also an issue of distribution of wealth, so much so that some rich people imagine themselves being able to become the last survivors by building artificial islands. The ecological battle sees a titanic confrontation between the forces of money and demeasurement and the forces of possible survival and better life. In Chile, Lebanon, Algeria and now in France, that's what's happening. Our times cannot support lukewarm conceptions of politics. Yes, we are warmer than the climate, as young people call it on the street. We will not let you destroy our pension system with your speeches full of contempt and cold hatred for the workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u63	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u64	Thank you to the strikers who are fighting for the whole people! Courage to the users! And finally, that government that plunges the country into chaos! France deserves better than what you prepare. Congratulations to France, who is getting up today! Let's be in number in tomorrow's protests!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u65	Let me remind you that we are discussing the bill on the fight against waste and the circular economy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u66	Retreat by points, it is the individualism king that characterizes your world.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u67	You're out of the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u68	Distribution is solidarity between generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u69	It's good to call him back!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u70	Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u71	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u72	It's not a meeting here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u73	Intergenerational solidarity is at the heart of the issues we are talking about here. It must be built on deep regulation of the sphere of economic production. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] I'm going back to our text. We have been saying this for a long time: the best waste is that which is not produced. You prefer to think that any waste must be turned into an economic outlet. The decoupling between economic growth and emissions growth is not observed anywhere. What is at stake is the capitalist accumulation itself. You cannot strike this system in the heart, for you are the irreducible armor of it. That is the meaning of your insinuating protests for ecology, your green words that do not commit to anything. As for us, we are here, determined, and we know that we need to build a new model, to push back the imaginations, to demonstrate a political energy that you put only – and forever in your case – at the service of the most powerful and great fortunes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u74	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u75	[[Mr. André Chassaigne applauds]] We must reorient production towards the necessary needs, leaving the consumer society, which supposes having it in place of being. We must fight against the invasion of public space through advertising. We must think solidarity before thinking money. Otherwise, we're already dead.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u76	Where's Jean-Luc Mélenchon?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u77	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u78	Of course, the devastating magnitude of the wasteful use of resources and the mountains of waste that we produce challenge us. How could it be otherwise when we see these "plastic continents" and this food waste in Europe, which would be enough to feed all the malnourished people in the world? But we will not get out of the current impasses on the basis of the illusion that by learning to "get right," if I may say so, we can continue as before. Just as the energy transition begins with reducing our energy consumption, we are faced with the need to drastically reduce the amount of waste we produce. A sociologist, author of the book Homo detritus – Critique de la société du waste, recently called us "to move on to another form of regulation of industrialists and public policies." We share his point of view. Let us ask ourselves whether this bill allows us to take a decisive step in this direction. You have already provided an answer, Madam Secretary of State,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u79	Mrs "the" Secretary of State, please, Mr Wulfranc!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u80	Excuse me, Madam Secretary of State... In committee, you have therefore relied on the Allarde decree and the Le Chapelier law, two founding texts of liberalism, to reject a number of our proposals to strengthen the regulations imposed on industrialists. [[Smile]] Of course, we must recognize that this text is intended to meet an aspiration that everyone shares. The initial ambition of the draft law required a minimum to improve the management of companies' stocks and to develop appropriate recycling, reuse and re-use channels. However, this text, in its original version, did in fact contain only relatively weak measures. The Senate has fortunately seized this with the willingness, which we welcome, to give it more consistency by introducing major topics such as reducing waste production to its source or combating overpacking, plastic pollution and wild deposits. Adopted almost unanimously in the Senate, this text was also an opportunity to break the Government's highly revealing project of introducing a recycling scheme for plastic bottles. I am talking about a revealing project because you would like to make us believe that the circular economy is the bridge of Avignon: we all dance in circles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u81	Not bad! Mrs. Secretary of State will appreciate it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u82	That's far from the case. Your intention to introduce a directive on single-use plastic bottles illustrates perfectly the risk inherent in this new economy if it remains dominated by the major industrial production and exchange groups, in this case by Coca-Cola.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u83	They're the ones pulling the strings!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u84	The aim of the project was, in essence, to reduce public pressure on packaging users and to enable those who place products on the market to stop financing end-of-life management, which is now carried out by municipalities. This would have represented a shortfall of between 250 and 300 million euros for the latter, and for the French, a cost of nearly 600 million euros. We will return to these elements during our discussions. For the rest, of course, we cannot but deplore the fact that the work in committee has led to the sweetening and blunting of the measures proposed by the Senate by means of dilatory procedures. You have postponed the implementation of certain measures, transformed binding obligations into optional measures and reduced the amount of fines. You have also lowered the targets for reducing the amount of household waste by 2030, neutralised the environmental display device and refused to set a minimum period of spare parts availability.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u85	Oh, no! Not you, Mr. Wulfranc!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u86	Similarly, you have receded in the fight against software obsolescence. You once again feel that the margins of manufacturers and distributors are more favourable than the fight against over-consumption and the expectations of our citizens. I will give a striking illustration. The Senate had proposed to make mandatory the mention, on products that display a durability date such as yogurt, that the product concerned remains consumable beyond that date. It was a minimal advance. You have decided, in committee, to leave it to the industrialist whether or not to mention it, in accordance with his wishes. Do you really believe that Danone, for example, whose interest is still to sell its yogurts, will tomorrow inform its customers of the purely indicative nature of the date of sustainability? Of course not!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u87	Emmanuel Faber is a very influential man!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u88	By making this mention optional, you therefore empty it of its substance. You may find me too harsh, but at least we remain dubious about the practical scope of this text, as well as we find you very light on the social and financial accompanying measures for employees and companies in the sectors that will have to adapt tomorrow to changes in the technical system. This is a grievance that we have repeatedly addressed to you. It is not enough to say that the ecological transition will create jobs in the future or that the development of waste management or recycling systems is a tremendous source of jobs: we must ask ourselves both about the quality of these future jobs and how to implement them, here and now. The social and solidarity economy and the jobs of integration cannot serve as a surety to clear the customs of wild and voracious capitalism, to use your own words. At the heart of industrial policy, research and investment efforts must be stepped up, together with training and qualification of employees. This is the primary guarantee of know-how and expertise that determines sustainable production. Overall, it is the question of the association of employees with the productive and commercial choices of the company that is being asked, which would make it possible to counteract the strategy of planned obsolescence at source. In all sectors, employees are at the initiative of proposals which can structurally promote rational production. Thus in metallurgy and car construction, to develop light vehicle ranges, more accessible to consumers, more resource-efficient and therefore more waste and pollutant discharges; or in cardboard paper, to develop the production of recycled paper and packaging. The example of the UPM Chapelle Darblay plant, an industrial flagship for the production of recycled paper from the Seine axis, now threatened with closure, is typical of your government's industrial atonia. I agree with our colleague from MODEM Jimmy Pahun on this subject. In the capital goods and textile industries, French companies that place robust products on the market with state-of-the-art know-how should be preserved – it's Moulinex against Prada and its recycled plastic bag at 1300 euros: more than the smic! In the health and body care industry, research would be directed towards the production of useful drugs packaged in a healthy way, abandoned by groups because they are not profitable enough, and not towards the production of high-performance cosmetics – it is Sanofi, owned by L'Oréal. Finally, in agriculture and food, we defend the regulation and regulation of prices paid to producers, which would limit the scandalous margins of large-scale distribution, the grabbers of our time, which are a source of waste. These are the groups that you are about to allow to work more on Sundays. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] All of this is a matter of policy choices other than those of your government. Behind all this, Madam Secretary of State, the fundamental opposition is not between producers and consumers, but between capital and labour. You're pretending to want to domesticate capitalism? We will see during this debate if the ladies of Avignon are as bold as Pablo Picasso!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u89	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u90	Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u91	The overconsumption of plastic, the waste of food, the abandonment of waste in the wild or the planned obsolescence are all non-virtuous practices of our production and consumption model. Faced with these anomalies, our fellow citizens, often left powerless or without recourse, are asking for solutions. Aware of the urgent need to accelerate the ecological transition, citizens want to have the means to act on their scale and say they are ready to change their model if the distribution of efforts is fair. It is with great enthusiasm that I am speaking on behalf of the Republic Group today because this bill on the fight against waste and the circular economy meets these expectations, with concrete measures aimed at better consumption, better production, better management of our waste and mobilising all the actors. Concrete measures to strengthen consumer information, with the display of the environmental qualities and characteristics of the products, the establishment of a repairability index, the generalisation of the Triman logo for a more comprehensible and easier sorting gesture or the strengthening of the availability of spare parts to combat the planned obsolescence. Concrete measures to combat waste, with the ban on the elimination of unsold products from new products, with the sale of medicines in one unit to end the ecological aberration of our stocks of unused and discarded medicines, with the printing of cash tickets only at the customer's request or with the strengthening of the tools to reduce the waste of food. More concrete measures to mobilise industrialists and transform production methods, with the creation of new REP channels for toys, sports articles, butts, buildings, medical equipment among others, and with the obligation to take over free of charge by distributors and online sales. Finally, concrete measures to improve the collection of our waste and to combat wild deposits, with the harmonisation of the colour of containers, the obligation for eco-organisms to ensure the traceability of waste or the strengthening of the powers of local elected officials to sanction infringements of waste abandonment in nature. This bill is the result of a collective and demanding work, resulting from lengthy consultations with the main actors in the waste prevention and management sector. We have continued this work in this assembly for weeks, through more than a hundred hours of hearings and meetings with actors on the ground. This reflection has enabled Members of the La République Group on the move to make new proposals in committee to strengthen the ambition of the text. During the sessional review, we will continue to support strategic measures to enrich it on several fronts. While France produces about 5 tonnes of waste per capita per year, we will first reaffirm our priority of reducing waste production at source. Plastics are a problem both for the environment and for our health. These are our daily sachets, bottles, packaging and utensils. One solution is required: to act on the end of the era of single-use plastic and to accelerate the release of the disposable all-plastic. Our group will therefore have a strong objective: the end of the placing on the market of all single-use plastic packaging by 2040. To support this ambition, the text of the Committee on Sustainable Development has made major progress. We have banned all single-use packages for meals taken on site in fast food within three years. We have limited the availability of disposable plastic toys in children's meals. We offered customers the opportunity to use a reusable container in the supermarkets' catering shelves and to place their packaging on the way out of the crates. We have banned overpacking of fruits and vegetables. We have imposed the provision of drinking water fountains in establishments receiving from the public, to reduce our consumption of plastic bottles. All these measures, and many others, are a significant step forward in reducing our plastic waste at source. Then we continue to support mechanisms that improve waste collection. This requires the harmonization of our sorting practices across the territory, as provided for in the bill, which we want to strengthen with a clear and legible display. It also involves the installation of sorting baskets in all public spaces, stations, airports and stadiums. Companies must also be made more involved and comply with their five-flow sorting obligations. We have also proposed measures to speed up the sorting and recovery of bio-waste, food waste. These bio-wastes account for one third of French waste bins and a large part is still incinerated and buried. These methods of treatment lead to various pollution and waste of energy resources. As regards collection, France must also comply with the objectives it has helped to set at European level, in particular that of collecting 90% of plastic bottles within 10 years. For several months, members of the La République group have been supporting the possibility of re-employment and retraining, while paying particular attention to the fears expressed by some communities. The President of the Republic recalled: nothing will be done without mayors and communities, at the heart of the public waste service. What is certain is that in the face of the 150 million plastic bottles thrown into nature every year, we must act. Madam Secretary of State, you have initiated a great deal of consultation and we trust you in reaching a compromise that will maintain our ambition while reassuring elected officials and communities. We also want to improve recycling and waste treatment. Thirty years ago, as the country began to be submerged by the waste resulting from the generalisation of all-disposal, France invented the PER, in terms of packaging. This polluter-pays system requires manufacturers and distributors of products to ensure the end of life of their products. Thirty years later, we are reforming the governance of PERs with the creation, in each eco-organization, of a stakeholder committee composed of associations, communities and waste producers and operators. It was very expected. We are strengthening the polluter-pays principle in law with the creation of new, broad-based producer-responsibility sectors, for example, on tobacco products. In concrete terms, the tobacco industry will have to finance and develop a free system for the recovery, cleaning and treatment of butts. This is a major environmental breakthrough, when you know that a single butt can pollute up to 500 litres of water. The construction sector will also be heavily involved with the creation of a REP sector. With 48 million tonnes of waste per year, the sector is the largest emitter of waste in France and it was not possible that it would not participate in this effort. In order to go further, we will present in the course of the discussions the proposal for the creation of a new REP sector for technical medical aids in order to increase their re-employment and reduce the rest of the burden for persons with disabilities. Our group will also support measures to enable consumers to access eco-responsible products. Often phones, computers or refrigerators are not repairable, or their repair costs too much. To put an end to the all-thinking era, the bill provides for an obligation to inform buyers of the degree of repairability of the products. The availability of spare parts will have to be known for in-store sales and online sales: this is a great advance that has been defended by our group in committee. The work of our rapporteur, Véronique Riotton, has also made it possible to define an availability period of 15 working days, and to make the repairability index visible at the time of purchase. These measures will considerably speed up the fight against planned obsolescence and will virtuously change our consumption habits. Beyond the measures in this bill, we must be fully aware that the circular economy is a new model of society, combining social justice and environmental protection. But it is also a great economic opportunity for our territories, with a potential of 300,000 additional non-relocable jobs in the areas of recycling, sharing economy, reuse or re-employment. In this sense, the solidarity re-employment fund, introduced by the Senate and enriched by the work of our rapporteur Stephanie Kerbarh, will provide financial support to the structures that contribute to it in our territories, and I welcome it. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I would like to commend the work of my fellow leaders of their parliamentary group here and of the rapporteurs. Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, and your teams for your availability. I hope that we will find the convergences useful to support this text largely at the end of our debates in open session.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u92	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u93	Reducing the volume of waste, encouraging the incorporation of recycled materials, making repair possible, combating waste, banning the destruction of unsold materials: these are all goals we share. It is in this constructive spirit that we have actively participated in the work of the Committee on Sustainable Development, proposing amendments to improve the text – not always successfully, I regret – and insisting on the need to set ambitious but realistic objectives and to ensure that companies and sectors already organised will have the time necessary for any transition, the time to rethink their production methods. While the ambition must be to reduce waste, the legislator we are must ensure that the proposals are realistic and applicable within the deadlines set by the text. In some respects, we have seen an overbidding in committee, which may give the impression that certain objectives have been set with a wet finger, without being supported by a prior impact assessment. The Republican Group will therefore renew its proposal to have impact studies to determine with greater reliability the objectives and timetable for the deployment of the main measures. In particular, these impact studies will have to focus on the cost of the planned transformations – EUR 1.5 billion – and their impact on consumers' purchasing power, a sensitive issue that should not be overlooked. It is also essential to ensure that the creation of new eco-organisations and REPs will not destabilise the channels which have already been organised and which have established successful collective systems. We have also pointed out a certain propensity to overtranspose European law, particularly concerning consumer information. We will try to avoid such a drift, because the French business market is not limited to hexagon. While the text has been enriched by a multitude of provisions during its examination in committee and in the Senate, it has not always gained clarity. Some articles are now similar to a catalogue of good practices, which could be regarded as a "tote" item. Plastic is prominent among the waste of concern identified by the text, which is legitimate as it is responsible for multiple pollutions, especially in rivers and oceans. We support the idea of favouring the use of recyclable plastic and encouraging an ever greater incorporation of recycled plastic into products and materials. Again, if we agree on the substance, we have expressed differences as to the method to be followed, in particular with regard to the recycling directive. This issue has taken a somewhat disproportionate place in the communication accompanying the bill, which fortunately is not limited to this measure. A confusion was maintained between the re-use order as we know it and the French plebiscite it, and the recycling order which would ultimately change the route of the bottles to the sorting centres, since the latter would be collected for recycling. This is a misconception that could destabilize investments and circuits in communities. As you know, the cause of evil is elsewhere, in particular in the collection carried out outside the home and in the large agglomerations. Finally, the amendments tabled in committee to reintroduce the recycling order – which the Senate had abolished – contrast in particular with the commitments made by the President of the Republic to the mayors, stating that this particularly sensitive subject must be the subject of an essential consultation. We will be extremely vigilant. We will ensure that the new proposals introduced at the meeting are in line with these commitments and receive the consent of the main associations of communities, first and foremost the Association of Mayors of France. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] If we agree with the objectives set out in the bill, despite differences in how to achieve them, we regret that the debate on waste treatment has only touched upon the need to promote and support eco-design. By focusing on the consequences, the reflection did not place sufficient emphasis on the causes, in particular on research and development, which alone will bring about an end to non-recyclable materials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u94	Mr. Louis Aliot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u95	Our society has exponentially increased its consumption of resources, so much so that it would be fair to talk about overconsumption. Like the cicada of fable, we might find ourselves very devoid when the winter of resources comes. We must therefore consume better, and use our resources more efficiently. In this sense, the gradual transition to a circular economy could allow us to achieve real savings while having a positive effect on the environment. To achieve this, local communities have a major role to play. However, I would like to draw your attention to a problem raised by the local elected representatives: the generalization of the provision for plastic bottles, and incidentally the cans. The idea, of Scandinavian origin, is attractive on paper, but its realization could be much less so, as local authorities would be the biggest losers. It should be remembered that they now have the task of reselling secondary raw materials on their behalf, and that they have invested a great deal in the recycling industry in recent years. If the bill entrusts storekeepers with the resale of plastic containers, local authorities will see their budgets seriously reduced. Should they increase taxation to compensate for this loss? Unfortunately, large retail outlets, which sell large stocks of plastic products, would be the primary beneficiaries of such a device, while small retailers, who do not have the means to store bottles like their competing titaniums, would as always be the big losers. Another problem, will the weakest be able to report the products in the instructions? Nothing is less obvious for the elderly; They will therefore bear the price increase without being able to return all the bottles recorded. False good idea par excellence, the provision on plastic packaging risks adding a little more to the budget of the intercommunities, while they need funds. I would therefore like to know whether the Government still intends to introduce the principle of the provision – even if mixed – for packaging and, if so, in what form. Furthermore, the ban on the sale of unprocessed fruit and vegetables under conditioning would be a major mistake, which could distort competition and run counter to the Government's public health objectives. It would create an undeniable distortion of competition for fresh fruit and vegetables, and would lead to serious problems of traceability of the products offered for sale. Packaging can be used to provide information on products in response to consumer expectations. The issues of product conservation and sustainability, which are at the heart of the fight against food waste and loss, are not sufficiently addressed in the bill. Instead, let's work on packaging from recycled wood, paper or cardboard, as it already exists, and continue to support innovation and research in this area. Finally, I think it is necessary to address a central issue that is not retained in the text: localism. How can we hope to build a more ecologically virtuous economy if, at the same time, we stress the problems by perpetuating a globalized system of mass consumption? We can vote on all the laws we want, they will be ineffective until we reduce the circuits to make them more virtuous and sustainable. We must produce and consume as much locally as possible, French, European products if possible, of course, ideally in their region of origin for all aspects of agri-food. With regard to meat, it is imperative to know the origin of the animals, their method of slaughter and the quality of the farms. The consumers we are have the right to know. Do not prevent anyone from producing in accordance with the laws, but in full transparency guaranteeing complete freedom of choice: this is a strong idea that the National Rally has long defended. It has the merit of reassuring consumers and developing local and national consumption favourable to our productions, useful to our economy and protecting the environment in all its dimensions. Global free trade has ruined entire parts of our economy in terms of agriculture, industry and technology, and our trade balance has been in dull for too long. It is time to adjust our model and better organize ourselves, for the benefit of all, for the health of everyone and to preserve the planet. Beyond the necessary efforts to combat waste and recycle, the circular economy will first of all require the establishment of a national priority for local consumption, which is a genuine national preference for French and European productions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u96	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u97	To listen to you, ladies and gentlemen, I have some hope for the discussions that are going on. It seems to me that we all share the same ambition and the same will to fight against the excesses of our society. We agree, in all groups, to promote a re-employment society, but also to revive the French industry and relocate production to our territory – this is the whole purpose of the concept of extended producer responsibility, to which we intend to give real meaning and concrete translation. We also want to give a central place to local authorities, with new means and financial support – because, as you have all pointed out, the circular economy must be deployed at the local level. I am pleased to note from the outset that we share the desire to transform our consumption and production patterns in depth, and to give greater meaning to the economy. There are some differences between us, of course, but I do not think they are insurmountable. However, I shall return to some of them, stressing in advance the importance for the Government of respecting European law. We are convinced that it is important to preserve Europe, to transform it – the newly constituted Commission – but also to respect Community law. We must encourage Europe to increase its ambitions, but under no circumstances should we flout it. This is the delicate balance that we will have to maintain throughout our work, and I will be as strict as possible in this area. With regard to taxation, let us not give in to easy solutions that have not been proven. Here I am thinking of reduced VAT in catering: if it has given air to the restaurant owners, it has not necessarily improved purchasing power or produced concrete results for consumers. I come to two points of divergence concerning the interpretation of the text, starting with the text. Once again, the directive is not an end in itself, but an instrument among many others. With the exception of some of you who are locked in outdated debates, you have, moreover, largely insisted on the great richness of the text, beyond the small measure of the instruction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u98	It can block everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u99	I have said it from the beginning and I repeat it here: local authorities must be at the centre of the game. The objective is not recycling but re-use, and plastic must be used to finance re-use. The incentive is also subject to a divergence of interpretation. We do believe in incentives, but they do not prevent coercion or control. You will notice, Ms. Panot, that the bill is intended to fundamentally reform the governance of the REP channels in order to introduce coercion. But if a dose of constraint is necessary, I do not believe in the solutions imposed by the top – and that is the philosophy of the text. Finally, I would like to thank you. You have all insisted on making your contributions to the bill, both in committee and in the Senate. All these additions constitute the richness of a text which was originally composed, it is true, of a dozen articles and which today has about a hundred. So I thank you for all these additions – and I know there will be others. I hope that we will continue to build this bill in favour of the circular economy by following very concretely this method of working collectively, working together, and discussing constructively. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We must also, I repeat, tighten our elbows because the lobbys are powerful. They are trying to soften the text by distorting our remarks. We can make this law a new milestone by applying to ourselves a principle that we also promote: placing the environment above small political interests. By bringing together Members from all sides of the House, we will show the citizens, who expect a lot of us on environmental issues, that we can work beyond our small differences to propose an ambitious and collective text. That is also how we instill confidence in democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u100	At the request of the Committee, the meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u101	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u102	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u103	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u104	I would like to say a few words to begin the discussion of the articles before Article 1 on the strategic objectives for the management and prevention of waste production. I see that what appears to be progress could actually be a step backwards. I'll only take one example. The target for reducing household and economic waste is increased from 10% to 15%; In parallel, the deadline is staggered from 2020 to 2030. The progress that this represents can be dubative. Additional time is allowed to achieve a higher goal: is it progress or a setback? The reasons for this may be questioned. First of all, it is clear that behind this question, it is the capitalist system as a whole that is at issue, since it favours the mode of production, which leads to an obsession with the maximization of profit in a context of competitiveness and competition. It is well known that multinationals have intervened forcefully to ensure that the ambitions of this text are as limited as possible. The second reason we can identify is that waste is a source of profit for multinationals and, for some, a particularly juicy raw material. I will conclude by quoting Pope Francis, even if you may be surprised. He talks about the "culture of waste"...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u105	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u106	... which, according to him, characterizes the relationship of the individual to nature and to others. It notes a double acceleration: that of the flow, and that of an unbraked exploitation of nature and men. He therefore calls for a radical paradigm shift in favour of social justice and the common good, which we are taking back. I'm not sure the bill goes far in that direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u107	Mr Louis Aliot has the floor to support Amendment No. 1149.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u108	By this amendment, we propose to include the concept of localism in the environmental code. Ecology and the defence of the environment can no longer be achieved through corrective measures, but through a change of model, particularly in the field of production, hence the need to take into account the concept of localism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u109	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u110	Our bill is intended to change both the way in which resources are produced and how they are consumed. But it is not because one mode of production is local that it is more virtuous than another, and that in many ways, as we have seen. On the other hand, we are planning measures, which I hope you will vote for, to promote local jobs. I am thinking in particular of all the repair professionals, for whom we have proposed substantial progress. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u111	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u112	Your proposal presents several pitfalls, Mr. Member. First of all, before a principle is included in the law, we must first define it. This prerequisite seems indispensable. But the notion of localism is not defined today – not even in the dictionary! Furthermore, as the rapporteur has explained, we should be careful: a product manufactured at random in Hénin-Beaumont does not necessarily have a better environmental balance than a product manufactured, for example, in my department of Vaucluse. Rather, there is a need for very concrete tools to ensure transparency on a product, to determine where it comes from, what its destination is and what its environmental characteristics are. That is exactly what we are proposing with this bill. I therefore welcome the idea that you will vote for this article, which aims to ensure greater transparency and power for the consumer. But we go further: what we want is to restore their power to the French industries, to create local, non-relocable employment, in all the territories. The whole purpose of the bill is to relocate a large part of the production to France. How? On leaving the society of the all-disposable, to go towards that of the all-reusable. This involves combating planned obsolescence, developing local repair and recycling circuits and financing resourcing. In short, as you will see with the reform of the REP sectors, we want to reindustrialize France at the local level. I can therefore share, in the absence of the method, some of your objectives. Beyond political signage, we need to deal with the core of the issues through very concrete measures. I am therefore looking forward to your support for the bill, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u113	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 1 AAA. Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 1546.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u114	It aims to clarify certain concepts in the environmental code. At present, the circular economy is defined as opposed to the linear model, which would have to be overcome by limiting the consumption of resources. I propose to include in our law the concept of "permacircular economy", which refers to an economy that respects the capacity to renew resources and the limits of the planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u115	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u116	You are right to want to clarify the concepts that we are using, Mrs. Batho. However, the circular economy, which is referred to in the text, refers to a model whose objective is to produce goods and services in a sustainable manner by limiting consumption and waste of resources. Permaculture, to which your amendment refers in part, and even more so permacircular economy, are interesting concepts but still subject to many controversies and lack of stable definition. Therefore, as we said in committee, it does not seem appropriate to include them in the law: unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u117	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u118	I know, Mrs. Batho, this notion of "permacircular economy" dear to you and Dominique Bourg. You have detailed it and I think it's important, but for having experienced it, I know how difficult the very expression of "circular economy" can already be to grasp for our fellow citizens, for lack of familiarity with current language. To make it even more complicated by speaking of "permacicularity" does not seem to me to be fruitful or useful, even if we fully subscribe, of course, to the objectives that this interesting notion suggests. I also know that you support the circular economy, which you said at the time you were a minister, not only covers waste management but also the product life cycle and eco-design. I also intend to open up the prospect of a framework law on the circular economy. We share the same objective, Madam Member: what I think you and I want to do, without speaking in your place, is to make it as operational and as concrete as possible. That is the spirit of this bill. You will understand, therefore, that I am expressing an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u119	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u120	Interestingly, Delphine Batho's amendment would have significant consequences. Title IV of the 2015 law on the energy transition for green growth defines, I would remind you, the circular economy as we conceive it in France. If we were to change our terms, we would have to work on redefinition. If the reflection on this matter is to be continued, I think it is best to stick to the concept as defined in the 2015 law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u121	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 1548.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u122	I do not think we can talk about controversy on this issue, but I hear the argument that it is not ripe and that it is better not to disturb things, at a time when we are still struggling to develop the circular economy. The term "permacircular", if it is not familiar to the general public, is nevertheless clearer to me, with respect to intent and content. Amendments Nos 1548 and 1548 leave aside the terminological debate in favour of the content, specifying that the objective of the circular economy is "to achieve a neutral ecological footprint within the framework of respect for the planetary limits".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u123	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u124	Your amendment, Mrs Batho, seeks to ensure that the limits of the planet are respected with a view to achieving a neutral ecological footprint through the circular economy. However, it seems to me that these issues are part of a more comprehensive environmental policy. I am not sure of the added value of such precision in a definition of circular economy: unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u125	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u126	Article L. 110-1-1 of the Environmental Code already incorporates, Mrs Batho, the objective you are aiming for through your amendment. This is also the objective of the text itself, but I am not opposed to seeing it repeated here: wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u127	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u128	I thank the Secretary of State for this wisdom. This amendment, the rapporteur, would, in my opinion, provide a useful clarification. It sets out the objective of a neutral ecological footprint, i.e. a consumption equivalent to the resources of one planet per year, against three planets today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u129	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 1549.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u130	I am aware of the legal problems that this amendment poses, but it seems to me to be politically important: it tends to replace the word 'waste', in all its occurrences within the environmental code, with the word'resources'. I would also like to thank the colleagues who voted for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u131	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u132	Replace the word "waste" with the word "resources" could lead to a whole series of harmful confusions. According to the Environmental Code, waste refers to "any residue of a production, processing or use process, any substance, material, product or, more generally, any abandoned personal property or its holder destinies to abandonment". In other words, everything abandoned is waste. However, it is not unusable, as it is or after modification. Only something called "ultimate waste" is really unusable: it must then be stored in order to avoid pollution of the environment. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u133	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u134	You stressed from the outset, Mrs Batho, the problems of legism that would arise from your amendment. I fully agree with you that the objective, which is at the very heart of the bill, is that all waste be a resource; But that is precisely why we need, legally, the concept of "waste", because it places the responsibility for its future on the person who produces it. It thus enables this future to be framed through specific management, traceability and control obligations. In fact, waste can be considered a resource since 1972 and the MIT – Massachusetts Institute of Technology report. But, despite the work that has now been done for several decades, we continue to refer to the concept of "waste" because it allows, I said, to impose responsibilities, to sanction infringements, to ensure management and traceability. In the spirit, as I have said many times publicly, waste is nevertheless a resource, we agree. However, you will understand what leads me here to give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u135	You convinced me, Madam Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u136	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u137	At one point, the law will have to reflect the expression of thought. Speaking of "resource" management rather than "waste" in the current language is not annoyed. I am aware of the technical work involved, including with regard to certain European directives, but it will have to be done someday.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u138	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 515.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u139	"Who doesn't have the means of his ambitions has all the worries," said Talleyrand, the great man of our history who lived next to my constituency. That is what I hear from you here, through article L. 541-49 of the Environmental Code, to which I referred in the general discussion. Under this article, the Government is required to submit to Parliament an annual and public report on the implementation of the national waste prevention and management policy. However, this report, according to the services of the Assembly, has never been submitted since 1992.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u140	He must not be the only one...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u141	At a time when we are looking at an important text on the circular economy and on waste treatment, I think we should be able to have all the elements that are useful to our thinking. This is, of course, an appeal amendment: it is not intended to be adopted. However, if the Government and its administration do not intend to apply the law, why not remove this article from the environmental code? Parliament, I think I am speaking for my colleagues on this point, needs as many elements as possible to inform its thinking. We would therefore like to obtain this report.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u142	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u143	You are right, Mrs Auconia, we would like to know what happened to this report. On its very subject, however, we can build on the results of the national waste prevention plan every six years. The opinion is therefore unfavorable, although I remain interested in the question of what is happening to this report.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u144	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u145	I can only regret that this report has never been submitted, Mrs Auconia. However, I assure you that transparency in waste management is not set aside, on the contrary. The departments of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition are particularly committed to this issue, and these are not just words: in accordance with the reporting obligation of the European Union, they are indeed bringing back public data, which is therefore freely accessible. On the other hand, within the framework of the Public Action 2022 administration improvement programme, various tools have been put in place to collect data on waste management. Again, the bill seeks to ensure transparency in this sector that is at its core. That is why, Mrs Auconia, I thank you for insisting on the subject. If I express an unfavorable opinion on your amendment, of which I understand that it was an appeal, I fully share the spirit of this: this is reflected in a series of concrete measures aimed at combating the opacity of a sector which, as you have pointed out, has been living in the shadows for too many years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u146	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u147	Several other reports, provided for by the Green Growth Energy Transition Act of 17 August 2015, have also not been submitted. It is necessary to know whether the Government intends to produce them: they would have been useful to us in reviewing this bill and can still help us move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u148	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u149	Since it is not intended to be adopted, I withdraw my amendment. Beyond the desired report here, IDU Members, Action and Independents will defend an amendment to open up waste management data so that we all have access to the same information.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u151	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 321, 635 and 1240. Mr Pauget's Amendment No 321 is being defended. Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 635.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u152	Article 1 AA, as originally drafted, set the target of reducing the overall volume of household waste to 15% between 2020 and 2030. Instead, the Commission chose to retain the period from 2010 to 2030. In recent years, however, it appears that the production of household waste is increasing significantly. The aim of this amendment is therefore to maintain the period chosen by the committee, but to increase the target of reducing the quantities of household waste to 20% – a goal that can be fully achieved since the Government says it is arming itself, with this text, to reduce the quantity of waste.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u153	Amendment No 1240 by Mr Paul-André Colombani is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u154	As a first step, we want to set a course. I have heard Mr Garot invite us to set ambitious and realistic goals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u155	And to plan ways!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u156	Here we are talking about the reduction in the volume of household waste. Between 2010, our base year, and 2016, this decrease was 7.3%, but in a context of economic slowdown. Since 2017, economic activity has resumed and the volume of waste has increased by 2 to 3%. If we were to meet the Commission's target of reducing waste by 15% between 2010 and 2030, that would be a big step. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u157	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u158	Your amendment, Mr Wulfranc, sets a target for reducing household waste by 20% between 2010 and 2030. We propose to set it at 15%. Why? Simply because we want to stick to realistic goals. Indeed, waste production has fallen, but less thanks to our wonderful policy of prevention and reduction, even if the departments of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition are doing a remarkable job, than to an economic slowdown, as the rapporteur pointed out. We need to set ambitious goals that can be achieved. That is why we are proposing this rate of 15%, especially since this target concerns all the waste produced, whether it is household waste or is the result of economic activity – the latter accounting for 80% of the total. That is why I express an unfavorable opinion, even if we share, beyond the philosophy of these amendments, the objective that is yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u159	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u160	I regret that Dominique Potier is not present...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u161	He's coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u162	... because he often quotes Edgard Pisani, who said in particular: "Let us stop always highlighting the difficulty of doing things and rather take into account, above all, the need to do them. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u163	This formula fully applies to pension reform!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u164	I have before me three amendments, Nos 1253, 1339 and 636, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 1253.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u165	We want to set a much more ambitious target for reducing waste generation by the construction and public works sector – BTP. The latter accounts for 70% of all waste in France; 93% of this waste is inert waste recovered at more than 65%, mainly in road underlays and quarry embankments. We have talked a lot about this in committee, and the vast majority of this waste is neither recyclable nor reuseable nor recoverable. Worse still, they're potentially toxic. In addition, taking into account the carbon impact of building materials and the lifespan of buildings in operation, this sector alone accounts for more than 40% of the carbon balance. At a time when we need to move towards eco-construction, it is very important to think about the consumption of non-renewable resources and the end of life of all materials. Now, for example, cement production is being relocated, creating a major social challenge around cement plants. It is therefore very important to show political will and to operate this bifurcation towards a model valuing artisanal know-how, to get out of a model harmful not only to the planet, but also to the workers, since the construction sector mobilizes 80% of the subcontracting, sometimes with twenty-two levels of subcontracting on the yards. We must therefore be politically up to date.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u166	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 1339.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u167	We also want to be ambitious – although it is probably less than Mrs Panot – by raising the target of reducing the production of waste from economic activities to 15%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u168	Amendment No 636 by Mr André Chassaigne is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u169	You are referring to the BTP in the explanatory memorandum to your amendment, Mrs Panot, when you are asking for a 50% reduction in the production of waste related to all economic activities. Why not 100 percent while you're at it? I think your proposal is somewhat unrealistic. As far as the targets are concerned, we have set the reduction of waste from economic activities at 5% in committee. You are proposing, Mr Lambert, to raise this rate to 15%, and you, Mr Chassaigne, to 10%, while the national waste prevention programme of the ADEME 2014-2020 included a target to stabilize this waste. So a 5% reduction, as we decided in committee, seems more reasonable to me until we measure the effects of the law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u170	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u171	You say, Mrs. Panot, that we must be politically up to the challenge. I fully agree with you that we must do so in the area of waste reduction in the construction industry and, more broadly, waste related to economic activities. As far as the BTP is concerned, we meet the expectations of the French and local elected representatives. You have like me in mind the dramatic death of the mayor of Signes; So it will not have escaped you that we have created, while it was expected for decades by the actors, a polluter-pays sector, the sector with extended responsibility of the producers – REP – in the construction sector, which aims to bring about very concrete but also binding solutions – which responds to one of your legitimate concerns. The REP sector will allow us to develop re-employment, repair, but also the recycling of real industrial sectors in the construction waste sector. Thus, the upstream diagnosis will be generalized at the time of the deconstruction – not the demolition – of the buildings. That is why I express an unfavorable opinion on these amendments. We propose very concrete solutions in order to achieve our objective, much broader than the one you want to pursue, since it includes all economic players and not just those of the BTP.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u172	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u173	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] I explained in the explanatory memorandum to my amendment, Madam rapporteur, why I was mainly referring to the BTP: this sector produces the majority of waste from industry. So I think it makes sense to insist on it. Then I prefer to be given arguments rather than being sent back the ball by saying, "Why not propose a 100% reduction in waste while you are there? You read, like me, the scientific reports that alert us: one considers that we are only twelve years old to act, another, more recent, that we must fork for a year and a half. It is therefore urgent and, I repeat, I would prefer to be opposed to arguments, as the Secretary of State has just done, rather than to be laughed at when I present my amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u174	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u175	It's true, though. It is indeed a good thing, Madam Secretary of State, to set up a line at REP, which has been waiting for years. But it is still better not to produce the waste in question. And, for the sake of the matter, the co-constructions made of wood-earth-pails allow almost infinite reuse of the materials and do not have to deal with these tons of waste that we produce constantly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u176	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u177	It is a good thing that the committee has set a target for reducing the production of waste of economic origin instead of the stabilization planned earlier. However, this objective is really insufficient when we know that household and similar waste accounts for about 10% of the total. It is clear that it is in the area of waste from economic activities that efforts must be increased, particularly as Mrs Panot rightly points out, waste from the BTP. They are considerable and not traceable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u178	It's going to change!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u179	It is to be hoped, because traceability currently covers only 15% of the waste in the BTP – we don't know where the rest goes. To know that, we would have to set a much more ambitious goal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u180	I ask for the floor, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u181	There have already been two speeches on these amendments, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u182	I call Mrs Sarles to support Amendment No. 2160.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u183	This article aims to reduce waste generation by 2030. We propose an intermediate mid-term objective, i.e. in 2025. This would allow us, on the basis of the results achieved by that date, to possibly commit additional resources to meet the 2030 target.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u184	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u185	All the means are already provided for in the text. Moreover, we are not sure that the acceleration movement that we hope to launch with this law will already have had its effect in 2025. That is why we do not wish to set an intermediate objective at this stage. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u186	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u187	While the Committee on Sustainable Development agreed on a 15% reduction in household waste between 2010 and 2030, you are proposing a 10% reduction in 15 years, and then a 5% reduction in just five years. Of course, we will not reach the target set in the Green Growth Energy Transition Act – a 10% reduction in household and similar waste between 2010 and 2020 – next year, but we will not be far from it. Taking into account the measures contained in this text, the 10% reduction is likely to be achieved by 2025. It therefore seems to me preferable and more ambitious not to split the target introduced in committee by 2030. In the absence of a withdrawal, I shall therefore issue an opinion which is unfavourable to your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u188	Mrs. Nathalie Sarles has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u189	To the extent that I am not the first signatory of the amendment, I maintain it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u190	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 178.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u191	Proposed by Marie-Christine Dalloz, this amendment is based on the fact that France put about a third of its plastic waste in landfill in 2018, which is a waste of resources in terms of material and energy management. Through this practice, France is far behind other European countries which, prohibiting the landfilling of such waste, manage to recover more than 95% of it. Unlike ultimate waste, they are energy-recyclable or energy-recoverable. Through this amendment, we therefore propose to ban the landfilling of plastic waste from 1 January 2025, when the Government aims to achieve the target of 100 per cent of recycled plastics.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u192	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u193	If we really see this goal, i.e. a ban on landfilling plastic in 2025, it would mean that the plastic garbage bags used for household waste could no longer be landfilled. Rather than such a ban, which does not appear to be operational, we have provided in Article 1 ADA for the provision of proof of five flows prior to entry into landfill. This incentive approach seems to us to be more interesting. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u194	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u195	I will deliver the same opinion as the rapporteur for the same reasons, with some clarifications. First of all, we will increase and improve the possibilities of sorting at source, whether for businesses or households. Secondly, there are plans to change taxation, including an increase in the general tax on polluting activities – TGAP. Finally, I would point out that it is sometimes very difficult to differentiate the fraction of plastic that can be found in an existing waste. In order to achieve a very laudable objective which we share, I think you are proposing a measure which is not very operational.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u196	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 433 and 2306. Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 433.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u197	Article L. 541-1 of the Environmental Code referred to reuse and reuse as the objectives of the national policy for the prevention and management of household waste, without, however, setting a numerical objective. This text provides for a rate of 5 per cent, which we propose to increase to 10 per cent. I take this opportunity to return to the previous debate, because I wanted to withdraw Amendment No 1339 in favour of Amendment No 636 by Mr Chassaigne, but you did not give me the floor, Madam President. In response to the rapporteur's or others' arguments, I repeat what I said in my general speech on the text: there is an urgent need, because in thirty years we will be 10 billion on a planet that will not have taken another ton. The figures must be up to the urgency, that is, they must be ambitious, as is this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u198	I call Mr Guillaume Garot to support Amendment No. 2306.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u199	The idea is to strengthen our ambition for the reuse of household waste, because we only reuse 2.5% – less than 1 million tonnes out of more than 37 million. We therefore propose to increase the 5% rate provided for in the text to 10%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u200	Quite simply!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u201	Yes, ma'am. This would save money on the cost of waste collection and management, while creating tens of thousands of jobs in our country. That's the winner-win-win, Madam Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u202	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u203	If we are all very committed to speeding up this process, we are nevertheless faced with a difficulty: the precise calculation of the share of re-employment. Does the product come from a repair, from a purchase on an online platform, in a resourcing shop? Despite this difficulty, we must define a path and set a realistic and computable objective. European work is under way to enable a better assessment of the phenomenon and to define a method of calculation. I think that we must wait for this methodology before setting objectives that we may not be able to achieve. In the absence of a withdrawal, I shall therefore express an unfavorable opinion, even if we of course share the objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u204	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u205	The three-time winning strategy is exactly what we want.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u206	In that case, you will be in favour of the amendment and it will be adopted!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u207	Moreover, we are already implementing this strategy with you, since you were in the Committee on Sustainable Development. I am not going to sum up here all the objectives in terms of re-employment assigned to existing REPs or which we are going to create, particularly in the construction sector, nor to detail the future diagnosis of BTP. Instead of describing this bill as a whole, I would like to tell you that we want to act on a sector-by-sector basis, to set the stage for moving towards the goal of reducing the waste you want to achieve. We support the ambition, but at this stage we find more realistic the 5% reduction rate on which we agreed during the debates in committee. As you share the ambition and method of this text, you will understand that I invite you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u208	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u209	Madam Secretary of State, your point was pretty clear. On the other hand, Madam rapporteur, you are insisting on the lack of measuring tools when we are not asking for an immediate calculation. We want our goal to be achieved by the date set out in the bill, that is, to improve our performance by 10% in a decade or so. In the meantime, we will have the means to consolidate the measurement tools. Either we agree on the objective and we need to be more ambitious, knowing that the measuring tool will be available in a year or two, or we do not agree on the objective and ambition and we need to start the debate on this. In any event, I am maintaining my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u210	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u211	We could agree with the objective pursued by this amendment, but, as in the case of the previous amendments, we have a concern which we mentioned during the debates in committee: the lack of impact studies to determine what means are needed to achieve the aim. The same applies to the previous debate, where we were proposed to raise the rate from 5% to 10% to 15%. All this is very interesting intellectually, but we could discuss these objectives more easily if we had documented impact assessments to assess our ability to achieve them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u212	Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u213	In the bill, each REP channel is assigned a re-employment objective. With this pragmatic method, the objectives will be more likely to be achieved: each REP sector is subject to approval, a specification, and State control. Although ambitious, your goal is a little diffuse. Acting by channel will be more effective in reaching it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u214	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 434.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u215	We propose to supplement Article 74 of the Law of 17 August 2015 on the energy transition for green growth with a sentence which reads: "The trajectory of this decrease, expressed in tonnes per capita, is specified by regulation. » This provision would be consistent with the texts we adopted in 2014 and 2015, ensuring that France sets itself a goal of controlling the consumption of resources and raw materials: in 2030, we must not consume more natural resources than in 2010, to the nearest tonne. It should be noted that between 2010 and 2030, we will have had about 30% economic growth and 7 million more people. This objective, either we erase it – some could propose an amendment in this direction – or we respect it. Our colleague Sophie Auconia referred to the reports that do not exist, the objectives that we are not even talking about. Far from abolishing the objective, I am proposing, on the contrary, to enable the Government to better control this policy by defining a tonnage per capita of material consumed. It will vary between 2010 and 2030, as France will consume as many raw materials as it does with an additional 7 million inhabitants. We can't stay in an in-between: there's no point in setting goals if we don't even talk about them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u216	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u217	Domestic consumption of materials per capita is a useful indicator of the more or less resource-efficient behaviour of economic actors. Between 1988 and 2008, domestic consumption of materials per capita was stable, at around 15 tons per capita. Since 2008, it has declined, mainly due to the construction crisis, to about 12 tons per capita in recent years. While useful, this indicator evolves primarily on the basis of other policies, such as the future REP building sector. Should it be made an objective in itself by decree? I'm not sure. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u218	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u219	Mr Lambert, you rightly insist on an article in the law on the energy transition for green growth, which is indeed very important. However, the precision you want to insert is derived from the objective of increasing the ratio between GDP and domestic consumption of materials. This is even the whole purpose of section 74 of this Act. As it stands, article 74 is sufficiently ambitious and precise that it is not necessary to add it by decree. Knowing your commitment to a concrete ecological transition, honourable Member, I think you will agree with me that it is more appropriate to act than to write. That is why I shall express an opinion which is unfavourable to your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u220	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u221	The answers of the rapporteur and the Secretary of State are not quite the same – each is in its own role, which is quite normal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u222	The review of this bill, which will take place over the next ten days, is a major event for the future – as you have reminded us, Madam Secretary of State, as many of us do. It provides us with an opportunity to affirm our will and ability to respond to the challenges of the depletion of the planet's resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u223	I thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for recalling France's 2030 target of reducing the consumption of resources so as not to consume a ton of raw materials more than in 2010, for a population of 7 million more.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u224	That has already been said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u225	In that connection, it would have been good if the Government had defined, by regulation, a tonnage of material per capita. The tonnages you have indicated, the rapporteur, must be further reduced if we are to achieve the target that the House set in 2015. Without effective piloting tools, this may not be possible. That is why it is necessary to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u226	Amendment No 1002 by Mr Matthieu Orphelin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u227	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u228	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u229	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u230	Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u231	Mr Lambert, is the amendment withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u232	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u233	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 340.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u234	The bill requires the target of 100% recycled plastic by January 1, 2025. The amendment proposes to replace the word "attack" with the words "stretch towards", as it is not possible, as things stand at present, to achieve this objective, in particular because some plastics contain substances whose recycling is prohibited for reasons of hygiene and safety.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u235	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u236	We share your position, Mr. Descoeur. It is impossible to recycle 100% of the plastic. You mentioned reasons for hygiene and safety, but there are also health reasons, such as the presence of brominated plastics. I am therefore pleased that you have tabled this amendment, on which I am expressing a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u237	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u238	Same argument. The circular economy roadmap published in April 2018 used the words "stretch towards". So I will give a wise advice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u239	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 60 and 92. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 60.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u240	As the previous amendment has been adopted, it is no longer appropriate. He proposed adding the words "or valued" after the word "recycled". I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u241	I call Mr Bricout to support Amendment No. 92.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u242	This is an identical amendment, which I wish to maintain. Currently, only 40% of plastics can be recycled, although it can be said that 100% of the packaging is recyclable. It will also not be possible to recycle all plastics in 2025, some of which contain additives to give them specific properties related to their use. That is why I propose to insert the words "or valued" after the word "recycled".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u243	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u244	Adding "or valued" after "recycled" would completely alter the balance of the item, as this would mean incinerating anything that is not recycled to achieve the objective. This is clearly not what is covered by the circular economy's roadmap. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u245	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u246	This amendment leads to a contradiction of the spirit of the bill, which is not to promote the development of incineration, a fortiori that of plastics. For this reason, close to the one put forward by the rapporteur, my opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u247	Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u248	I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u249	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 1254.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u250	The target of 100% recycled plastic by January 1, 2025 is not realistic. Let's ask ourselves about the number of productions that use plastic in France today! They are at the origin of plastic pollution, a scourge that we all know and all...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u251	It is important to clarify in the bill that only bio-based and biodegradable plastic products can be placed on the market in 2025. This would be consistent with the Government's stated goal of ending the scourge of plastic pollution, which even affects our rivers, as we have learned recently.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u252	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u253	Taking out disposable plastic, reducing the consumption and production of plastic at the source and tending towards 100% recycled plastic are precisely our objectives. The bill contains several concrete measures to achieve this. We intend to put an end to single-use plastics by 2040 at the latest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u254	However, your amendment would be difficult to implement. Indeed, the biosourced origin of a plastic does not mean that the polymer is biodegradable and, conversely, a biodegradable plastic is not necessarily biodegradable. Limiting plastics to biodegradable and bio-sourced plastics by 2025 would have an extremely restrictive effect. The amendment is not realistic. That is why I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u255	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u256	We have, I believe, the same objective, Madam Member. Nevertheless, your amendment implies that plastics made up of vegetable material may degrade in nature and therefore constitute a solution to the problem of dependence on plastics. To that, I would like to give two answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u257	First of all, I do not believe that alternatives should be systematically sought. It seems important to me, then, to stress that bio-sourced plastics remain plastics and that their environmental impact raises many questions. A recent ADEME study showed that biodegradation of bio-sourced plastics, mainly in the form of composting, would lead to the production of microplastics in compost, which would of course be counterproductive. In order to decide on the existence of this risk of dispersion of microplastics in the environment, I have referred the matter to ANSES, the National Agency for the Safety of Food, the Environment and the Work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u258	I would ask you to withdraw the amendment, Madam Member. Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u259	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 1135.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u260	This is an amendment of consistency. Of course, Amendment No 340 by Mr Descoeur, which replaces the word "attack" with the words "stretch towards", was adopted a few moments ago, but how can we give ourselves the target of 100% recycled plastic by 1 January 2025 while maintaining the authorisation to use non-recyclable plastic on 1 January 2026?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u261	The amendment proposes to bring consistency to the text by prohibiting from 1 January 2026 any non-recyclable plastic. If we continue to allow it, the target of 100% recycled plastic by January 1, 2025 will remain at the stage of beautiful lyrics...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u262	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u263	First of all, I would like to point out that recycling of a material is part of a circular economy principle only if the loop can be reproduced infinity. This is the case with glass, but not plastic: the process of recycling plastic severely degrades it; So we can't reproduce it infinity. The best plastic is the one we don't produce. The aim is therefore to gradually move out of single-use plastic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u264	As for a total ban, I believe that it is necessary to leave it to the Government, in consultation with the actors, to present us with a strategy to combat plastic, as provided for in section 1 AE of the bill. This strategy will be published together with the national waste prevention plan, the next edition of which is scheduled for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u265	I invite you to withdraw your amendment, Mr Lambert. Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u266	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u267	Your intention is commendable, honourable Member, but the scope of the amendment is far too broad for it to apply. I will take a concrete example, that of the syringes used in the medical sector: it would be boring if we could not eliminate them. In addition, I believe that it is more effective to set up an operational bonus-malus system, i.e. a system for modulation of eco-contributions. The amendment covers too wide a field and within too short a time limit to be applicable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u268	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u269	The rapporteur and the Secretary of State have just acknowledged this half-word: the target of 100% recycled plastic by 1 January 2025 does not exist! "It is not possible to recycle such plastic"; "The actors are not ready yet",... If we set a target of 100% recycled plastic by January 1, 2025, we cannot accept that by 2026, a non-recyclable plastic can be placed on the market!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u270	This does not necessarily mean that medical syringes will be recycled, Madam Secretary of State, but that they must be made of recyclable material. In 2025–26, it will be necessary to check whether they can be recycled or whether they should be cremated as a precautionary measure to avoid any health risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u271	I come back to the amendment. If the French market allows non-recyclable plastic in 2026, how could the 100% recycled plastic target be achieved? There's something here that I don't understand, or I don't speak French anymore...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u272	Amendment No 1425 by Mr Michel Vialay is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u273	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u274	This amendment falls under Article 9, which will deal with the composition of packagings. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u275	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u276	I call for a more transparent and open sharing of information than is proposed here. I invite you to withdraw the amendment. Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u277	I call Mrs Pompili to support Amendment No. 2272.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u278	Article 1 ADA, introduced in committee by the La République en marche group, is based on a virtuous logic, since it prohibits producers from burying their waste without sorting it out. It is therefore consistent with history and is consistent with the bill: from now on, it will no longer be possible to destroy materials without having recovered everything that is recoverable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u279	My amendment proposes to complete this provision by pushing the logic to the end and specifying that without prior sorting, it is not only forbidden to bury, but also to incinerate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u280	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u281	Very favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u282	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u283	This clarification is not only useful, but it further reinforces the operational nature of the text. Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u284	Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u285	Members of the La République group will support this amendment, which complements an article that they have introduced into the bill. The amendment meets one of the objectives of the roadmap for the circular economy, the FREC: to improve the sorting and collection of waste from companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u286	I would point out that businesses, outside the construction sector, are responsible for 700 kilograms of waste per capita each year. They must therefore ensure that their waste is carefully sorted in parallel with the reduction at source. The margin of progression of sorting at the workplace is important. The article goes in the right direction, as it sends a strong signal to economic actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u287	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit has the floor to support Amendment No. 1951.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u288	This amendment, which we have worked with urban France, aims to introduce more transparency in waste management by making available to all users the annual waste collection and recovery certificate issued to waste producers. The aim is to improve compliance with the decree of 10 March 2016 laying down various adaptation and simplification provisions in the field of waste prevention and management.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u289	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u290	The online posting of the attestation on a dedicated platform would require bringing together all the actors around the table, which would be premature or, in any case, would take a lot of work. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u291	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u292	There is certainly an urgent need for companies to take responsibility for sorting out five flows. I have had the opportunity not only to say so, but to demand it from certain companies, particularly in the fast food sector. The bill also includes a series of measures that improve the implementation of five-flow sorting and source sorting. But your amendment, Mr President, refers to a certificate provided for at the regulatory level; the measure contained therein cannot therefore be included in the legislative part of the Environmental Code. For this reason, I ask you to withdraw it, otherwise I can only be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u293	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u294	I withdraw the amendment, hoping that the appeals of the Secretary of State for Enterprise will be heard and that waste management will become more transparent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u295	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u296	The ambition of Article 1 AD in environmental and health matters is new enough to be underlined in view of the objective of reducing the number of single-use plastic packagings placed on the market: the article aims at the end of the all-disposal that affects our environment and our planet, but also our health. It is more than urgent to act on the plastic pollution that affects our soil, water, food and ecosystems and whose consequences for biodiversity and human health are obvious. Plastic has invaded our daily lives for several decades. In this regard, a few figures deserve to be recalled: world plastic production increased from 1.5 million tonnes in the 1960s to 360 million tonnes today. In addition – as you recalled, Madam Secretary of State – we ingest 5 grams of plastic each week, the equivalent of a credit card. This environmental and health issue is strongly emphasized in the report I presented with Claire Pitollat following the fact-finding mission on endocrine disruptors in plastic containers, chaired by Michel Vialay. In this regard, I repeat, it is absolutely necessary to act and to set clear objectives. The La République group is therefore proud to propose an amendment to Article 1 AD, which is a major step forward. The aim is not to set a target expressed as a percentage reduction in the number of single-use plastics, but to define an end-of-market trajectory for all single-use plastic packagings by 2040. I hope that it will be voted unanimously. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I repeat, the objective is not to reduce the number of plastic packagings, but to eliminate them from the market. France must remain at the forefront of this crucial approach for health and the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u297	On Amendment No 2357, the second rectification, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. We come to the amendments. Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 132.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u298	This amendment, which we owe the initiative to Emmanuelle Anthoine, tends to delete the article on the grounds that it tends to overtranspose European law without prior consultation or impact assessment. In addition, the scope of its objective is defined in an imprecise, very approximate manner, creating great uncertainty for industry, even though European texts only concern products that are likely to become wild waste. In addition to the danger of undermining the competitiveness of our economy, we must of course take care of the substitution effects which could prove to be much more harmful to the environment than the products originally targeted: the risk is the development of non-recyclable packaging which does not comply with European directives. Above all – as you know, Madam Secretary of State – such restrictions could jeopardize the innovations of the packaging sector, which represent a real asset and reflect the know-how of our producers, threatened to be annihilated to the benefit of foreign actors less concerned about the environment than they do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u299	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u300	Nearly 2.3 million single-use plastic household packagings are placed on the market each year in France. Single-use plastics account for more than 50% of the marine litter we find on our beaches or in the oceans. They are also responsible for the emission of thousands of tonnes of COlors from their incineration. We can no longer tolerate this scourge. The so-called single-use plastic directive adopted last June prohibits straws, cutlery and plates, coffee "touillettes", balloon rods and cotton-tiges from 2021 onwards. It is included in clause 10 of the bill. However, we must go further and set ourselves the goal of the final release of single-use plastic by 2040 at the latest – we will come there in a moment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u301	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u302	In fact, what you're asking us here, Member of Parliament, is to question the entire bill! I hear some of the concerns you express; I can tell you that the Government is very attentive to this. But in the long run, our will is to move out of single-use plastics, and beyond plastics, to profoundly change our way of production and consumption to a society of re-use and re-use. This commitment is on the circular economy roadmap, which is the result of a very broad consultation with all stakeholders. It is also the result of France's work at European level, particularly in the context of the circular economy package, and is reflected in very concrete initiatives such as the national pact on plastic packaging, signed by thirteen large-scale companies, which gives them the target of 100% recyclable packaging by 2025. In addition to these steps, a series of measures form one of the pillars of this bill. I will not detail the high costs to the community of cleaning up the consequences of plastic pollution on our streets, nor its extreme effects on biodiversity – nearly 200 million plastic bottles are found in nature every year, and several billion cigarette butts, whose filter contains plastic. I could explain to you for hours the reasons – I say it without any aggressiveness – why I absolutely disagree with the spirit of your amendment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u303	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u304	All of us here are aiming for the same goal. The purpose of the amendment was to underline the need for an impact assessment, to propose that all actors in the sector should be involved in the process, and to raise a question of timing. I hear all your arguments, Madam Secretary of State, and I am absolutely not opposed to them. But the article is very sharp and perhaps ahead of what is now possible. That is why we wanted it to be deleted. However, I repeat to you – be reassured – that we have the same objective as you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u305	I have before me an amendment No 2357, the second rectification, which is the subject of two sub-amendments, Nos 2527 and 2525. Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u306	We observe it every day; As we have already said, let us repeat: the effects of plastic pollution on the environment, biodiversity, health, as well as the images of plastic continents that are multiplying in our oceans, have become unbearable. As I pointed out during the general discussion, one of the priorities of the LaREM Group is to reduce the production of our waste at source, particularly as a result of plastic packaging. In committee, we have translated it into various measures, and we have announced that we will submit to the public debate a provision allowing us to leave single-use plastic within twenty years, by assigning a clear trajectory at the end of its placing on the market. All packages are concerned: food containers, bottles, bottles, all those who invade our closets; all, whether for domestic or industrial use. The overall trajectory is accompanied by re-use, re-use and recycling targets for the period 2021-2025, then for a period of five years until 2040.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u307	Mrs Véronique Riotton has the floor to support sub-amendments Nos 2527 and 2525, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u308	The first is that it is before 1 January 2022 that the national strategy must be defined by regulation. Under the second strategy, every five years a publication of the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices is published, allowing for a public debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u309	What is the committee's opinion on the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u310	Favourable subject to the adoption of both sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u311	What is the Government's opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u312	The amendment sets a date – 2040 – for stopping the placing on the market of disposable plastics: it goes well beyond the division by four by 2040 of the number of these plastics adopted in the Senate. It allows France to send its European partners and the rest of the world a very powerful and very concrete signal, which I will even call historic: we are resolutely committed to the fight against disposable plastic, because its proliferation leads to massive pollution and a considerable reduction of biodiversity, especially in the oceans, whose consequences are visible everywhere, in both emerging and developed countries. The amendment makes tangible the vision inherent in the bill: the transition from all-disposable society to all-reusable society. It also sends a powerful message to industry: single use cannot be the future of plastic in the long term. It is not a question of making plastic bashing beast and villain: of course, plastic has virtues; But to be sustainable, its applications need to be refocused on a few uses with higher added value – aeronautical, medical, automotive and, sometimes still, construction. In committee, I asked for the amendment to be withdrawn along the same lines to allow its approach to be reworked. Indeed, we did not want to remain at a long-term goal, friendly and even ambitious, but in total, only incantatory: we wanted the objective to be accompanied by a strategy for steering the process. I therefore welcome the work done since the debate in committee and the resulting proposal on the governance of single-use plastic release, along the lines of what already exists with regard to multi-annual energy programming and the national low-carbon strategy. For it is the same kind of transition that we are dealing with here, and it also calls for a concrete plan, the principle of which has proved its worth, ambitious, realistic, with a real method. It is a question of defining five-year plans with realistic objectives and credible solutions with the industrial sectors – whose fate I know is a cause for concern, in particular on the right side of the House – and with consumer and environmental protection associations. Thus, by defining a method and milestones, one will avoid remaining at a long-term goal that will be only a pious wish, and one will realize that one has missed it when one suddenly wakes up two years before the deadline. That is why we want to draw inspiration from the methods that have proved their worth. We can't get out of the disposable plastic overnight. First of all, to speak only of France, the subject is still being debated: some tell us that they still need it, others that it is intended only for specific purposes. On the other hand, let's say it clearly and without squealing, we have to get out of it, and we're going to do it. But the transition to 100% re-used packaging must be arranged in 2040. That's our vision. Plastics will also have a role to play in this transition. This is why the priority for the next decade must be to achieve 100% recycled plastic: on the one hand, this target involves 100% collected plastic, as much less in nature; On the other hand, it is necessary to eliminate the use of non-recyclable resins as soon as possible for household packaging, but also for industrial packaging. The abolition of the use of these resins must be carried out with a method, I repeat, because I am committed to it, that is to say, through a real industrial policy at French level, but also at European level – and more broadly, I said in committee, at world level. I recall that 100% recycled plastic is as much CO-economized as with the closure of our four coal-fired power plants that the ministry is working on. At the same time, it is about advancing re-employment, and this bill is contributing through different levers – which I will not describe again here, because I know dinner is coming. New services and associated business models – functional economy, user economy, etc. need to be stimulated in this regard. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I would point out that if the ministry to which I belong bears the title "the ecological and solidarity transition", it is because this transition must be seriously organized, otherwise cynicism will be created, leading ultimately to a refusal of public environmental policies, but also a rejection by those who would have to lose it. Let us organize so that the ecological transition is an object of solidarity that brings together rather than a factor of division that would actually cut France into two – whereas it is already in a myriad of isolates. By the purpose of this bill, one can set an example; by the method I have mentioned, one can continue to gather. I therefore welcome this amendment, which I fully support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u313	Is the Government also in favour of sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u314	Absolutely, because they correspond to the method that I advocate and reflect the involvement of the House, which we can only welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u315	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u316	It's bluffing, amazing! It is for twenty years, in 2040, the total removal of single-use plastic packaging in all linear! I will of course vote for this proposal to rewrite Article 1 AD and the sub-amendments. We could still have considered experimental territories where evolution would have been faster, Madam Secretary of State – I am thinking of the islands, where it is more urgent than on the continent to get rid of these single-use plastic packagings that sometimes cause tragedy for biodiversity. But when you say that non-recyclable resins will no longer be allowed, let me remind you that you have delivered an opinion against my amendment proposing to ban all non-recyclable plastics on 1 January 2026. Let me also ask myself about the usefulness of the instruction provided for in this text: the instruction for the recycling of the material will have only a lifetime limited to a few ten years, since it will only remain in the long run the instruction for re-use. Let us therefore remain focused on the implementation of the latter rather than on the illusion of a recycling policy. With regard to Article 10, let me finally point out that the law in force already provides for the prohibition on 1 January 2020 of many single-use plastic objects. But you want this provision to be postponed or even reduced by removing certain items from the list – I am thinking of plastic bowls and bowls that will continue to be used even when they are for single use. Let us be consistent to the end: I will vote for this amendment, but I am counting on you on the next single-use plastic appointments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u317	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u318	I would like to know whether only OPECST, the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices, is associated with the strategy of exiting the use of plastic, or whether it is Parliament as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u319	It's OPECST.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u320	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u321	As I understand it, this amendment proposes the total extinction of single-use plastic packaging in 2040 – including recycled plastic packaging, isn't it, Madam Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u322	Yes, but in 20 years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u323	For the moment, although I do not often agree with Mr Lambert, I find his argument relevant: what about the packing instructions for plastic bottles?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u324	We have to vote on my amendments, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u325	[[Smile]] Our convergence of views will no doubt end there, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u326	[[Smile]] We've got another ten days ahead of us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u327	Second observation: you had given an opinion against this amendment in committee invoking its incantatory nature; But I hear incantation in your explanations, especially when you say that France will send a powerful message to Europe. I would like our country to dictate its law to Europe in this area, as in others, but we still need to be realistic! But you are without hesitation in overtransposition, we will return to it in amendments that will follow, while the Government condemns it in many other areas. Moreover, you are sure that it will give the "la" to the whole of Europe! If it's not an incantatory speech, I don't know what it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u328	We come to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u329	I asked a question, I'd like an answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u330	I put to the vote Amendment No 2357, second rectification, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u331	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 57 Number of votes cast 53 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 47 Against 6
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u332	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-09-O1093.u333	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the draft law on combating waste and the circular economy. The meeting is adjourned.
