ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u1	First of all, I wish each and every one of you my best wishes for 2019. May this year be a year of peace, solidarity and prosperity for our country. The next item is the question to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u2	Mrs. Patricia Gallerneau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u3	Prime Minister, as you know, last week a wall of parpaings was erected in front of my family home. Act more ridiculous than serious. Then, an individual, for the time being under judicial control, threatened me with plasticization, "as in Corsica," he wrote. Many of us in this House are subjected to such abuse. I know that these facts are not representative of all yellow vests. I have always been a woman of dialogue and a local elected representative, like many of my MODEM colleagues, but the dialogue is condemned by these actions. "Violence begins where the word stops," wrote Marek Halter. Dialogue can and can only exist in order, in concertation, in calm and in listening. And we all wish to conduct this dialogue here! Beyond insults and derisory parpaings, I want to denounce the actions against our maltreated economy and the devastated businesses. The lost share of our GDP would have benefited the country as a whole. The ruining of the work of men and women leads to balance sheet deposits, dismissals and loss of income: more than we, their legitimate spokespersons, I want to highlight all these seriously penalized workers. Last week, the Government affirmed that, in the face of ultra-violence, the answer would now be ultra-close: I support this firmness, which is necessary for us to work together for a better future for all, through this great, unprecedented and ambitious debate launched by President Emmanuel Macron. In democracy, there is no contradiction between legitimacy and legality. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Prime Minister, how will you permanently stop these overflows and combine firmness and dialogue with the yellow vests?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u4	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u5	Before answering the question that you have just asked, allow me, Madam Member, to wish the entire national representation the best of personal and political health and of a fruitful contribution to our democratic life. These wishes are always a circumstance at the beginning of the year, but something tells me that they are probably even more necessary this year. Your question takes on a particular meaning in the moment we are living. With the threats you have been subjected to, especially through the construction of a wall of parpaings in front of your home – you always have to wonder about the people who build walls! – and that some 50 parliamentarians have also had to suffer, whether they are relatively insignificant acts such as inscriptions on posters or fronts, physical threats with bullets or rifle ammunition received at home, anonymous letters, scandalous in their content as in their principle, or questioning, sometimes physical and always threatening, is emerging something serious for our democracy. One could add to this picture the violence suffered by some members of the police and by journalists, and more generally by all those who, in the eyes of a small, totally decomplex minority, embody I do not know which system. In reality, these targeted persons embody the elected representation and freedom of the press – with its excesses and the criticisms that can sometimes be addressed to it – that is, consubstantial elements of our democratic system. That is why we cannot take these attacks lightly. We have therefore issued instructions to ensure that the perpetrators of these acts are systematically sought: some have been identified and will be brought to justice. It will be up to the judges to decide on their fate and I do not want to give the feeling of interfering in the proceedings, but I hope, personally, that the sanctions imposed, if any, will translate the attention that we all have to pay to the respect of our institutions and those who have the responsibility to embody them during their elected term. So you are giving me the opportunity to send a message of firmness again. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] Let me use words that I had already used in a question asked in December: it is up to all our compatriots to say that these behaviours are unspeakable and unacceptable. Law enforcement and magistrates are doing their job, and we cannot allow a dialogue between people who question institutions and law enforcement officials. We, as citizens, must say that our democracy is a precious and ever more fragile asset than we think. We must collectively defend it, pointing out what is unacceptable. I note that the condemnation of these acts is general, and I am pleased to hear that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u6	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u7	[[Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament rise and applaud at length – Members of the Government also applaud]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, to pay tribute, on behalf of you all, to the firefighters who gave their lives at the end of the previous week. [[Applause]] Let me also, on behalf of the Members of Parliament for Meurthe-et-Moselle, Lorraine and, I am sure, all of you, have an emotional thought for the crew of the Mirage 2000D at Air Force Base 133 Nancy-Ochey, which crashed last Wednesday. All are figures of the Republic. I thank the members of the Government for their actions and attitudes towards the professional and military communities affected. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] These figures of the Republic force us to a certain height, at the beginning of the year. I therefore announce with force and clarity that the members of the Socialist and related groups have taken the decision to engage fully, with demand and vigilance, in the great national debate. The situation requires us to do so. We will do so with vigilance. We will do so to listen to the French, to carry their word and to make our proposals. [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches as well as on several LT benches]] We will do so with demand, for two questions are troubling us. The first one is on the bottom. What are immigration and secularism doing in a two-month debate, even though the crisis is social, fiscal and territorial? Second question: why have we excluded such important subjects as the reform of financial capitalism, which the President of the Republic wanted us to leave during the vows he addressed to the French?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u8	What about immigration?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u9	In this spirit, why did you refuse an open site? Why did you refuse, during the parliamentary debates held in 2018, proposals to introduce transparency in holding companies or decent income gaps within companies? And I...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u10	Thank you, my colleague. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u11	Mr Potier, I will try to answer your question, even if the law of the gong, so to speak, has prevented you from completing it. First of all, I associate myself, very soberly and sincerely, with the comments you made about the two firefighters who died in the exercise of their mission and the two members of the French armed forces who died in the course of their training – certainly in very different circumstances. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, LT and on several benches of the SOC group. – Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne also applauds]] In replying earlier to Mrs Gallerneau, who asked me about the threats she had received, I could not help but visualize, as if put in parallel, the images of firefighters giving their lives to the service of the French and those of idiots with scandalous behavior covering the same firefighters who came to guarantee – at the service of the French – the safety of people and property. Mr. Potier, thank you for giving me the opportunity to pay a respectful tribute to the firefighters who died in the exercise of their mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u12	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups as well as on several benches of the LR group]] The fireman who's in a coma, it's not rocks he got, it's a Flash-Ball shot!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u13	Please, Mr. Ruffin!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u14	With regard to the great debate to which the President of the Republic has invited us, I welcome the decision to participate in the debate that you have just announced. It is essential to ensure that all our fellow citizens, regardless of their age, place of residence or professional activity, can say what they want, what they fear, what they do not want and what they propose – all out of the election campaign. Of course, election campaigns are periods of public debate, but you know, like me, Mr.Potier, that it is sometimes difficult – admit it – to address all the issues on this occasion. Considerations of individuals or circumstances sometimes take precedence over the quality of the public debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u15	You know something!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u16	This can happen. The aim of the major debate on the four themes identified by the President of the Republic is to propose to the French to express their views on taxation, democracy and citizenship, the ecological transition and the organisation of public services. The President of the Republic has indeed – sometimes this term is used – "cadre" the debate, in order to designate the subjects on which the words and proposals of the French, when they speak, can give rise to transformations of public action. They will be taken into account in the details of the transformation of public action. A good debate necessarily includes rules and a framework. It is not a question of questioning the republican form of the State, nor what the President of the Republic committed himself to when he was elected,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u17	So what's it for?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u18	... for a simple reason: challenging the very foundations of the commitments made by the President of the Republic, as well as by this majority during his election, would be tantamount to denying the legitimacy that derives from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u19	23%!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u20	We will therefore open the debate. It is our own business to address, even though we do not agree, not only our disagreements but also the substantive issues. I believe in the great national debate. Like you, in my duties as a local elected officer, I organized several of them. Like you, I know that the debate can bring out frontal oppositions, excessive words sometimes,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u21	What is excessive is your speaking time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u22	...but also sufficient and indispensable consensus to build democracy and the actions of tomorrow. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In other words, I welcome the organization of the great national debate. It is launched; For two months, he'll be intense. I hope that all the French will take it. We will have the opportunity to clarify the details in future responses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u23	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Saïd Ahamada has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u24	[[Same movements]] Ladies and gentlemen, being the first member of the La République Group on the move to speak today, I would like to offer you my good wishes for a good year on behalf of the majority group. Happy Republican New Year! [["Ah!" on several benches of the LR group]] My question is for the Prime Minister. Today, the President of the Republic is launching the major national debate. When he announced it, I must say that I was pleasantly surprised.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u25	The opposite would have surprised us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u26	It would have been easy for him, in terms of ecological transition, state organisation, democracy and taxation, to say: "This is what I think I have heard and understood; Here's what I'm proposing." [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] On the contrary, the President of the Republic proposes to the French and French to express themselves, to give their opinion and to build with him a new social pact for this country, which is the best way to respect those who have moved and went on the roundabouts, but also those who have not moved and who suffer as much. I understand that some in this country remain sceptical after what has been announced.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u27	Incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u28	For my part, I believe that this opportunity to build a social contract must be seized. It will be one if the French seize it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u29	What's the question?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u30	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Prime Minister, I would like you to clarify the national representation on how the executive intends to ensure that all French people, wherever they are – in all territories, overseas, in difficult neighbourhoods, in the rural world or in cities – are able to express themselves in the great national debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u31	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u32	In order for the greatest number of French to grasp the great debate, the greatest number of instruments must be made available to them. That's why we want it to be exciting. It may take place at local initiative meetings, which may be organised by the mayors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u33	And the MPs, what are they for in this case?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u34	From the outset, we have indicated that the mayors who wish to do so – without imposing anything on them – will be able to play a very special role, given their place in our democratic system and their location throughout the territory of our Republic. Mayors, if they wish, will be able to organize local initiative meetings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u35	It's not their role!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u36	What about the deputies? What are they for?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u37	As I have announced, we will provide them with localized information and other information on the methodology of the debate. In order to help them organize these meetings – in the event that they wish to facilitate their organisation without animating them – we will propose to the mayors who wish to do so to make available to them mediators and facilitators from the network of the National Commission for Public Debate, as well as other networks of animation and mediation, so that these meetings will take place in the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u38	And Mrs. Jouanno, what is she doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u39	It will also be possible to make direct contributions to the Government, either via the Internet – through a large digital consultation – or by post. We will also organize regional citizen conferences.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u40	At the level of large regions?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u41	It's not his fault!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u42	He kept them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u43	The idea is to ensure – in each French region – that French people drawn by lot can exchange, debate and decide on the first conclusions emanating from the consultations, not to question the legitimacy of anyone, but to ensure that everyone is well aware that those who have a vocation to express themselves are not those who are used to speaking, but all the French. That is our objective. We will therefore multiply these initiatives. One more word. The debate will be what our fellow citizens will do with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u44	What you'll do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u45	In other words, if trade union organisations, associations and elected representatives – whatever they may be – wish to seize it and participate – respecting certain rules – in its organisation, they are welcome. We have everything to gain from multiplying the occurrences of the great debate and to ensure that everywhere, even in the village farthest from the largest city of France, one can indeed decide on the four main themes open to debate by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u46	Are there any taboo subjects?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u47	I will have the opportunity to refer to the guarantees of independence, impartiality and objectivity of the debate and the resulting returns.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u48	ISF!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u49	Mr Ahamada, I want to be very clear: this debate will be what those who love the Republic, the public debate and democracy will do with it. My conviction – which is also yours, I believe – is that our citizens call for the public debate of their wishes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u50	Will we talk about the ISF?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u51	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] They want to say what they want. They will have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u52	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u53	Prime Minister, after months of crisis at the state summit, Emmanuel Macron suddenly remembered that "those who are nothing," "those who have no right to complain," perhaps deserved to be listened to. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Today, therefore, you are launching the famous "great national debate". The position of the Republican Group is constant and clear: we will contribute to it. We were never afraid to listen and debate. We have a lot of proposals to make – about wasting public money,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u54	It's true that until now, you've never wasted anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u55	...on purchasing power, on immigration, on labour value, on our rural life. But, Prime Minister, it is still necessary for this great debate to have meaning, to be useful, to be free. Two thirds of the French already believe that it will not be able to get out of the crisis. I am not concealing our sideration to the leadership exercise that the Government has been conducting for several weeks. Great debate, yes, but framed by a letter from the President which already states that the "major orientations" of his policy will not change after the debate: he therefore invites the French to chat on a few topics, but does not intend to change anything. Great debate, yes, but led by macroeconomic ministers: facilitators, of course, but only from the start-up nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u56	What about the mayors?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u57	[[Applause on the benches of the LR Group as well as among non-attached Members]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Is that your vision of impartiality and independence? A great debate, yes, but it is not clear who will draft the conclusions; We do not want the reports to be condemned to take the dust on a shelf. Great debate, yes, but suddenly remembering the key role of our mayors, after having despised them for more than a year and a half! Great debate, yes, but like a smokescreen to mask the fact that the only person who refuses to question himself is Emmanuel Macron – who adds to the sense of effort of the French! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, how do you want to give the French the floor by refusing to give them the microphone? When will you finally agree to listen to our fellow citizens so that this debate is useful?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u58	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u59	Madam Member, I would like to be as clear as possible: if you think, as a matter of principle, that a debate is of no use...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u60	She just said that we will contribute!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u61	You didn't listen to anything...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u62	... then it will be difficult for me...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u63	So start by listening to the questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u64	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Mr President Jacob, I see that you have taken strength during the holidays, but let me answer your colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u65	Only the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u66	Madam Member, the debate is taking place today. It's going to last two months. Four themes have been identified...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u67	There were five at the start!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u68	..., thirty-five questions were asked by the President of the Republic – who himself wrote in a letter of which I am sure you read it carefully that the French were obviously free to express themselves as they wish, to choose the topics they would like to address. No one is thinking for a second of forbidding the French to express themselves, and even though someone would like to try, we know enough of our fellow citizens to know that such an undertaking would be doomed to failure – nothing stops them, and they are right! The debate is therefore open. The President of the Republic wanted to ask thirty-five questions – that's not nothing! – and chart four areas of debate. What will be said will be used by the Government to make the decisions that follow: this is what this debate will serve. It is a debate between the French, so that they say what they think, wherever they are, whether they have used their yellow vest to say what they want, or on the contrary that they have not used it – they also think a lot of things, sometimes feel that they are not being heard in this period of great stress, and want to express themselves. We think – as I am sure you do – also to them, and the debate will also serve that purpose. If we address the mayors, it is not to ask them to organize the debate, because we do not want to give them any order whatsoever; But we tell them that because of what they are, what they represent in our democracy and in our territories, they are best placed, if they wish, to participate in the organisation of these debates. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I observe that it was the rural mayors who, in reaction to these events, wanted to take the initiative. Don't blame us for hearing them! On the contrary, consider with me that their commitment is probably the best news. We will try to accompany them, without ever forcing them, but by facilitating what can be. That's what I said to all the elected associations; This is what Sébastien Lecornu, as minister responsible for local authorities, will tell all the mayors of France. If we want this to work, we need those in charge! Sébastien Lecornu's responsibility is to help those of the 36,000 mayors of France who want to get involved in this process, to answer them, to provide them with useful information. The responsibility of Emmanuelle Wargon is to ensure that the supply chain, i.e. all the elements necessary for the organisation of the debate, is ready. [[Exclaims and laughs on the benches of the LR group]] But, Madam Member, those who will make the decisions, especially in the drafting of the summaries, especially in order to bring up the information, it is neither I nor Sébastien Lecornu nor Emmanuelle Wargon. These decisions can only be taken under the supervision of the college of guarantors. That is why we have asked the Presidents of the National Assembly, the Senate and the Economic, Social and Environmental Council to each appoint a representative, a recognized figure who will ensure that the principles of objectivity, impartiality and transparency are respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u69	What about Mrs. Jouanno?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u70	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It can very well be concluded that this method of designation does not provide any guarantee. But if you think that, then there are a number of appointments that will be contested very quickly! It is, I think, useful for the three assemblies of the Fifth Republic to participate in this way – at least in this way – in the great debate that is coming.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u71	Mrs Pascale Fontenel-Person has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u72	Minister of Economy and Finance, on Tuesday 8 January last, the difficult situation of the Sarthian company Arjowiggins was made public when Sequana, the parent company of this company specializing in the production of very high-end recycled paper and technical papers, requested that three plants of the group be put into judicial reform with further activity for two months. Two of these factories are located in the Sarthe: the first, located in Saint-Mars-la-Brière, has 262 employees; the second, in Bessé-sur-Braye, in my electoral district, there are 572. It is therefore more than 830 local jobs that are threatened. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] The old location of these two sites is the economic lung of the life pool. The surrounding rural environment will be the first to be affected by the closure of the sites: subcontractors, businesses and artisans working around these sites will suffer irreversible collateral damage. Last week, I met with union representatives of employees, representatives of the management of the Bessé-sur-Braye plant and the judicial administrators appointed by the Nanterre Commercial Court. They confirm that the State has engaged with them in recent years. Indeed, in 2015, the then Minister of Economy, Emmanuel Macron, had resolutely supported this company, involving Bpifrance. But, to date, due to a lack of cash, the machines are at a standstill and letters of dismissal are being prepared. Beyond the current turmoil, economic life continues, with every day its batch of events, which shake and weaken our territories ever more. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] What role can the State continue to play in this matter? How can the state facilitate the safeguarding of these 830 local jobs – I am thinking in particular of a proposal for the takeover of Bessé-sur-Braye employees?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u73	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u74	The Sequana group has been facing difficulties for several years. He received the responsible support of the State; Bpifrance, a shareholder, accompanied the company's attempts to recover. The very recent failure of the process of resumption of the entire group engaged for almost a year has led the company to put three of its French sites into judicial reform; Besides, they're on hold for lack of cash. Our priority has been the payment of salaries and the maintenance of contracts in the company, since this is one of the conditions for working on the resumption of the various sites. We now focus on the search for buyers, site by site, in a context made difficult by the very sharp increase in the price of raw materials, paper, and by the least competitiveness of Sequana compared to its immediate competitors, for some of them present in France; Scandinavian companies are much better integrated, especially with regard to the use of raw material. In this context, we are waiting for the beginning of February for buy-back offers. We have already received expressions of interest. We are trying to organise visits very soon; On this basis, we will be able to work with the company and with the buyers, as well as with the employees if they plan to propose a recovery plan themselves. This will enable us to reach a solution when, at the end of February, the commercial court will examine the offers. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] Be aware that we are fully engaged with the company and employees to succeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u75	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u76	[[The members of the FI Group rose and applauded. – Several MPs on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and GDR groups applaud]] On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like first of all to pay tribute to the firefighters who died during the explosion of the rue de Treviso, to those who are being stoned by idiots, as well as to the firefighter yellow vest of Bordeaux, who is currently in a coma. Prime Minister, how can Mr Castaner still be Minister of the Interior with, as a provisional assessment, more than 2,000 injured in the yellow vests, more than 1050 wounded among the law enforcement forces, and a total of 12 dead since the beginning of the mobilization? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It even threatens demonstrators by stating the imaginary offence of complicity in violent demonstrations. I have also lodged a complaint against him before the Court of Justice of the Republic, for obstructing the freedom to demonstrate. He repeats yesterday by saying that he knows "no policeman... who attacked yellow vests." It is thought to be a dream, even though the General Inspectorate of the National Police, the IGPN, has been seized by numerous reports, including by the Ministry itself. The use of Flash-Balls and grenades causes serious injuries and mutilations in demonstrators. As the Defender of Rights demands, let's ban them! [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Inacceptable, too, are journalists who are injured, prevented from doing their job, whether by the police or the violent. We condemn the violence, wherever it comes from, of demonstrators or law enforcement officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u77	Who calls for insurrection, except you? A little decency!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, only Mr Bernalicis has the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u79	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] However, a statesman should say, like the prefect of Paris, Maurice Grimaud in 1968: "Smuggling a protestor who has fallen to the ground is to strike himself by appearing under a light that attains the entire police function". Yellow vests respect public order and sometimes chant: "The police with us! " Breakers and violents are a tiny minority. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] While law enforcement must guarantee the freedom to demonstrate peacefully, they are asked to obstruct this right, as is demonstrated by arbitrary arrests, illegitimate violence, irrational orders and even arrests for the use of physiological serum! The police simply obey the orders of the policy. In addition, judicial violence, according to Ms. Belloubet's instructions for firmness, is also involved. Being a yellow vest has always become an aggravating circumstance, in violation of the penal code. Sad atmosphere, on the day of the resumption of the discussion on the bill of reform of the justice, which increases repression. [[Applause on the benches of the FI Group – Exclaims on the benches of the FI Group]] Listening to claims must succeed the deafness of the baton. There will be no public order without social justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u80	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u81	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for thinking about Simon and Nathanaël, who were carried away in the dramatic explosion that took place on Saturday morning in the 9th arrondissement of Paris. I was this morning, with their parents, alongside their companions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups as well as on some benches of the LR group]] They are, along with others, representatives of this public service of relief, assistance, security, women and men who carry a parcel of the Republic because, Mr Bernalicis, there is no freedom, without public order. Public order is even a sine qua non for freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u82	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u83	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I'm telling you, MP, I don't know any police officers, any gendarmes, any firemen, any journalists who deliberately attacked any of the demonstrators. On the other hand, today I know 700 policemen and 350 gendarmes who were attacked and wounded.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u84	And that allows them to respond with a tense shot, like a policeman did in Toulon?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u85	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] I was in Carcassonne yesterday, where I met the prefect. I also met with the sub-prefect of Narbonne and the security forces, especially those of the gendarmerie squadron, present at the toll of Narbonne North, who were burned down, attacked. In hindsight, after saving their weapons, they saw all the gendarmerie's premises burned down, burned down, like the toll. That is the reality that these forces must face.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u86	And what does the IGPN say?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u87	Mr Coquerel, please let the minister answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u88	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] And they always face with proportionality, with discernment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u89	That's not true, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u90	And if mistakes are to be established, then we must be transparent, because we must be exemplary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u91	Where's transparency?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u92	[[Many members of the LaREM Group and several members of the MODEM and UAI groups are standing up and applauding at length. – Exclaims on FI banks]] But don't confuse or confuse, MP: on the one hand, there are no brittle policemen and on the other hand, nice demonstrators.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u93	That's not what Ugo Bernalicis said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u94	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u95	Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health, this morning I presented the report of the fact-finding mission on the revision of the Bioethics Act. It comes at the end of a work of several months, led together with our colleague, President Xavier Breton, during which calmed debates could take place, on a wide variety of topics. While diverse opinions have been expressed, they have always been expressed with courtesy and mutual respect. The result is a document and, above all, 60 proposals, which try to pursue bioethics in this French way, which seeks not to fall into excessive frilty or unbearable recklessness. This medium path, which allows for the integration of medical and scientific progress, gives the possibility to move forward, not only in terms of procreation and extension of it, or of access to origins for children born to a third-party donor, but also on issues of organ transplantation, and research on embryo or stem cells. In all these areas, as in the new sectors that have been opened, for example in the field of artificial intelligence, there are now many proposals showing a willingness to move forward in each of these areas. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] The Prime Minister has announced seminars, to which Members of Parliament and Senators who want further information will be invited. Minister, I believe that you will introduce a bill in the spring, which we will debate later. I would like you to clarify the timetable for this joint work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u96	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u97	First of all, I would like to thank you for the quality of the work you have done in this parliamentary mission, because I know that you have conducted many debates and conducted more than 65 hearings. I recall that the report of this mission is in addition to other reports, such as those of the Council of State, the general states of bioethics, the National Ethics Advisory Committee and the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices. Its conclusions will enable us to feed this law. The Government has decided to propose working seminars to parliamentarians in both chambers in the next two months. From the end of January, we have planned four seminars, open to all parliamentarians who wish to do so, which we will conduct, with the care of the seals, Nicole Belloubet, and with the Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, Frédérique Vidal, on four themes: medically assisted reproduction – opening of the LDC to all women, post-mortem LDCs, freezing of oocytes; embryo research; filiation and lifting of anonymity of gamete donors; Preconceptual genetics, prenatal, general population. We organize these seminars to provide the legal framework, in order to inform MPs and senators who wish to do so about the existing, the findings of the reports and the scientific issues inherent in these themes, such as the issues of the future. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] We hope that these discussions with parliamentarians will also provide a better understanding of these issues, in a peaceful and respectful context. Of course, I hope that the participants in these debates, which are open to all, will be as numerous as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u98	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u99	The President of the Republic drew the contours of the great debate that he wished to organize in response to the anger that is rumbling. I will take part, like many Members, in the interests of the responsibility and appeasement of our country, even though there are still many questions about the way in which the consultation is organised or about the treatment given to the proposals that will be made. On reading the themes chosen, it must be noted that the territorial divide and the necessary rebalancing between peripheral France and those of the metropolises have been forgotten...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u100	Once again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u101	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... as well as mobility, in particular the limitation of speed to 80 km/h which I would like to mention again. An uncoordinated measure, imposed in disregard of the opinion of many users and elected. The latter rightly deplored the fact that the subject was dealt with from a security point of view alone, ignoring the consequences of land-use planning. A measure – this has not escaped anyone – that was not unanimous either in the government or in the majority. A measure that we have proposed to adapt and that has triggered, as we feared, the exasperation and anger of our fellow citizens. A measure whose first road safety effects are very contrasting and will, in essence, remain difficult to assess. A measure that, in the opinion of the observers, has been in many departments the detonator of the anger of the yellow vests. The President of the Republic indicated that no matter was prohibited. The Minister of the Interior stated that he was not precluded from revisiting this measure. Mr Prime Minister, are you prepared to accept a calm debate on this measure, without waiting for its evaluation or closing us in to a discussion on statistics but objectively examining its disadvantages in terms of mobility? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Are you prepared to accept the principle of adapting this measure on a case-by-case basis, as called for in the bill I tabled on behalf of the Republican Group?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u102	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u103	This measure, as you know, has only one objective: to save lives. Its sole purpose is to limit every day the exercise so difficult, that you have lived as a local elected official, to have to accompany a parent, a child, a close relative faced with a broken life on the roads. We need to question the fact that those who fire radars forget, perhaps in the name of the polemic debates that have taken place here, that they have only one function: to save lives. The Prime Minister has been clear. We will need to analyse the results of this measure. Yes, we will be able to debate the 80 km-hour, but based on objective safety and life-saving elements. After two years of implementation, we will be able to assess its effectiveness. If it is established that the measure has saved 600, 700 or 800 lives...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u104	We'll be at 70 miles an hour!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u105	... – I'm not only talking about the dead but also about the injuries and handicaps avoided – so we'll remember this exchange.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u106	I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u107	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We will remember that because we have had the political courage to take such a step, we have saved lives, we have avoided mutilated lives, we have preserved those lives to which some are obliged to give up because of an accident-related disability. That is what we must keep in mind. We will soon have road safety figures on the number of deaths. We will then be able to make a first analysis, together, in transparency, by comparing the figures for the first and second semesters of 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u108	[[Applause]] Before giving him the floor, I am pleased to welcome Mr. Pascal Brindeau, who became Member of Parliament for the third riding of the Loir-et-Cher on January 10, in place of Mr. Maurice Leroy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u109	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] As I speak before you, the President of the Republic is in the Eure to officially launch the great national debate. Surprising symbol of opening a debate, which concerns all the elected and all the citizens of the Republic, on the precise schedule of questions to the government, on this day of parliamentary return! Should we see it as a voluntary choice, a missed act or an expression of a certain vision of democracy? Would we have changed to this point of world and political regime that we, Members of Parliament, representatives of the people, expression of popular sovereignty, would not be invited to listen to the presidential speech or associated with the debate on a subject of crucial importance for the future of our country? [[Applause on several benches of the UDI-Agir and LR groups]] Precisely, the social and political crisis that we are experiencing today is so strong, in part because Parliament's role has been neglected. Whether we are members of Parliament or senators, our mission is to write and vote the law and to monitor the actions of the Government. Control means first and foremost dialogue! Maurice Leroy, to whom I have the honour of succeeding, instructed you, a few weeks ago, to take the time of dialogue to restore confidence between the elected and the French, as well as between the elected themselves. His words, I make them my own to ask you whether Parliament will be fully involved in this great national debate, and how. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Can you assure us that the local elected representatives will also be fully involved in the debate, and this from the beginning of the work – those same local elected officials who are called to rescue when anger roares while they have been forgotten and neglected since the beginning of the mandate? [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LR groups]] Local elected officials have gained the confidence of their fellow citizens through speech, gesture and listening. Yeah, listen to him. It is this listening that is so lacking today at the highest summit of the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u110	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u111	In my turn, I would like to welcome you to the National Assembly and wish you good luck in the double and heavy burden of representing a territory that I know well and succeeding Maurice Leroy. You are asking the question of the place of Parliament and the local elected representatives in the great debate that is opening this afternoon. As elected representatives, you represent citizens, territories and opinions in their diversity. So you have a full place in the debate. You are legitimate to participate, to be facilitators, witnesses, vigilant actors and, ultimately, the voice of what has been said. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I welcome the various representatives of the groups who, while highlighting the subjects on which their vigilance will be focused, have expressed their intention to participate in the debate. That is a good point for democracy. Subsequently, several groups of the National Assembly and the Senate expressed their willingness to make proposals directly. There is no doubt that political formations will do so as well. These contributions will be useful for the discussion. Finally, the debate will give rise to a translation into parliamentary work. It is the purpose of the adjustment of the parliamentary calendar that has been decided – I am thinking in particular of the postponement of the constitutional revision that will help to fuel the reform of the exchanges that have taken place in the debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This debate is an opportunity to articulate representative democracy and participatory democracy. Both must not be opposed. The whole point of this debate is to allow dialogue. Representing and listening to citizens, nothing is more important. That is the subject of the great debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u112	In addition, I have asked all the presidents of the groups in this House to reflect on the modalities they wish to see defined for the major debate in this House, in order to include this item on the agenda of the next Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u113	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u114	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group and on many benches of the LaREM, MODEM, LR, UDI-Agir and SOC groups]] I would first like to have a thought, on behalf of the Freedom and Territories Group, about the victims of the explosion that took place on Saturday morning in Paris and about the two firefighters who lost their lives on that occasion. Let us never forget that firefighters are the permanent builders of a model of civil protection that must be preserved. Prime Minister, our country is, as everyone knows, going through a crisis of unprecedented gravity; its social and territorial cohesion is weakened. Elected from the nation and elected from the ground, we also know, on all these benches. The debate desired by the President of the Republic is now under way and will take place. We will participate because the situation demands it. However, the first requirement, Prime Minister, is for the restitution phase to live up to the expectations that this debate has given rise to. Otherwise, you would only worsen mistrust and anger. So what commitments do you make to the national representation so that the proposals put forward by the French are translated into practice? In what form will they be? We welcome your decision to involve political parties in a debate follow-up committee, in accordance with a proposal I made during the debate on the motion of censure. Can you give us guarantees that we will be really consulted, and not only informed? We know that legislative activity will be somewhat diminished in the coming weeks, but it is out of the question that we remain in the House for two months. Mr President of the National Assembly, we really want our own proposals, relayed by the parliamentary groups – you have just referred to them – to be debated. The Assembly cannot be excluded from this debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Mr Prime Minister, can we count on you to take into account, beyond the proposals made by the French in the territories during the debate, the proposals made by the various groups of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u115	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u116	Mr Vigier, your question concerns many aspects, some of which are part of a decision to be taken by the President of the National Assembly and the Conference of Presidents, which I cannot, of course, preempt. Nevertheless, it would not seem absurd to me that we should be able to debate within the Chamber; I think it is even legitimate that this is the case: acknowledge with me that it would be rather curious if the debate were organised everywhere in France, except within this Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u117	That's what's been going on for several months!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u118	It will therefore be up to parliamentarians or, more precisely, political parties to determine the modalities of this debate. Of course, we are ready for such a debate and we believe that it is necessary. This is the meaning of a remark made by the President of the Republic: he called on all the assemblies to take up this debate, not only the parliamentary assemblies, the National Assembly and the Senate, but also the other political assemblies of our country. You also asked me about how political formations can be involved in organizing this debate, knowing that they have a constitutional role: under the Constitution, they participate in the expression of vote and in the elaboration of the general will. Clearly, with regard to a debate which we want to be impartial and objective, we cannot entrust the organisation to political formations, not so much because we would have no confidence in these formations, but because it is important for our fellow citizens that this debate be held between the French. Nevertheless, I have proposed – as you have mentioned and thank you for this – that the political groups represented in the National Assembly and the Senate each appoint a representative. These representatives will be meeting regularly in a monitoring committee in order to get in touch with the guarantors – those who will take the decisions, those who will be able to say whether the desired framework of impartiality is well respected – and to be able to pass on their guidelines and proposals to all those who contribute to the organisation of this debate. They will therefore have an important mission. Mr Vigier, you may recall that such a follow-up committee was set up on the occasion of the European consultations organised by Mrs Nathalie Loiseau, Minister for European Affairs. In my opinion and in the general view, it had worked rather well. This is what we want to reproduce; We believe that this is indispensable. You have finally asked me, Mr. President, how the President of the Republic, the Government and the majority will take into account what has been said. I have indicated that everything that will be said within the framework proposed by the President of the Republic will be taken into account by the Government; It's the very object of this framing. Once the debate has taken place and proposals have been made, it will therefore be up to us to incorporate them into the decisions we will have to take, for example on the organisation of public services – this is one of the aspects of the debate. This will not necessarily be through a law; This can be done through organizational decisions or through legislative work. In any case, we will have to take into account a number of proposals or formulations that have been made public and debated and that will emerge directly from the public debate. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It is difficult for me to tell you today, before the debate takes place, to what extent we are going to take up proposals that have not yet been put forward. Nevertheless, have no doubt, Mr Vigier, I want to be very clear: this debate is intended to allow the French to speak. It must be useful, our citizens want it, and I think our country needs it. We will try, like you, Mr President, and like all those who love the Republic and democracy, to live up to these challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u119	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u120	Prime Minister, today begins the great national debate promised by the President of the Republic in response to the major social crisis in our country. However, how can we believe in the Government's willingness to listen to the French when we see the fate reserved for public debates led by the now famous National Commission for Public Debate? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups and on several benches of the LT group. – Ms Delphine Batho also applauds]] I am against the public debate on the Gold Mountain project in Guyana, which has received an overwhelming majority of unfavourable opinions. Neither the project promoter nor the Government really takes this into account. It is quite simple: according to the polls, seven out of ten Guyanans are opposed to it. In addition, the petition "no to the Golden Mountain" has so far collected 380,000 signatures, which is 100,000 more than the number of inhabitants registered throughout Guyana. [[Ms. Delphine Batho applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Ms Frédérique Tuffnell also applauds]] At the heart of our concerns is the Aboriginal issue. I recall here that the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination has just asked France to resume its consultation process, so that indigenous peoples can be heard on this subject. Then comes the problem of the use of cyanide, a real poison, responsible for the worst ecological disaster in Europe since Chernobyl. It has played a predominant role in the poisoning of Salsigne, in the Aude, which to date remains the most polluted site in France. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] That is why, in a responsible manner and as part of a trans-party approach involving colleagues from the eight groups of the House, we have tabled a motion for a resolution to ban the use of cyanide by the mining industry, as has been the case in neighbouring countries such as Germany and Hungary. The multinational Columbus Gold soon reacted by reassuring its shareholders, considering that this initiative would be doomed to failure, in the same way as the two European attempts of 2010 and 2017. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups as well as on several benches of the LT group and on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Delphine Batho also applauds]] Therefore, Prime Minister, my question is simple: are you on the side of foreign multinationals, ready to poison us to fatten their shareholders, or can we count on your support to avoid the announced tax, ecological and health disaster?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u121	Respect the word of the governed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u122	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u123	To begin with, Mr. Deputy, the Government has not taken a decision at this stage; let it be clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u124	What are you waiting for?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u125	The President of the Republic set a clear framework during his visit to Guyana in October 2017 and during the overseas sieges in June 2018. Mining projects must meet three essential criteria: first, they must be exemplary from an environmental point of view,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u126	There's no such thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u127	...secondly, democratically acceptable and, thirdly, beneficial to the territory from an economic and social point of view. It is on the basis of these criteria that we will judge whether or not this project can be carried out in Guyana.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u128	The decision is made in fact!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u129	With regard to the method of dialogue, another important point that you have raised in your question, we are working to be, again, coherent. The great national debate that is opening will be an unprecedented moment of discussion and listening to the French; It will feed into the future decisions of the Government. We are already doing this with regard to the Golden Mountain: taking indigenous peoples into account is one of our central concerns. Otherwise, there would simply be no debate. On this project, as well as in the context of the great national debate, it is absolutely crucial and vital that we listen to each other, in order to find consensus and move forward. The words of indigenous peoples were gathered during the public debate held from March to July. A large customary council was established in June 2018. He is represented in the departmental committee on mines, consulted on all mining projects in Guyana. I repeat that taking into account the position of indigenous people, the object of the approach taken by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, is an absolutely central concern. [[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] I come to the motion for a resolution that you tabled. Historically, cyanide-based processes have been introduced to prevent dramatic environmental effects. Nevertheless, cyanide, of course, also presents many risks. That is why we still need to look more closely at the issue. Be assured, honourable Member, that no decision has been taken at this stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u130	That's not an answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u131	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u132	My question is for the Prime Minister. It concerns the industrial situation not only of the Sarthe department but of the whole of France, which now has several factory closures. A few days ago, the Arjowiggins stationery applied for and obtained its placement in judicial reform. This decision came after the plan to take over the stationery by an Irish group failed. Two units, one in Saint-Mars-la-Brière and the other in Bessé-sur-Braye, both in the Sarthe, which employ a total of more than 900 employees, let alone all indirect jobs, are threatened with permanent closure. Beyond these two units, two areas of life and economy, as well as other local companies working with these industrial units, are directly at risk. The objective is, as you said, to seek solutions to continue the activity of Arjowiggins' graphic divisions and creation papers, and to maintain employment. But the absence of an investment capacity and the existence of a debt for these two sites are unfortunately likely to lead to a dismemberment of the activities and to the disappearance of the last French paper group. However, the company has viable activities in several areas: cellulose wadding, recycled paper, high-quality paper, which are promising markets. Prime Minister, I would like to know your intentions and the concrete answers that the State intends to provide in order to support the resumption of activity until a successor is found. How is government action in this area linked to national industrial priorities and programs that can be locally declined? How does the state intend to create industrial jobs – and not just help locate them – according to a logic of either specialization or valorisation? What applies to this department is for everyone. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] But I also wanted to question you on another subject. An hour ago, the President of the Republic said: "People in difficult situations, they will be made more responsible, because there are people who do well and others who do not. Do you think that with such phrases, we will restore confidence to the population and soothe...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u133	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u134	Madam Member, as I have just told your colleague, the state has been accompanying the Sequana Group for many years in order to get the company right. We are again at the company's side, and alongside local authorities and employees to find a very concrete solution for each site in the coming weeks. I would like to clarify one point: there are paper sites in France, particularly in the Landes, which are certainly belonging to Scandinavian groups but which are functioning and competitive. We would therefore not see the disappearance of the latest papermaking know-how in our country if we were not in a position to find a solution for Arjowiggins. On the other hand, the strategy we are pursuing with regard to restructuring, you know it: to do everything possible to allow a credible offer to take over to be proposed, completed and, if no offer materializes, to do everything possible to personally accompany each of the employees, as we have done in the past. But our industrial policy is not limited to firms in difficulty. Our duty is to anticipate industrial change, to accompany it and also to develop new sites. Let me remind you that for two years, and this happened again in 2018, we have opened more sites than we have closed. We have created more jobs than we have destroyed in manufacturing. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Let me also recall the investments or extensions of Toyota in Hauts-de-France, Daimler-Benz – for 500 million euros – in Hambach, Moselle, and AstraZeneca in Dunkirk, to name but a few. Today, our goal for industry is to allocate skills: in industry, 50,000 unfilled jobs are immediately available. We must fight skills with Muriel Pénicaud and Jean-Michel Blanquer, thanks to an investment of 15 billion that is an unprecedented effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u135	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u136	Mr Minister for National Education and Youth, as part of a mission within the Women's Rights Delegation of our Assembly, I presented with our colleague Stéphane Viry a report on the position of women in the scientific world. This work has brought to light a sad reality: the too low presence of women in these fields. This reality has worsened, and is even becoming alarming in the field of digital and computer science, as the position of women has declined since the 1980s in the field of computer science. However, this is a path of the future, with many opportunities. The stakes of code, algorithm and artificial intelligence will indeed determine our society of tomorrow. You highlighted this in your roadmap in August 2018: you want to put digital at the heart and service of the school of trust. Thus, with the reform of the baccalaureate, we see a new specialisation teaching "digital and computer sciences". The question of training and recruitment of teachers can be raised. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] On January 7, you announced the creation of an IT CAPES. Your decision will make it possible to carry computer science in its own right in our school path. I would like to pay tribute here to the work of Danièle Hérin, who, on several occasions, has called for the creation of this CAPES. Thank you, Danièle, for your tenacity! The digital sciences are deeply multidisciplinary. Beyond recruitment by CAPES, how do you imagine the recruitment and training of those who will teach digital at school? Are the disciplinary requirements of today's competitions still relevant for selecting tomorrow's teachers in an increasingly transversal world? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] More broadly, Minister, what are the training prospects for teachers today and tomorrow?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u137	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u138	Madam Member, your question concerns one of the most important issues that characterizes one of the greatest developments in our society: digital. We all know that we have to train our students – boys and girls – to a new civilization, which corresponds to both society and the professions of tomorrow, and thus opens up opportunities. It is often said that the new generations are very digital. In fact, their knowledge is rather superficial. It's time for the school to deliver thorough knowledge. This is why the reform of the high school provides for a series of innovations. Thank you for calling them back. The first is the fact that, as soon as the next school year, the discipline of technology and digital sciences will be taught to all second-level students at a rate of one and a half hours a week. And then there is this extremely important specialty education, which is even an innovation at the global level: for the first time, a four-hour specialty education – and then six hours at the senior level – will be provided at the high school in the digital and computer sciences. This new reality allows us to do a lot of things, in particular to pursue a proactive policy so that more girls are destined for digital careers, because, in general, the reform of the high school allows for more authentic, more in-depth choices, so that after the baccalaureate those who choose a specialty education can continue in the field they have begun to deepen. The reform will promote this equality between men and women that you, like all of us, want in the computer field as well as in the others. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This new context also allows for the creation of an IT CAPES. This measure was very much expected by the computer community. We expect it for the year 2020, before creating an aggregation of information technology. Of course, as you wish, it will be the outposts of educational innovation, since the subject lends itself to it considerably.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u139	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u140	Prime Minister, I will ask you two questions about Alstom's situation, which is being dismantled. The first concerns the acquisition of Alstom by Siemens, announced in September 2017. Fifteen months later, this dossier is stuck in the Brussels antitrust procedure, which has asked the new set, at least in a way that is at least grim, to resell, in particular, the TGV technology of the future. Of course, we can only share the criticism expressed by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance that the European Commission's case law on competition is now absurd. But it is not only the Commission that criticises this merger: it is also the case of the German competition authority, which delivered an unfavourable opinion yesterday.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u141	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u142	Can you clarify, Prime Minister, the compromise proposals that the French Government is prepared to accept and, if necessary, the alternative strategy that it could support? The answer to this question, to which I associate my colleague Frédéric Reiss, obviously concerns all employees of the Alstom Group. My second question concerns the former Alstom Power, a division under General Electric control in 2014. The handsome American, who was supposed to ensure happy days for the French giant, is in fact very bad shape.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u143	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u144	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Indeed, it has a record quarterly loss of $22 billion in October 2018, encountered difficulties in six of its eight business segments and had to bear a colossal debt of $115 billion. General Electric's new president, Larry Culp, does not hide his intention to divest assets. General Electric currently employs 11,000 employees in France – this figure only concerns the energy industry. I do not think it is your government's intention to witness an industrial and social disaster as a spectator. Would you be prepared, Prime Minister, to seek to rebuild, with energy partners, a French offer, to offer General Electric the purchase of its nuclear activities and thus allow us to recover our nuclear sovereignty, lost in 2014?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u145	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u146	Mr President, first of all I will answer your question about Alstom's energy division, which was purchased by General Electric. I know this file well enough for having sat on the board of directors of the Banque publique d'investissement at the time of this takeover, and having exchanged with Jean-Martin Folz, who, as you know, served on Alstom's board of directors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u147	Remind us of Macron's role!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u148	In 2014, Alstom did not have the critical size to compete in the energy sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u149	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u150	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Its activities in this area were not sustainable in the long term. This was the finding of the board of directors, as well as, to name but one name, that formulated by a great industrialist like Jean-Martin Folz. The choice of a rapprochement with a major market player therefore had the greatest meaning; it has been fully supported by Alstom's shareholders and board of directors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u151	Assume!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u152	As you know, when the information leaked, in April 2014, the Government explored all the solutions, including a rapprochement with Siemens, which would have had extremely important social consequences. It is for these reasons that we have negotiated an agreement with General Electric, which has helped to consolidate activity and protect employment for four years in France, while thousands of jobs have been abolished as a result of restructuring in all the other countries concerned. I would add that General Electric is committed to creating 1000 jobs, or paying EUR 50 million in penalties. The new CEO of General Electric is now committed to paying this amount to support the conversion of the basins. With regard to Alstom's current activities, I would like to point out that the market situation...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u153	Please close!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u154	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Hued on a few benches of the LR group]] As my time has expired, I shall stick to that answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u155	Madam Secretary of State, I only wish to warn you of the impending expiry of your speaking time, not to interrupt. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that immediately after the answer to the next question, we will proceed to the election of a Vice-President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u156	Mrs Bérangère Abba has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u157	[[Brouhaha on several benches]] Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, Sunday evening, like more than 4 million French, I was very shocked by the revelations of the inquiry of Capital magazine dedicated to the unsold marketplaces, these online sales platforms that put buyers and sellers in contact.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u158	Please listen to the speaker, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u159	Supply, incessant, does not meet sufficient demand. Many products do not find takers. Then we throw, we bury, we incinerate by tons; This concerns, for example, electrical, electronic products, the components of which, as we know, contain dangerous substances that pollute our soil and our watercourses. In France, the US giant Amazon would have destroyed over 3 million new unsold products last year. Beyond the health and environmental impact of such practices, how can we accept, while some lack everything, that yet new or consumable products are thus eliminated? How can we tolerate these scrappings, when we are all aware of the need to combat the waste of resources? Finally, how can we support the fact that Amazon still does not ensure the recovery of electrical and electronic waste, which is imposed by the environmental code? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I have heard, Madam Secretary of State, your determination to combat these practices. Can you tell us what measures the Government is taking, and within what time frame, to stop these aberrations?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u160	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u161	Amazon's motto is "working hard, having fun, writing history". It must be noted, however, that this society is still engaged in practices of the twentieth century, where we could, with impunity, destroy the planet without ever being disturbed. Well, with you, we're going to make sure Amazon really writes the history of the 21st century, that is, a story compatible with the limits of the planet, and helps build the new capitalism and a new sustainable model. It is time to adapt the law to also avoid unfair competition with other companies that respect the principle of extended producer responsibility – who think they are actors in society, take into account the end of life of their products and promote an environmentally friendly approach. It is no longer possible that in France and Europe, which want to be the singers of a new economic model, marketplaces can destroy still usable or repairable objects, nor should they be able to render unfit for consumption objects that could still be used. This is all the more intolerable because many of our fellow citizens need these products on a daily basis. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] By law, with you, we will ensure that Amazon respects the rules of the game: those of the planet, of fair competition but also – this government, in particular Bruno Le Maire, is fighting – those of taxation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group, as well as on some benches of the MODEM group]] Amazon must be a model company that, beyond the slogan, really contributes to writing the history of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u162	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u163	The next item is the election of a Vice-President of the National Assembly. I have before me the candidatures of Mr. David Habib, Mrs. Mathilde Panot, Mr. Francis Vercamer. As the number of candidates exceeds the number of seats to be filled, a vote should be taken. I would remind you that the vote is secret. In the first two ballots, the candidate who obtained an absolute majority of the votes cast shall be elected; in the third round, the relative majority shall be sufficient and, in the case of equality of votes, the oldest one shall be elected. Handwritten bulletins are valid. However, printed bulletins are available in the rooms adjacent to the Chamber. These ballots must be placed in the ballot box under wrapping. We shall proceed to the first round of balloting. I open the ballot, which is announced in the National Assembly. The voting will be closed at about 4.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u164	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u165	[[The sitting was suspended at 16.20 and resumed at 16.40 with Mr Hugues Renson in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u166	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a happy New Year 2019, a year that begins for us with the resumption of work on the Justice Programming and Reform Bill. The Conference of Presidents, meeting this morning, proposed to include on the agenda of Tuesday 29 and Wednesday 30 January 2019 the bill on the time limit for intervention of the judge of freedoms and detention in administrative detention in Mayotte, as well as the bill adopted by the Senate to prevent violence during demonstrations and to punish their perpetrators. In the absence of any objection, it was so decided.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u168	The next item is the discussion, on a new reading, of the draft law on programming 2018-2022 and reform for justice (No. 1503, 1548) and of the draft organic law on strengthening the organisation of courts (No. 1502, 1549). The Conference of Presidents decided that these two texts would give rise to a common general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u169	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u170	Since we are addressing the first text of 2019 in this House, allow me to present my personal wishes for this new year. Beyond our differences, natural and even fruitful in a democracy, I hope that this year will allow us to regain a form of harmony around the essential values of the Republic. I have a special thought for those of you, elected from the nation, who have been subjected to verbal and sometimes even physical violence in recent weeks that shocked me deeply. In these circumstances, it is up to us collectively to show through our exchanges that it is possible to debate with respect for the other and the basic rules of democratic civility. I know everyone here is always attentive to it. We are talking about the new reading of the law of programming and reform for justice and the organic law that accompanies it. This debate takes place only a few weeks after an examination at first reading which will have lasted a hundred hours, between work in committee and plenary. No one will have spared his efforts to expose his convictions and proposals. I would like to pay tribute to the work of your two rapporteurs who have brought their expertise to the examination of this reform, but also, I must say, a form of courage by going to the field to explain its objectives and to remind the truth of this text. It is not always simple in the current context where many unfounded fears are exploited. Dear Laetitia Avia, dear Didier Paris, I wanted to thank you sincerely. After such a thorough debate at first reading, it is no longer necessary to set out the details of this reform, which I have hoped will be directed primarily to the interests of the litigants. I know the criticisms that are being made of this project. How could I ignore them since, for almost 18 months, I have been constantly moving to the courts, to provincial bars, to prisons, and to receive representatives of all actors in the judiciary? I also hear people who want justice that is simpler, easier to access, more understandable. I have often used the word "effective" to define the justice I want for the French. But more effective justice does not mean less human justice; It is not justice that would ignore our principles and our values, justice that would refuse to judge, justice that would fail. On the contrary, it is a justice that offers each of us, regardless of their life course, profession and origins, the opportunity to see his case dealt with in a timely but without haste, with more and better equipped judges and staff, in decent premises, in simple and legible procedures, and by being able to assert his rights, in particular through the assistance of a lawyer. We have disagreements between ourselves, which have been put forward at length by each of the groups in the House. We can have policy debates on structuring directions. To my left, for example, I heard at first reading the refusal to see the construction of new prison places; At the same time, on my right, I have heard the criticisms and the desire to see us move further and faster in this area. These disagreements must be assumed as such, and I assume them as the parliamentarians who support this reform do. On the other hand, I must admit to you my perplexity – and I am using an euphemism – in front of the widely relayed disinformation campaign on, for example, the territorial organisation of our jurisdictions. I would like to return to this emblematic point. It is true that during the 2017 election campaigns the idea of a judicial map aligned with the administrative map was put forward: a court of grand instance – TGI – by department and a court of appeal by region. I note that the Senate voted the principle of the departmental court in October 2017, at the initiative of the Chair of the Law Commission, Philippe Bas. When I opened consultations on the work of justice, I received hundreds of contributions, not least from elected officials but also from professionals. I wanted to take them into account because they were profoundly fair and so I decided to maintain the territorial network of judicial settlements in its entirety, comprising 304 trial courts, 164 courts of major jurisdiction and 36 courts of appeal. In this context, referring to the creation of "judicial deserts", as we can still read or hear, is a way of agitating fears while this reform aims to maintain the service of justice as close as possible to the users, or even to strengthen this proximity. I understand, of course, that those who, just ten years ago, closed down brutally, without agreement, dozens of jurisdictions still feel some remorse, but playing with this bad memory to provoke fears at a time when the country is undergoing profound movements does not seem to me to be the best service that can be rendered to national cohesion. I would like to make it clear again: the merger of the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance into "judicial tribunals" is of an administrative nature. It is an internal reorganization, without any impact on the map of the courts, none of which will be closed. The objective of this merger is simple: to facilitate the steps taken by the litigants, who will no longer have to ask themselves, depending on the nature of the dispute, whether they must refer the matter to the court of instance or the court of grand instance. From now on, they will turn to the court for example in family matters as well as consumer credit, which was not the case before. The current trial courts, renamed local courts, will continue to try the same cases as today: those of the daily. There will be no setbacks in local justice and daily life. Even better, other cases, which had previously been tried in the courts of major jurisdiction, could now be tried in the local courts, at the initiative of the heads of the courts. Thus, depending on the needs, the head of the court may decide that the handling of child custody disputes, which is now tried exclusively in courts of general jurisdiction, can be dealt with in local courts, which will greatly facilitate access to justice for persons geographically remote from a court of general jurisdiction. On the specialisation of the courts in the departments with several courts, nothing will be imposed by the Ministry of Justice. The aim is to create local projects in consultation with judicial actors to create, in several areas of the department, clusters of expertise on specific, complex and rare disputes. An amendment to which the Government would favour would further clarify that. Similarly, in only two administrative regions, similar experimentation will be possible between appeal courts, as we had agreed with representatives of the legal profession, with which we have discussed a great deal on this and other matters. That is the reality of this text. It has no hidden defects or hidden intentions. I said it, I say it again and I will say it as long as necessary: there will be no closure of jurisdiction, there will be no devitalization of existing jurisdictions, there will be no empty shell, no judicial desert, simply because this majority has not made that choice. I am not an accountant for the choices made by the majorities that preceded us, as I am not an accountant for the choices that will be made by the successive majorities in the future, but I am an accountant for the choices made by this government, supported by this majority, under the authority of the President of the Republic, and this choice is to maintain the full grid of courts in our territories. To say the opposite is to miss the truth. I would now like to return to what this ambitious reform of our justice will bring for the people of the country, because it is above all to them that I wish to address. First of all, this reform provides considerable means, which show how far we are from an accounting logic, contrary to what some say. With 1.6 billion euros and 6500 job creations in five years, I can't really see where the accounting logic would be! We are in the process of finalising a programme of judicial real estate on the basis of the means that Parliament will give us from this text. You will naturally be the first to be informed, with the local elected representatives concerned, and you will see, black on white, that the state will invest everywhere, because we believe in the importance of the territorial mesh of our jurisdictions. This reform is also the creation of 15,000 additional prison places: 7,000 delivered and 8,000 launched in 2022. It paves the way for diversified institutions, with, for example, support structures for exit, allowing for appropriate care to facilitate the reintegration of prisoners. With this reform and this programming law, we are also opening up the transition to the digital age. Where our jurisdictions suffer from obsolete computer equipment and continue to handle paper files, as in the 19th century, we will offer judges and staff ultra-portables, high-speed networks and dematerialized procedures while guaranteeing the physical reception of all litigants. This deployment has already begun. The provisions on civil procedure aim to simplify the lives of citizens in the daily justice system. This simplification means, for example, a faster divorce procedure while maintaining the guarantees that must be expected from the judge. This element is eminently concrete. Simplification also involves strengthening mediation to try to find solutions, where possible, before embarking on contentious procedures. The project also proposes to remove unnecessary obligations imposed on protected adults. These majors will also be given new rights, such as the right to vote. We also make the choice of experiment to test procedures that work well elsewhere and may possibly avoid an unnecessarily long and complex judicial path, for example for the simplest maintenance revisions. This experiment will naturally be carefully evaluated. Our goal, in particular, is to facilitate the lives of the weakest parties, with the possibility of bringing a judge to court no matter what. At the criminal level, our objective is to strengthen the protection of the French by taking account of the evolution of crime and by harmonising procedures which can now be unclear, while of course maintaining the guarantee of rights. The powers granted to prosecutors, who, I would remind you, act on their behalf and on their behalf, are always exercised under the supervision of the judge of freedoms and detention. The simplification measures proposed in this framework are numerous. For example, I quote the flat-rate fines for drug use found by police officers or gendarmes. I also open the possibility for victims to file complaints online, only if they so wish. I am confident that the first step towards finding a culprit may be easier to take, especially for women who are victims of sexual violence. The trial of the criminal court in ten departments will avoid the correction of certain crimes, such as rape. Finally, our attention to the victims has led us to create a jurisdiction dedicated to the victims of terrorism to simplify a path that is now too long. Taking into account the terrorist threat has also led us to create a dedicated national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office to better ensure the security of the French, which, as you know, is our priority. It is also one of the main thrusts of this text to make sense of grief. If we were to sum up our project in three words on this point, it would be: to punish, to protect, to reintegrate. Those who must carry out a useful prison sentence must actually carry out the sentence that has been handed down and not, as today, see it arranged in conditions that neither the perpetrators nor the victims understand. On the other hand, prison sentences of less than six months are ineffective, desocializing and recidivistic. This text therefore makes the choice of abolishing prison sentences of less than one month and proposing a range of possible sentences where, today, short prison sentences are imposed. This requires diversified and appropriate sanctions, with the development of community service, home detention under electronic supervision and other types of punishment. Lastly, with regard to juvenile justice, the Government had chosen to open a considerable project by seeking Parliament's authorization to revise the 1945 Ordinance. In doing so, we have before us a calendar, certainly forced...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u171	Imposed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u172	...but realistic, and forcing us. The aim is that Parliament, at the end of the process of in-depth consultation which I have committed to conducting with all professionals and with parliamentarians who will want to get involved, the choices which will structure the juvenile penal code, which we wish to adapt to the challenges of our society. We must finally succeed in this matter, after a decade of delay and failure with regard to the actual realization of this rewriting. Your Law Commission chose consistency by confirming the positions it had taken at first reading, which the Government welcomes. Consideration of a text on a new reading is, of course, always an opportunity to refine the text and to make progress. We will have many amendments to consider. Many of them will be an opportunity to reaffirm the points of view already expressed a few weeks ago, but I do not give up the hope of convincing you that this reform is important, useful and a source of progress for the people and the justice of our country. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I wish all of us a calm and constructive debate. For my part, it is my pleasure to do so on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u173	I call Mrs Laetitia Avia, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u174	After the December vote on the Justice Programming and Reform Bill, we have now come together again to debate this bill in a new reading. How far this bill has come! In November 2017, the Minister, you entrusted the mission of five pairs to reflect on the evolution of our justice, within the framework of five projects corresponding to the pillars of this reform: improving and simplifying civil and criminal proceedings, meaning and effectiveness of sentences, network of courts and digital transformation. Many of us were present, now a year ago, for the restitution of these "buildings of justice." They were a considerable base of work, which for several months fed into debates within the legal and judicial professions in particular, with a view to the reform that we are about to vote on. We are far from the lack of consultation, despite what is hammered by some on public squares! Our honourable senators have had the first opportunity to analyse this text. They have it in many ways greatly enriched, to the point of increasing it by integrating elements far removed from the heart and themes of reform and consultation. They have also been able to provide necessary and justified details on a number of provisions: I am thinking, for example, of the supervision of online legal services platforms, or legaltech, provisions on which the National Assembly has maintained almost all the contributions of the Senate, except for the mandatory certification of these companies that we have made optional for reasons that we will explain again in our discussions. At first reading in the House, our three long weeks of debate allowed us to give the time and quality needed to analyse the many amendments tabled. Without going back to everything we have voted for, I would like to remind you that we have defined and clarified the framework for mediation, a mode of amicable settlement of disputes in full swing, alongside the public service of conciliation or participatory procedure through lawyers. We have limited the costs associated with the diversion of the collection of consent to medically assisted procreation – LDCs for future parents. It is 125 euros of savings thanks to the action of the majority, supported by the Government. With regard to divorce, an area in which our fellow citizens feel the heaviness of our judicial system, we have put the procedure and the deadlines down, but we have also ensured that a hearing is maintained in order to rule on interim measures from the outset of the proceedings, unless expressly agreed by the parties. We have restored the fundamental rights of the protected adults – voting, marrying, pacing, divorce – without the consent of the judge a priori, while maintaining the vigilance and protection of guardians and curators. We have encouraged transparency by making court decisions available free of charge to all, while guiding these open data in order to protect the people and professionals concerned. As we begin a new reading of this text, with a singularity in the parliamentary procedure that we want to study again the text that we voted for ourselves in December without it being returned by the Senate, it is not a question of unblocking what we did before the truce of confectioners. However, our discussions will continue to be useful as they will provide elements for adjustment and improvement, in line with our previous discussions. In the coming days, we would like to make the following clarifications. In the event of opposition to a payment order, all disputes, including those relating to payment deadlines, will have to be brought before local courts and not before the new dematerialised national court. With regard to the experiment on the review of maintenance payments by the family allowance funds – CAF – we will point out that the directors of CAF will have no discretion, which falls under the jurisdiction of the judge's office, and that in case of complexity of income, the case will fall to the family judges – JAF. As far as territorial organization is concerned, we will clarify the role of the jurisdictional councils, which we want to see fully involved in decisions on the allocation of niche disputes within IMTs. It is not a question of a specialization in the main subjects or of concentrating disputes, including niche disputes, into a single TGI, but rather of allocating them to the whole of the TGIs of a department, since niche disputes account for perhaps 10 per cent of the disputes dealt with in the territories. We will discuss many other proposals, but I would also like to take this moment to recall the objectives of this bill. The first objective is strengthened justice with a budget of 25 per cent over the quinquennium. This is an unprecedented budgetary effort, which must be stressed: it represents an additional EUR 1.3 billion. Of course, everyone would like more for justice, because its needs are unlimited, but that is not the budget of the State. Some also claim that this increase in the budget will only apply to prisons. Of course, it is incorrect, but beyond that, who can feel satisfied that so many people are sleeping on mattresses laid on the floor in our prisons? This is an emergency, to which we are responding. Prison, however, is not the alpha and omega of criminal policy and we create 1500 posts in the integration and probation services in order to better help convicts reintegrate into society. This programming law also creates 832 jobs in the judicial services: they are also judges, clerks and legal assistants. The second objective is simpler justice. Today, the functioning of our justice system is unfortunately incomprehensible to many of our fellow citizens. What is the difference between the Court of Appeal – IT – and the High Court? What court of law? In order to respond to these difficulties, the proposed reform of the justice system administratively merges the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance into a new court of justice. I'm saying "administratively." Very concretely, the litigant will be able to refer the matter to the nearest court, whether it is a former IT or a former TGI, without questioning the court's substantive jurisdiction. However, I hear the concerns of many professionals still marked by the stigmas of the 2008 reform. I say it and I say it again: there will be no removal of a court. This is not the plan for this reform. There's no hidden calendar. The Minister of Justice committed herself to this House a few minutes ago. The third objective is a more effective justice system, refocused on the office of the judge. This requires time for judges, so that they can devote themselves to the essence of their duties: judging and adjudicating disputes. There is still a need for litigation, because we want to encourage attempts at amicable rapprochement of the parties. It is a paradigm shift that we call for: trying to undo the dispute and reaching agreement through dialogue can be a good idea. It is also a matter of extracting the judge from all the procedures in which he has little value: the collection of consent to a LDC or the drafting of an act of notoriety. The last objective is a more modern justice, in which digital is always an opportunity and an alternative for those who wish to. File a complaint online, use an online mediation service, here are as many tools available, without obligation, to those who, for various reasons, would like to take advantage of the opportunities offered by digital technology. As for those who do not have access to the Internet, we do not forget them: they will have no obligation to use the Internet. It's as simple as that. Again, there is no hidden wolf or calendar. This bill, in fine, goes towards justice closer to people: a simple, efficient and modern justice that meets their needs, within their fingertips thanks to the digital and the closest territories through the courts that, I repeat, will be maintained. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all the best for this new year, which I wish for rich and hopefully soothing debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u175	I call Mr Didier Paris, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u176	The law of programming and reform for the justice system continues today under special conditions, as we re-read the text that we voted on at first reading after the Senate. It is one of the charms of the parliamentary procedure that some of us, I am part of it, discover. This does not detract from the depth of the debate. Our exchanges have been particularly rich, for several weeks we have been working together. Our Committee on Laws, prior to the Christmas break, continued its work of analysing and improving the text by adopting amendments, some of which were tabled by the opposition, without any change in the objectives and guiding principles of the text. This new reading is probably the right time to recall the rules adopted in criminal matters, of which I am the rapporteur, by separating as clearly as possible, and it is not always simple, which is due to the reality of the law and to the political commitment which drives it from what constitutes false assessments or approximations, if not more. No, the rights of the defence are not infringed. No. The essential role of the lawyer is supported at all stages of the proceedings. At most, it is planned to comply with European law, which does not provide for its assistance when it is of no use for the exercise of the rights of defence. This is the case for simple transports or searches during police custody, which, unlike hearings or confrontations, in no way require the presence of counsel, as was very clearly laid down in a European rule in 2013. No, we are not witnessing a dehumanization of justice, as we would like to make it appear. It will always be rendered by magistrates, with the help, so indispensable, of clerks and civil servants, to whom the programming law gives special place. Digital exists, it is a reality, but it is only one tool among others, at the service of the actors of justice. The online complaint will simplify the procedures, if they so wish, for many victims who first need a receipt enabling them to assert their rights, particularly with regard to insurance. It should also be recognized that for serious crimes such as sexual abuse or domestic violence, it may be easier and more protective for some victims to contact the investigative services through this method without having to immediately push the door of a police station or gendarmerie, a sometimes traumatic approach. Of course, and that is the meaning of the debates that have animated us, there is no question of excluding direct contact between the victim and the investigator. It shall be carried out at the request of either party and shall in any event take place to ensure the characterization of the offence and the investigation. No, the bill does not sacrifice individual freedoms and does not contain any setbacks to rights. It aims to simplify the criminal procedure with a view to ensuring the effectiveness and refocusing of the tasks of each of the actors in the justice system. The position of the lawyer and the intervention of the magistrates, such as prosecutors, judges of freedoms and detention and investigating judges, is fully preserved, even if it is re-designed in certain aspects of the criminal procedure. Several provisions are intended to enhance the effectiveness of investigations by special techniques. They respond to the evolution of the increasingly elaborate methods used by offenders and must enable the State to ensure its fundamental role in protecting citizens and victims. No one can be against this objective. No, we are in no way trying the quality of the criminal trial, regardless of the level of the offence being tried. The establishment, on an experimental basis, of the criminal court will respond just as much to the congestion of the courts of assizes as to the need to ensure criminal convictions genuinely corresponding to the crimes committed and interrupting the too frequently observed drift of correction, in particular for rapes. There is no evidence to suggest that a trial by five professional magistrates for crimes punishable by 15 and 20 years' imprisonment would be of a lesser quality than that involving popular juries, or would meet less the requirements of the fundamental principles of criminal proceedings. On the contrary, she will respect the scale of sentences, give her full measure to the judicial debate and return, in case of appeal, to the court of assizes. No, we don't give in to the terrorist threat. It remains real, as the events in Strasbourg at the time of the holidays have cruelly reminded us. Our criminal response will be greatly strengthened, both in France and abroad, by the creation of the national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office, with extensive mobilization powers. Again, the victims, who are the primary concern of the public authorities through this law, will see their situation and their guarantees of compensation greatly improved by the intervention of the judge of compensation for victims of terrorist attacks. I could continue with the list of unwarranted criticisms that have been made of this bill, but, in fact, it is enough to make a reasonable reading of it to see that the objectives of simpler, faster, more accessible justice are fully achieved, without sacrificing anything to our fundamental principles and the protection of individual freedoms. Those involved in the criminal chain will see their role refocused and thereby strengthened. Victims will be better considered and the penal sanction will be more adapted to the personality of the perpetrators and to the security requirements of society – punishment, protection, insertion, as the minister pointed out. Our justice is moving forward. It becomes more effective, more effective, more protective for society and the justiciable. His public service modernises, adapts to the lives of the French, becomes more credible. Some of the new substantive issues have not been ruled out. Despite a different criminal policy, which will reserve the prison response to cases where the social pact is seriously broken, where the offender shows no will to amend, we must quickly increase the prison places and respond to the concern for human dignity that our society is facing. It is precisely the political commitment of the Government, which is technically reflected in the text before us. In the same vein, the criminal situation of minors is one of the major challenges of our century. Many of us consider that the Order of 2 February 1945, which had been amended thirty-nine times, needs to be clarified, better codified and improved in order to achieve the same objectives of speed, efficiency and protection of society and minors. The maturity of the minds in this matter will enable the Government to work by order, integrating the many contributions that are currently being made, including those of the excellent Jean Terlier and Cécile Untermaier, by leading, like the work of the courts, the necessary consultation. Far from excluding Parliament, these new provisions cannot come into force until the parliamentary debate and the ratification law have taken place. I am aware of the incomprehension of some legal professionals, which has been repeated twice. They are concerned about their future, about maintaining their place in the judicial chain, but a careful and benevolent reading of the text and its developments during the preliminary consultation and our debates, as well as the multiple political guarantees given by the minister, should reassure them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Nothing is done against legal professionals. Nothing is done against justice. On the contrary, everything is done for her.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u177	I have received a motion from Mr.Christian Jacob and members of the Republicans Group to reject beforehand pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure, on the proposed 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill. Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u178	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] I share your wishes for harmony around our institutions, Madam Minister. Without further delay, moreover, I offer you the opportunity to put them into practice. It has not escaped you that a national debate begins this day at the initiative of the President of the Republic. "At home, education, health, safety and justice are accessible to all regardless of the situation and the fortune." I have just quoted an excerpt from the letter to the French and French by Emmanuel Macron, President of the Republic, dated 13 January 2018. In the same text, the author, always addressing the French people, expresses himself in these terms: "For me, there are no prohibited questions". But, because there is always a "but" in the new world, although there are no prohibited questions, there are themes in the organization of this debate. The second of these themes is the organization of the State and public authorities. The author, whom I do not tire of citing, recalls that these public services, school, police, army, hospitals, courts, are indispensable but have a cost. It was time to find out. On the basis of this observation, but in manifest lack of ideas, he asked the French how they wanted the state to organize itself and improve its action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u179	We're well helped!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u180	"How can the state and local authorities improve to better respond to the challenges of our most difficult territories and what are you proposing? – letter to the French and French by Emmanuel Macron, President of the Republic, 13 January 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u181	You have good readings!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u182	It is the desired, promised debate offered to French and French people that opens today throughout the national territory. The entire French people, if I believe the President of the Republic, will therefore be able, from this day on, to debate, among other things, justice and the organisation of justice! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group – Ugo Bernalicis also applauds]] Would you, Madam Minister, fail to advise the President of the Republic that we are beginning today the new reading of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u183	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u184	The letter of the President of the Republic is signed, preceded by the mention "In confidence"! Trust in who? Trust in what? Obviously not in you who propose to us to examine this text notwithstanding the opening of the debate, thus depriving the nation of any discussion about one of the fundamental powers of the State. Trust in us, then? Trust in the National Assembly, which will now be able to exercise independence from the executive, which will demonstrate to the French that national representation remains independent and free of its choices, that nothing and no one can enslave it, by rejecting this text in respect of the presidential word and the voices that rise from the entire judicial world and the territory so that all can express themselves on the justice of tomorrow? By voting on this motion of rejection, we will be able to return to our constituencies tonight and tell all our fellow citizens that we have heard their appeals and that now we are going to listen to them, in order to build together the justice of tomorrow for France. In doing so, we will have respected the will of the President of the Republic and fully played our role as representatives of the French people. That is in keeping with the wish of harmony that you have expressed around our institutions. Any other solution would only be disdainful, disdainful and nullified, from the first day, of the consultation process desired by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u185	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u186	Let us take our responsibilities together, ladies and gentlemen, and let us offer the French the debate they are asking for and reject this text, which we will have every opportunity to return to, with the wishes expressed by our fellow citizens. Let us not minimize the stakes of this text, nor the importance of justice in our society. "In our democracy, justice fulfils a fundamental mission of the State that it cannot concede or alienate. No one can do justice to himself. Justice is a public service, it is done on behalf of the French people. A guardian of individual freedoms and the rule of law, she ensured the application of the law and guaranteed respect for the rights of everyone. It is up to it alone to decide, in complete neutrality, the conflicts between people and to sanction prohibited behaviour. In order to ensure the impartiality necessary for its tasks, the Constitution affirms the independence of the judiciary from the executive and legislative branches." These words, which I agree with, are taken from the website of the Ministry of Justice. And yet, there are many blows to the fundamental principles governing the functioning of our justice. Thus, justice would be a "fundamental mission of the State that it cannot concede or alienate"? However, there are many violations of this fundamental principle: the installation of dispute resolution platforms or referrals to the courts, the referral of judges to mediation, even if the litigants chose to refer them to settle their dispute... All these provisions, which you explain as a desire to refocus the judge on his office, are in fact sources of inequality. They will limit, or even prevent, access to the judge for the youngest, they will remove the defendant from the judge. This text voted, justice, a public service rendered on behalf of the French people, will no longer be. We will then have only one dispute resolution service among others, to the legitimacy tainted by the competition with other private services. It is not a question of trying alternative means of settlement, but of the willingness of your Government to make it an imposed and not a voluntary way of resolving disputes. There are many examples and I will have no difficulty in convincing you that there is no shortage of infringements of the principle of the inalienability of justice, as evidenced by the competence of the director of the family allowance fund in matters of maintenance. In fact, it is not a reform of the justice system that you are proposing, but a reform of the institution of justice, which seriously undermines the fundamental principles governing our judicial system. By making the courts of appeal disappear – because, you don't mind, they disappear to merge into the new court of justice – by taking away their name, identity, material and territorial jurisdiction, by turning them into mere branches of the parent jurisdiction, you expose all our fellow citizens to a profound upheaval of access to law and justice in the territory. We heard you wouldn't close any courts. Of which act. But it is not just you, and the system that you put in place will allow any head of jurisdiction, according to his needs and the staff available to him, to close a site on which the activity of court of instance was previously exercised, without consultation and to the detriment of the French. You will deny that, as you have always done since the beginning of this debate. The heads of jurisdiction will obviously not tell you, and yet many are already announcing future site closures if the text is adopted. To say so is not to be missed in the truth, minister, but to be lucid. Less access to the judge, more travel to do so: this is what we keep from this text and what will be the reality, if adopted in the form, for the people of tomorrow. Another demonstration is the testing of specialized call courses. You yourself have no idea what the point is. After proposing a test on two regions, you had the extension adopted to five, and finally back to two after proposing four. As we speak, we have no idea of the regions that will be affected – do you only know that? – nor the subjects on which these specialisations will focus. Approximation, trial, DIY, where justice must be rigorous, firm and above all stable. The defendant and the French are not guinea pigs. Behind each procedure, women and men expect the judge to settle their disputes in the same way throughout the national territory. You cannot take two regions hostage to test what you are unable to assess. Worse, because this text ultimately represents only a series of infringements of the fundamental principles governing both justice and our institutions, you decided, in the middle of its examination, even though you had repeatedly said the opposite, to be empowered to reform juvenile justice by order. By order, in six months, without consultation and consultation, you would like to draw the consequences of more than seventy years of implementing the 1945 Ordinance and propose a reform of the juvenile justice system without parliamentary debate. The parliamentary information mission created will not, with all the good will of the world, be able to shed useful light on you in such a short period of time. This prescription, you want it to have deferred effect. But since there is no urgency or congestion in Parliament, what do you respect the functioning of our institutions by submitting a bill to Parliament? This disregard for the powers of Parliament is not the only one, because we have been discussing this text for almost three months, after it has been examined by the Senate. You explained to us that it was the result of long work and endless consultation. You will note, by the way, that this consultation behind which you intend to take refuge is not unanimous, since at this moment all the judicial professions are located a few meters from here, on the esplanade of the Invalides, to show their complete rejection of the text that you submit to us. These professionals feel they have not been heard. They were listened to, but they were not heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u187	Exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u188	However, this text, which you consider to be so comprehensive and successful, still obliges you to be empowered to legislate by order in order, I quote, to "take the consequences" and to make "the necessary modifications to remedy any errors" – in that we can help you, because there are many – "and omissions of this Act". Finally, it allows you to completely rewrite the text and shape the justice of our country as you see fit. By trying, under budgetary constraints only, to reform one of the pillars of our democracy, the guarantor of public peace and the foundation of life in society, you are jeopardizing the balance of our society. So, as I said at the outset, let us be concordant, as you have expressed the wish, Madam Minister. Be reasonable. Let us hear the voice of the President of the Republic. Let the French speak on this subject, which is so essential for the future of our country. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, GDR and FI groups]] To do this, you have only one solution: to vote on the motion to reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u189	That's very clever!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the result of the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Number of voters: 399 White or invalid bulletins: 24 Suffrages expressed: 375 Absolute majority: 188 Have obtained: Mr. Francis Vercamer: 269 votes Mr. David Habib: 91 votes Ms. Mathilde Panot: 12 votes Others: 3 votes. [[Applause on all benches]] Mr. Francis Vercamer, having obtained an absolute majority of the votes cast, I declare him Vice-President of the National Assembly and extend my warmest and most sincere congratulations to him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u191	We come back to the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u192	The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u193	My first words will be for MP Francis Vercamer, who has just been elected Vice-President of your Assembly. Of course, on behalf of the Government, I extend my congratulations to him. In a few words, I would like to respond to the motion of rejection that Mr Savignat has just defended. You are proposing, Mr President, that we stop there, immediately, the work carried out for months, for hundreds of hours of debate in this House, to integrate the reflection on justice into the great national debate. First of all, I would like to tell you – and the President of the Republic wrote in his letter to the French – that the great national debate proposes four main topics for discussion. I do not repeat them before you, you know that they concern, among other things, taxation, the organisation of public services, democracy... The President added that the French would be able, if they wished, to take over any theme which, in a concrete way, would enable them to change their personal situation and make suggestions in that regard. If, therefore, the French wish to do so, they will, of course, be able to raise a number of points without having to stop our discussions here. But I would still like to make three observations. The first is that I believe a lot in representative democracy. This does not mean that it should not be accompanied by elements of participatory democracy, but I believe a lot in representative democracy, and I have a great deal of respect for Members of Parliament, for senators, for parliamentarians, who are trying to decrypt a text, explain it, carry it, amend it, and adopt it. It therefore seems to me extremely difficult, after the hundreds of hours of debate that have taken place in the Senate, and then here in your Committee on Laws and in this House, to remove all these parliamentary debates from a feather. I would like to point out two other things, Mr Savignat. In this great national debate, the demand for justice is apparent, you are right, and I agree with you. Like you, I listen enough to our fellow citizens to see that this requirement of justice transcends many areas. But the manner in which the President of the Republic speaks of this requirement of justice means that he refers to an immanent value, which does not result exclusively in questions of organization of the judicial system or procedural issues. The technicality of the subjects we have dealt with in the text which we have discussed here is not necessarily what is referred to in the speech of the President of the Republic, I am sure that you will easily agree: it is rather this necessary value, indispensable to a republic and to a democracy. It's not exactly the same meaning. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, I would like to say that the importance of the presence of public services in the territories is of course a concern that we share. And it's a good thing because, by the text that I'm proposing to you, and contrary to what your majority did about ten years ago, I repeat, I maintain all the courts. I don't have a card, as far as I'm concerned. You also discussed other topics. You mentioned the need to mark that justice is a fundamental mission of the State. I fully agree with your observation. That is why I believe it is essential to refocus the judges on what constitutes their core business, to involve them where they bring added value, rather than to have them perform acts that are sometimes far removed from the actual treatment of litigation. That is what we are doing in this bill. When you talk about digital online mediation platforms, you know like me, Mr. MP, that these platforms exist, that they populate, that they are everywhere, and that, precisely, the bill that I am wearing – which we are wearing, that the majority of Members of Parliament support – aims to establish systems that will regulate these platforms, and to certify those of them that provide ethical guarantees, related to the professionals who exercise them, in the implementation of the online resolutions that they suggest. We don't sell, we don't privatize justice. On the contrary, we regulate, to prevent our fellow citizens from facing difficult situations. You also refer to the prospect of disruptions in access to the law. Of course there will be. And there's not enough yet. I said: 2019 will be for me the year of work on access to the law. For I hope that, in the courts as well as in points of access to the law, and perhaps in public service houses, we will be able to increase the facilities for our citizens to access the information and procedures that fall within the scope of judicial litigation and the law in general. That is why I want further upheavals, so that our citizens are accompanied as closely as possible, in their rights and in their legal procedures. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, I do not understand, honourable Member, that you have allowed yourself to go to this ease of reasoning which has made you say that the heads of courts may be forced to close the courts. That's not true! It's deeply inaccurate! And I would like to know what text you use to say that. Do you know how to close a court? First of all, I have no intention of closing it, and moreover, I do not see how a head of jurisdiction – of which right? According to what text? On what legal basis? - could close a court.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u194	They'll ask you, Madam Minister! Because they won't have any other choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u195	The text that I propose to you does not give any capacity or basis to the heads of courts. You have also used three terms, Mr. Member: the law that I am wearing is approximation, trial, DIY. I'm sorry, it's absolutely not that. It's reflection, it's foresight, and it's coherence. It's been thinking, because it's been months since we've been working with professionals, with magistrates, with lawyers...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u196	They're on the street!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u197	...with parliamentarians. For months we have been working to bring our fellow citizens a law that reforms justice to give it more efficiency and quality. This is foresight, because I am convinced that we can no longer do justice as Saint Louis did under his oak. It is on other working methods that we must make progress. In this sense, the text I am proposing is forward-looking. Finally, Mr President, it is a coherent text, both on penalties and on criminal procedure, civil procedure and the organisation of courts. I therefore reject the triple qualifier that you have used, to replace it with reflection, foresight and coherence. I will conclude, since this is the last subject you have addressed, on the 1945 order. You are complaining to me that you have asked the legislator for an authorization to reform this text by order. I do not come back here on the few broad lines I have set myself. I am simply saying that the order is absolutely not intended to refuse parliamentary consultation or debate, since I have committed myself to two things before you. On the one hand, during the next six months, I will be carrying out a very broad consultation with professionals and parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u198	But there is a legislative procedure for this! What the hell is this?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u199	Working groups have already launched this reflection. On the other hand, and I have also said before you, this text will be the subject of a lengthy parliamentary debate when it is completed. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I have simply told you that I have been forced to work on time, so that the amendment of this text, which everyone wants, can finally succeed, which has never been the case before. Member, do not make me bear the responsibility for your own miseries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u200	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I have a request for a public vote before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In explanation of vote, the floor is Mr Stéphane Mazars.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u201	I would like to begin by congratulating Francis Vercamer on his election to the Vice-President of the National Assembly on behalf of the La République group on its progress. To respond quickly to the arguments put forward by our colleague from the Republicans, I would like to point out that we are again reading this text, which was widely debated in the Senate and then here in committee, before being discussed for long hours in the Chamber. We have re-examined it in committee and we are now seeing this work as a parliamentarian that still honours what we are – Members of Parliament, representatives of the nation, who have all the legitimacy, today, to bring the debate to the end of this text. My colleague wants to see an opportunity today for a rapprochement between black dresses and yellow vests, since he calls for a different examination of this text until the conclusions of the debates which are now being held in order to put an end to the yellow vest crisis. But when we, Members, had the opportunity to go to the roundabouts and meet the yellow vests – and I received them at my permanence – they rarely talked about the fact that intellectual property files were no longer dealt with in Aveyron, but in Marseilles. They have very rarely raised the question of whether or not to be represented by a lawyer in the handling of disputes in the Rural Leases Joint Court. (Exclaims on the benches of the GDR and FI groups.)
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u202	Nor did they mention the ISF or the sharing of wealth!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u203	They referred, on the other hand, to the fragility of the department since the departure of several public services, including that of the judiciary. This is not 18 months old, but several years old, of the Dati reform. This has caused real trauma within my territory as a result of the disappearance of several jurisdictions. This was the purpose of your policy, on which we are returning, but this is not the purpose of our project. (Applause from a few benches of the LaREM Group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u204	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u205	I too would like to congratulate the new Vice-President of the National Assembly. Mr Mazars, it is true that parliamentary debates have been lengthy, but we must be honest: very few amendments of the oppositions have been adopted and the first reading of the Assembly has consisted essentially in restoring the original text of the Government by deleting all the additions of the Senate, which, for the most part, agreed to us. On the other hand, it must be noted that the consultation carried out upstream did not bear fruit, since the legal professionals are on the street, including, my dear colleague from Aveyron, those of our department. In addition, the particular context of the major national debate should be taken into account. Since this text is very technical, of course, the people who are demonstrating today do not know the details of it. On the other hand, litigants will see the consequences, in particular in terms of removal, when the specialisation of the courts will result in the processing of cases elsewhere than in local courts. Other solutions are possible to reform the justice system: judges could move close to the litigants, because there is no sub-tribunal in our country. Finally, we have a major disagreement on access to the law: we cannot accept it being so diminished. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why the Republican Group will vote on this motion to reject it beforehand. Our initial wish would have been to defend a motion for referral to committee: this was not possible for procedural reasons. We wish to express our disagreement with all the measures contained in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u206	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u207	On behalf of the Democratic and Related Movement Group, I too would like to congratulate the new Vice-President, Mr Vercamer. We are surprised by the tabling of a motion of rejection at this stage of our debate. We have already worked more than 250 hours on the text. Everyone was able to amend it: several amendments were rejected – this is the law of parliamentary debate – but others were adopted. The situation is, moreover, special, since the new reading takes place directly after our first reading. I therefore confess that I find it difficult to understand this motion. You argue that the major national debate should be opened to justify the closure of our work on the text. But I can attest to this as Mr Mazars: the yellow vests with which I spoke told me about the slowness of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u208	You agreed with them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u209	On this point, yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u210	There was at least one!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u211	They referred to the fact that some, six months or even a year after initiating legal proceedings, had still not received a response. This is the philosophy of the text: to increase efficiency, speed and proximity. That is why the MODEM and related groups will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u212	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u213	You know the lack of taste I have for the motions for rejection and referral back to committee, all the more so in a new reading. However, these motions must be regarded as the expression of very great reservations, of very strong doubts about texts submitted to us. This is the case today in this text on justice. Minister, these are not upheavals we are waiting for, but appropriations, means, and a better anchor of justice in the neighbourhood. Moreover, contrary to what you said, I remember that following the Dati reform, fairground hearings had been promised in some departments, in order to ensure greater proximity. However, these hearings did not take place or were discontinued, as a result of the heads of jurisdiction. The principle of reality must therefore give us caution in this matter. Unlike others, I do not question your good faith or your willingness to do well. On the other hand, we must guarantee these arrangements on an ongoing basis. However, despite the many amendments we have tabled, we have not achieved a sufficient level of guarantee. That is why the Socialist and Related Group will vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u214	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u215	[[Smile]] I can only associate myself with the compliments addressed to Francis Vercamer: that the best of us become vice-president of the National Assembly is justice! I share the view of Mrs Untermaier, who asked the right questions, those which were also ours during the debate: what will happen to local justice? What will we do with dematerialization? What will be the place of the accused and the victims? At this stage of our work, however, it is time to continue our discussions in the Chamber and we will continue them. On the other hand, I am concerned about your answer, minister: you have used us to greater tolerance, and I have found you somewhat aggressive. I am concerned, I repeat, because if we are in favour of rejecting this motion, it is in the hope that our amendments can be considered. It would be time, indeed, at the end of our debates, for opposition amendments to be carefully studied, because they deserve it. Their purpose is not to provoke upheavals, it is to offer accompaniments. If we all succeed in adopting them together, then we would enrich this text, which, as has been recalled, after all these hours of debate, is almost in the same state as at first reading, which is nevertheless very surprising. The MODEM and related groups will therefore vote against this motion for a preliminary rejection, with the hope of moving the text forward by voting on a number of amendments which deserve to be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u216	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u217	[[Applause]] I wish Mr Vercamer courage in his new office, even if I had a preference for Mathilde Panot, who would probably have also been an excellent vice-president of our House. It would have been, in addition, a beautiful gift for her birthday! The La France insoumée group will vote in favour of this motion of rejection, first because it is supported by all legal professionals. You have succeeded, Madam Minister, in keeping the active mobilization of lawyers, registry staff and two judicial unions, the Judicial Union and the Union of Magistrates' Union, which I believe has never happened before. Some believed that last April's demonstration would sign the end of the movement, because the works of justice, this great debate and this consultation that you organized within the justice system, would bear fruit. However, at the end of the process, there are all those on the street that I have just mentioned, raised against your bill. And they're right to oppose it. Indeed, your project was, in the end, developed in an authoritarian and abrupt manner. There has been no real discussion, so we find the text presented at first reading again. The only changes he has experienced are the result of internal discussions with your majority, or in cases where you have found it wiser to step back a little bit here or there. The rapporteur even announced earlier that she would propose some marginal changes. So, is the new reading useful for anything, or for nothing? I don't know where to give a head anymore! On the other hand, what is certain is that justice will not be one of the themes of the great national debate. Moreover, as the President of the Republic has stated, none of the decisions that have been taken for eighteen months will be part of it: it is out of the question of reviewing everything that has been done... [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Since, unfortunately, the issue of justice will not be debated by the country, we will vote in favour of this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u218	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u219	In the speech of the President of the Republic last December, we seemed to hear a word of contrition: it was a question of too great verticality, of arrogance in the way of governing... However, we resume our work with a bill that is emblematic of this verticality and arrogance, in any case the lack of consideration of the intermediate bodies and the persons concerned, since it meets the hostility of the majority, or even the almost unanimous nature of the judiciary. If only to remain faithful to the word of contrition of the President of the Republic, to allow the country to regain, through necessary dialogue, the path of concord and to take into account the views of the first concerned among the actors, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote this motion of rejection beforehand. The debate should be given its full place in order to reach a consensus on such an important subject for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u220	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u221	The Libertés et Territoires Group will abstain on the motion to reject it beforehand: it is appropriate, on a new reading, to enter into the heart of the matter. Each will assume its responsibilities at the end of the review of the text, according to its final wording.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u222	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u223	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 153 Number of votes cast 152 Absolute majority 77 For adoption 57 Against 95
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u224	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republicans Group to reject beforehand pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure on the draft organic law on the strengthening of the organisation of courts. On this motion of rejection, I have a request for a public vote before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u225	This draft organic law implements, at the statutory level, the reforms of the judicial organization under the ordinary draft law, in particular the merger of the courts of procedure and the courts of main instance and the establishment, on an experimental basis, of a departmental criminal court. Our group is opposed to this organic bill because it strongly opposes your comprehensive justice reform project. With this project, Madam Minister, what are your objectives? You promise us to "build justice that is more readable, accessible, simpler and more effective." These words with the most technocratic relents, you hammered them on us for months. For my part, I find them particularly blurred and I find it difficult to understand the content of them. I therefore wondered what our fellow citizens expected of their justice. After all, maybe that's the real question! Have you been there ever since you kept the seals? Have you ever wondered what the French wanted in this area? As some of us have pointed out, justice professionals are currently speaking out on the street! [[Rites and exclamations]] But, am I stupid: your majority is so smart, so stupid... I'm sorry, so subtle!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u226	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u227	If you think the lapsus was revealing, I'll leave that appreciation to you... Thus, your majority is so intelligent, so subtle and so technical that it obviously has no need to listen to people who are nothing, alcoholic lazy people, Gauls who are resistant to any change. I do not provoke you, Madam Minister: I simply express my very great reprobation at the remarks made against some of our compatriots. Does the Government believe that it will be able to administer France for a long time by derogating so much from the French and French? So, what do our fellow citizens want? Nothing simpler, in truth: they wait for the right to be said quickly when they are in conflict. If they are victims of a criminal offence, they hope that the sanctions will be quick, if not immediate, and that the sentences imposed will be effective. Do you really think that your justice project satisfies our fellow citizens and the nation we represent here? Our House is full of history: the National Assembly has fought hard to uphold our republican ideal. We can be proud to be there, but we have a duty without appeal, to debate and to say things frankly. That is why I must tell you today that the Members of the Group of the European People's Party The Republicans consider that your project is not good for French and French people. Today, the latter are still unaware of the substance of this text. When they find out what the justice of tomorrow will look like, they will not have enough words to express their reproaches – and they will be right! On the substance, Antoine Savignat has perfectly explained the unacceptable aspects of your reform in the context of the previous motion. However, I would like to remind them briefly: the removal of the judge, the dehumanisation of procedures, the algorithmic justice, the erasure of local justice, the merger of courts and the risk of disappearance for some of them – on this issue, Madam Keeper of the Seals, your anger seems rather revealing to me – the disappearance of popular juries for a number of crimes, the precarisation of the rights of the weakest, the renunciation of the need to build the number of prison places today, the insufficient budget compared to the budgets of the justice of the equivalent nations on the European continent. But I remind you that distance creates distrust, that precarization generates unequal feeling and that the renunciation of means in the prison world nourishes the feeling of impunity for the culprits and injustice for the victims – all ingredients that are conducive to fuelling the widespread distrust expressed both by the yellow vest crisis and in countless writings of political science and opinion studies. Some members of the Government, in their vain strategy of decredivizing their contradictors, improvised their own historians and wanted to compare our times to the 1930s. They were right, but they got the wrong century! They were thinking about 1930, but I think it's about 1830. At that time, Charles X was the monarch and Polignac was the president of the Council of Ministers. Both were prisoners of their immanent theoretical superiority, well-born and well-educated aristocrats forgetting the transcendence of national sovereignty. In defiance of the real, as the barricades multiplied in Paris, the monarch and his minister played cards to the sound of the cannon. We know what's next. Minister, your reform proposal can satisfy Bercy. It can satisfy you, because you may not be able to understand the full political significance of it. He can satisfy the most affluent or thugs, but he won't satisfy the French. This is another subject that will be put on the Government's hands when the time comes. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for communication and blind partisanship must end. Break the sectarianism that makes you ignore without discernment the amendments and proposals of the oppositions present here, and active, to the point of fuelling popular protests that we are accused of not listening, understanding or defending! Would our parliamentary system have lived? Do we have to change our Republic because we no longer have enough courage to make ours work? If this is your behaviour, what credibility can the great debate launched today, except to have to bluff the nation? Our colleagues in the Senate have done remarkable work on these justice reform bills, as has already been said. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, are you going to sweep him away by an obtuse vote? You have already done so for their proposal for a law on breakers, before you are about to resume, at the request of the Government, except for the whole of their ideas, at least the vast majority of them. Let us save time, ladies and gentlemen! Stop subjugating yourself! Vote, in your soul and conscience, as representatives of the people, what is good for the country rather than what serves the disastrous technocratic strategy of the executive! The texts we examine give you an additional opportunity to reveal yourself in the role that the institutions attribute to you – a role that you have so far ignored, ignored or despised for the overwhelming majority of you. You are the representatives of the nation and not the docile substitutes of the executive power. The French look at you and judge you. Through you, they also judge national representation and its role in the balance of powers. That is why I call on you to vote on this motion to reject it beforehand. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] And happy New Year, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u228	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u229	Thank you for your wishes, Mr. Masson! I would just like to reassure you on one point: yes, I often ask myself what the French expect from their justice. This is even what I do every day, or even several times a day, by constantly questioning how we can improve the public service of justice. And it seems to me that the provisions contained in the texts that I submit to your examination and vote make it possible to improve justice for the French. You blame me for not knowing what the French expect from their justice. But I understood a few things. I understood that the French consider that their justice is too little funded: that is why we have considerably increased its budget. I will not repeat the whole demonstration, but I do not understand, Mr Masson, that you accused us of being under Bercy's compulsion. How is Bercy involved in the choices we make even though we are proposing an increase of €1.6 billion? The French also consider that their justice is too slow. It is difficult to guarantee that we will render judgments tomorrow in a much shorter time frame. However, that is what we are trying to do, in this bill and in the organic bill that accompanies it, by amending civil procedure and simplifying many provisions – I am thinking of divorces, but I could cite other examples. That is how we intend to fight against deadlines that the French find too long. The French finally consider justice too complex. As regards the organisation of the courts and on many other points which I will have the opportunity to develop before you in the course of the debate, we are therefore trying to make things more legible, simpler and clearer. An administrative tribunal, a judicial tribunal, a judge of protection disputes: things are clearer, easier to understand for the French. That's my intention anyway. The French don't always trust justice anymore.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u230	We could talk about Alexander Benalla again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u231	I'm not saying they don't trust the magistrates and the justice staff...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u232	They don't trust you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u233	...but they don't always trust the functioning of our system. I said earlier: when a sentence is handed down but it is not executed, or differently, justice loses its credibility. I agree with you: the French want local justice in cases where they should see a judge in order to deal with disputes that concern them. That's exactly what we're doing. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] There you go, Mr. Masson. Yes, I wonder what the French think of their justice. I'm trying to listen to what I'm told. I am also listening to parliamentarians: many amendments have been adopted, coming from all groups – all of them. I don't ignore anyone and I don't despise anyone – these are two accusations that I refute.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u234	In the explanations of vote, the floor is for Mr Jean Terlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u235	To respond to our excellent colleague Jean-Louis Masson, yes, this bill on justice responds to the wishes of the litigants. The minister has pointed out that what people today want is additional means, but also simpler justice, faster justice and, finally, local justice. This bill meets these four objectives. We have already talked about the additional resources: €1.6 billion over the five-year period, an increase of 25%; 6500 jobs and 15,000 prison places; EUR 500 million for the digitisation of our public justice service. The additional resources are therefore present. As for simpler justice, tomorrow we will merge the courts of first instance with the courts of first instance in order to create the courts of first instance: the litigant will no longer have to ask himself what the competent court is. Simplification will also involve the massive development of alternative dispute resolution methods. Making justice faster is also the ambition of this reform. I am thinking of the divorce procedure, but also of the possibility for the CAF to revalue the amounts of maintenance: it is unacceptable for the poorest people that a simple revision of maintenance takes more than six months! Finally, this law promotes community justice, unlike Bill Dati, in particular by preserving the full range of places of justice. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u236	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u237	Madam Minister, it is amusing that at the end of your speech you pointed out that you did not show contempt in the discussion of this text. Yet, in replying to Antoine Savignat, you underlined our group's supposed lack of confidence in the reform of the justice system! So it would seem that we were not paying enough attention to our reflection on the reform of the justice system? But if we hadn't been so involved in the discussion of this text, perhaps you wouldn't have been annoyed to the point of using words that certainly go beyond your thoughts! If there's one thing I need to recognize, it's good that you yourself have not shown any unsure. On the contrary, you have taken meticulous care to carry out your reform and to hide from the people a number of things that we have repeatedly repeated. Behind your technocratic reform is a distance from justice for the justiciable. Due to the virtual obligation to go through digital platforms, it will be more difficult to access the judge and we will see the dehumanization of the justice of everyday life. You put a meticulous care to hide, to hide the figures you announce behind an alleged increase in the budget of justice, by combining prison administration and means made available to the magistrates. What you're hiding is that the supposed increase in your ministry's budget is not even enough to build the few prison places you're committed to creating during this quinquennium. The reality of this text, Madam Minister, is that you have taken great care to hide a reform that will destroy our judicial system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u238	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u239	For the same reasons as before, the MODEM and related groups will vote against this motion of rejection. To put it bluntly, these motions for prior rejection are, at this stage of our discussions, a little lost time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u240	Is Parliament decorative? Everything we do is decorative?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u241	No, that's not what I mean, Mr. Furst!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u242	A little respect!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u243	Only Mr Balanant, even if he has reactions, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u244	Thank you, Mr. President. We have already done a great deal of work on this subject, and this text raises real expectations on the part of our fellow citizens. So let's not waste time and move forward. There is still a whole reading, and 777 amendments have been tabled. So we will still be able to work on the text and amend it. The seal keeper is committed to transforming and improving certain devices. Let us therefore vote against this motion of rejection and move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u245	Let's start the milling machine with the right ideas!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u246	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u247	It is often a bit surreal, in fact, to vote on a motion to reject it beforehand at this stage of the debate and our group is, therefore, usually rather reserved in this procedure. However, we also know that today's debate has something curious. We are told at the same time that there are real problems in the institutions which justify the opening of a great national debate, but that as regards justice, an institution which is so important for our society, circulate, there is nothing to see, it is enough to apply what was planned before the serious crisis which our country has just experienced with the yellow vests! That doesn't make sense. It is therefore all the more necessary to separate ourselves from this text because its general orientation is precisely to propose that we go towards more dehumanized procedures and machines, to go towards the gradual disappearance of men – those who are in the courts, who support individuals, who console them and who support them in the proceedings. By making the man disappear more and more from the proceedings, you increase the malaise of our fellow citizens in the face of a dehumanized society. This is not in the right direction. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Alain Bruneel also applauds]] You have here, Madam Minister, a unique opportunity to suspend this procedure and these developments which do not seem to us favourable, and instead to put your work on the profession so that, in these national debates, we can start thinking again about the justice we want – a human justice, done by men and with men. This is where your text sins: it wants to be modern and is simply not human.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u248	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u249	Madam Minister, you have just said that the parliamentary debate had borne fruit by taking as evidence that amendments from all sides had been adopted, insisting on these last words. Not you! Not that! I warned you that the adoption of an amendment by France to supplement a request for a report on the question of women in detention cannot be the argument that would allow you to state that you had incorporated amendments from all groups, while we are in massive and complete opposition to your text and that you have made no effort to incorporate the logic we support about the idea of justice. It would cost you absolutely nothing to adopt this amendment, and you even rejected amendments by your majority quite similar to mine for the sole purpose of being able to say what you said earlier! Enough sleeve effects! We are not – that is the case – in a court of law, Madam Minister, and you are not a lawyer. Or the lawyer defending a poor justice system that you want to keep... It would therefore be more than wise to stop examining this text, to give up, at least to the legal professionals and perhaps to the litigants, if they could organize themselves to oppose it. In fact, the current law already makes it quite complicated today to go before the judges and to organize legally: tomorrow, with pre-meditated mediations, it will be impossible mission! Finally, when you don't get along with a person, you can't agree with her to go to the judge! We're walking on the head. When people are in conflict, they will see the judge precisely because they can't agree, otherwise they wouldn't be there! There are a thousand and one reasons to oppose this text and it would therefore be wiser to vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u251	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u252	Minister, let us be realistic: at this time of proliferation of disagreements of all kinds, this organic bill succeeds in bringing about a unanimous rejection on the part of the judiciary and of 100% of those who really know the content of it. Beyond this content, the method of forceful passage, marked by the seal of blindness and deafness, or even arrogance, which the Government has shown so far, is shocking. In substance, the obsession of diversion and privatisation which characterizes this text will lead to further exclusion of the most vulnerable citizens and will set the stage for a two-speed justice system, particularly in the overseas countries and territories. Finally, you confuse speed and haste, and the use of the opaque means of the ordinance to validate whole sections of this text, and not least, in the name of a hypothetical urgency that you impose on yourself, constitutes an attack in good standing against transparency and parliamentary intelligence. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote in favour of this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u253	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u254	We will also abstain from this motion of rejection in order to show the reservations that this project inspires, particularly with regard to the judicial map, which we still fear, because it is a French evil. "Big is beautiful," certainly, but we believe on the contrary that what is small is effective for our fellow citizens. Proximity is very important to us, and I know that we will be discussing amendments on this. We also have some concerns and reservations about simplification. The Liberties and Territories Group will therefore abstain, knowing that this will not prevent the debate from taking place. We will take part in this, taking on board many of our ideas that we have already defended at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u255	We are done with explanations of vote. I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u256	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 107 Number of votes cast 105 Absolute majority 53 For adoption 32 Against 73
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u257	On the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill, I received a motion from Ms.Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialist and Related Group to refer the matter to committee pursuant to rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u258	The tenth wave of the survey conducted over the past ten years on our institutions by the Centre de recherches politiques de Sciences Po – CEVIPOF – is instructive and revealing of the distrust that is taking place, I do not teach you anything, between the French and their political class. It is also very revealing on one point: of all public services, the one that has the least confidence on the part of the French is justice. Only banks, trade unions and political parties have even less confidence, that is to say! There must be reasons for this. The only question that should lead your action should therefore be the following: will your reform of the justice system, yes or no, have the effect of reducing the distrust that the French have for justice? The Socialist Group and I fear that the answer will be negative, and I will take a few examples to explain this. First of all, Madam Keeper of the Seals, it seems to me important to note the many oppositions that have arisen against your text. The Defender of Rights is against. Lawyers, magistrates, clerks and the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights are opposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u259	[[Smile]] Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u260	If so many institutions are opposed to your text, it must have reasons, which cannot be purely corporatist, Madam Keeper of the Seals! Let me start with a few examples that may affect the lives of all our fellow citizens, and first of all the case of maintenance paid in the event of divorce by one of the parents to the one who has custody of the children. Today, only the family judge is entitled to administer an application for a review of the amount of the pension. Tomorrow, if your reform is adopted, the family allowance fund will be able to change the amount of maintenance decided by a judge. The revision would then operate on the basis of a national scale, rather than on a case-by-case basis. Thus, the device you wish to experiment with would not allow to take into account the diversity of personal situations. On the contrary, we believe that every case deserves special attention in this justice of the day. What you are proposing is therefore irresponsible, especially when looking at the figures. The judge fixes maintenance for 82 per cent of the children involved in the divorce of their parents. Your reform can thus weaken, Madam Keeper of the Seals, a considerable number of children. The second example is the litigation divorce procedure. You propose, in your reform, that the conciliation phase should be abolished, as if this phase were of no use. However, it serves two purposes: to sign the record of acceptance of divorce – that is, simply to declare that one wishes to divorce – and to set interim measures governing the life of the couple until judgment. It's still not annoyance! There are 130,000 divorces each year in France, half of them by mutual consent. This means that the other half is part of the litigation divorce procedure. You thus deprive 65,000 couples of the conciliation phase. Given the stakes and the importance of this figure, it is irresponsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u261	That's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u262	The third example that shows that the defence of the rights of our citizens is weakened by your reform: that of a citizen who has been fraudulently abused by a life insurance trader – that can happen, we can all know such cases. First of all, your text extends the time for the prosecutor to respond to a complaint from three to six months before the victim can refer the matter to the judge – that's section 34. Then, your reform allows the investigating judge to refuse, on the basis of justification, the opening of an information, i.e. an investigation. You will reply that you have provided for safeguards by ensuring that the civil party can always request, by direct summons to the correctional court, that new elements be examined. However, the costs associated with this summons will be borne by the civil party, while they are now paid in connection with the investigation. In addition, the investigation has rights that cannot be enjoyed by the civil party. Suppose, for example, that the investigation requires a request for bank statements; This can happen. At present, the investigating judge cannot be opposed to bank secrecy, while a defendant will be opposed, and that is quite normal. Madam Keeper of the Seals, how do you respond to this very concrete case? For our part, we denounce the possibility that you plan to interrupt an ongoing investigation in this way. We have also tabled a withdrawal amendment to allow the accused, in the context of a direct summons, to refer the matter to the investigating judge for a list of information necessary for his defence, which cannot be obtained otherwise, i.e. without going through the judge. In essence, the most embarrassing thing is that the Government, on the one hand, says it wants to combat financial crime, and on the other, it reduces the means to defend itself against this financial crime. You will tell me that this may be a translation of the "at the same time", but the "at the same time" which aims to do the opposite of what is announced is always very dangerous in terms of democracy. Another example of this "at the same time" which results on the contrary from what is announced: you propose to create experimentally a departmental criminal court, which would be responsible for the trial in first instance of adults accused of crimes punishable by 15 or 20 years' imprisonment not committed in recidivism. Indeed, if adopted, this measure would undermine the equality of citizens by introducing a hierarchy of crimes according to whether they are examined by the departmental criminal court or by the assize court. This is for example the case of rapes punishable by 15 years' imprisonment: with your reform, they will no longer be tried by the assize court but by the departmental criminal court. While rape trials can now be corrected, i.e. re-qualified as offences, this requires the consent of the victim. However, with your reform, there will no longer be a need for the victim's agreement: with this experiment, it will no longer be necessary. Moreover, this experiment would tend to call into question several essential principles of criminal procedure: the presence of a popular jury, because the departmental criminal court would be composed solely of professional magistrates, and above all the very important principle of the orality of the proceedings and of the adversarial principle, which allow the popular jury before which the evidence and the defences must be presented to make an informed decision. Indeed, the explanatory memorandum to this bill provides that the hearings of the departmental criminal court will take place "with a reduced principle of orality of the proceedings". Thus, on the one hand, your colleague from the Government of Marlène Schiappa says he wants to strengthen the fight against sexual and gender-based violence and on the other, you plan, through this reform, to diminish the scope of the condemnation of rape: it is purely unacceptable and scandalous! More generally, the Socialist Group defends a simple principle: access to the public service of justice. This implies, at a minimum, the right to meet with a judge at a public hearing, even for everyday litigation. However, with your reform, this will no longer be possible for very simple disputes, which are part of the daily life of our citizens – for example consumer disputes, which are certainly minimal in terms of amounts but which certainly exist. And what will the millions of French who do not have access to the Internet do when, as a result of this law, they will have to go through an online conciliation platform, as provided for in Article 3, or when the procedure will be completely dematerialized, that is, without a hearing?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u263	Excellent question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u264	Finally, the speeding up of proceedings and the lowering of the costs of the public service of justice raise a series of issues related to access to the judge for the most deprived and the eventual disappearance of a number of trial courts. If it is true that your text does not provide for the removal of a court, its application should inevitably lead to it. By rationalizing to the extreme the procedures and the organisation of the courts, by dematerializing by forced march, you will certainly manage to make justice faster and less expensive but it will be especially less fair, and it is this balance that we denounce. This project that you are submitting to us today is also an admission of failure: that of method and dialogue. While the President of the Republic is launching the great national debate at this very moment, you are presenting a text that is everything but the result of the consultation and debate – or a very small-circle debate between your cabinet and a few heads of the Chancery department. The President of the Republic cannot say that all the debates are open and, "at the same time", let you close that of the role of justice of tomorrow in catini. If the time is ripe for the redefinition of public policies and a reflection on the place of the State, the time is also ripe for this text to be referred back to committee, in order to give it a new turn corresponding to what our fellow citizens really want. The President of the Republic rightly stresses that consideration must be given to the establishment of public services in our territories. What are you proposing in this bill? Simply to reduce their presence in the long run. The desire for justice that is strongly manifested by the yellow vest crisis is not simply a desire for social justice for all: it is also the desire for justice for all and for all. An ardent desire not to feel despised – and, Madam Minister, one is despised when one speaks only to a computer and no longer to a judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u265	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u266	A desire to be considered regardless of their level of resources, regardless of where they live. The prospects that you offer here clearly show that the opposite is the case: a two-speed justice, one fast and with additional remedies for the richest, the other slower and less effective for the poorest; justice for the inhabitants of the big cities who can easily push the judge's door, justice for the inhabitants of the countryside who will soon have to make hours of transport to see their case judged. Since the French strongly demand the Government's ear, it may be time to listen to them. When, this noon, lawyers, magistrates, litigants and defenders of fundamental rights come together to protest against this reform, what answer do you give them? None! To the glaring lack of means of justice, you respond with an additional rationing. In conclusion, it is not acceptable in democracy to give up its political responsibility and delegate it to the heads of jurisdiction. However, this is what you are doing by requiring them to decide on the judicial presence on the territory. This decision is your responsibility, not that of the heads of the courts. You therefore leave it to others to do the low work, namely the reduction of the courts made inevitable by the logic of your text. Members of the nation, we are fully responsible and aware of the political responsibilities; But today, you want to force us to delegate this decision to others. We must assume the budgetary choices, we must assume the presence on French territory of the courts. The reform you are proposing is only a form of hypocrisy since you close the ban by leaving it to others to decide. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr. Laurent Furst also applauds]] For all these reasons, we are tabling this motion for referral to committee. We are tabling this motion for referral to committee in order to obtain the answers to the questions that you have not wanted to answer so far. We are tabling this motion for referral back to committee so that all our fellow citizens, litigants, magistrates, lawyers who, again, marched today in Place Saint-Michel, in Paris, are heard. It is not a corporatist logic: it is a question of providing an answer to the CEVIPOF's inquiry according to which justice is, of all public services, all!, the one that inspires the least confidence to the French. Only banks, trade unions and political parties do less!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u267	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u268	A motion for referral to committee assumes that the work was not done initially. I understand that it is difficult for you to perceive it, since you are not a member of this committee and you have not been seen in the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u269	Oh, stop...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u270	She's a group president, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u271	In fact, the commission sat for at least sixty hours, sixty hours of work...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u272	I could have made the same motion, and I'm a member!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u273	Mr rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u274	I'm listening! Sixty hours of substantive work, sixty hours to explain, to go into every detail of this text and show how far we are, but really far from the explanation you are making. To be honest, dear colleague, my arms fall. I have the impression, since the beginning, and not only with you, that we are not talking about the same text and that we do not have the same vision of things.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u275	You're in another reality, that's clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u276	You stopped the counters at a time that was very much earlier than in our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u277	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u278	You say that the French do not trust their justice: you are right! That is precisely why we want to reform justice and simplify its working methods, in order to make it effective, effective, with the sole aim of helping our fellow citizens, who are often lost before the judicial world. Stop talking about hypocrisy: The minister has explained ten times, twenty times, thirty times the substance and purpose of the text, this objective that we want to achieve in common. There's no wolf!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u279	It's a trick!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u280	Oh, Ugo... There is no wolf, but a clear vision: no closure of jurisdiction, and a philosophy to strengthen the effectiveness of justice. And above all, in any way, contempt! You used this particularly violent term of contempt: contempt for whom, contempt for what, contempt by whom?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u281	The contempt of litigants and legal practitioners!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u282	On the contrary, we have all worked together to ensure that justice is no longer despised. Together, we have ensured that justice is conducted at the level expected by the French, and the Government is fully responding to this question. The desire for justice remains as present. The desire for justice presupposes listening and concertation: it has been carried out for more than a year, with the opening of the courts. As you know, this substantive work has been done since October 2017: it is not today! So your examples, frankly... He's not deafer than the one who doesn't want to hear!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u283	That's why you're experts! There are millions of French people on the street!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u284	[[Exclaims on the SOC, FI and GDR panels]] You really don't want to hear it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u285	Why are we talking then?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, please! Only the rapporteur has the floor. I have already noted the requests of all the groups wishing to give an explanation of vote on this motion for referral to committee. I invite you to wait a few moments before expressing your views. Mr rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u287	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u288	You're a lesson giver! All the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u289	Who is giving lessons in the circumstances? Your example on the criminal court...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u290	The example of life insurance is very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u291	Let me have the right to answer questions that do not concern referral back to committee! That's what you've done, I'm taking the same freedom of speech. You conspure the criminal court, in a rather ridiculous way, because what you say does not correspond in any way to reality. Why do you want to obtain the consent of the victims even though we finally offer them the ability to bring the perpetrators before a court for the reality of the charges? So far, the opposite is true: people who should appear before a court of assizes do not do so for bad reasons, even if they have been negotiated with the victim. The real objective is for the perpetrator of a crime punishable by 15 to 20 years' imprisonment to appear before a court that will sentence him to 15 or 20 years' imprisonment, not a substitute of justice like the one you still call of your wishes. I'll stop there.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u292	What about life insurance?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u293	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I almost find it difficult to give you these explanations, as they seem to me to be oriented towards the past. We look to the future! The Republic on the move and MODEM groups are looking to the future, to the justice of tomorrow, which will give all their effectiveness to these provisions; A justice that will not forget the quality of public service, a justice that will be effective and protect the French – a justice that will protect us all.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u294	In the explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee, Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u295	I immediately lift the suspense: we will reject this motion. You had started well, Mrs. Rabault, stressing the need to restore confidence in our justice, but then your words can be summed up by the phrase "it's not right, but let's not change anything." This summary of the past thirty years is surprising when we have just proclaimed the need to restore confidence in our justice. Previously, I was surprised by the words of Mr Savignat or Mr Masson: Mr Savignat could play in Faust: "I am the spirit that denies everything". Indeed, it is wrong to say that we have had few debates, although these have been sustained and long, since they have lasted for more than three months. Contrary to what has been said, significant progress is being made on the financial front, on the search for efficiency and speed of justice, on recruitment, on the digital switchover – yes, justice must also go digital,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u296	Who said it wasn't?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u297	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ...otherwise this institution would lose a lot of credibility in most generations – on supervision of guardianship or on juvenile justice – in which we all know that the law must evolve, and quickly, because it has been expected for many years. In short, it is a far-reaching reform, which does not remove any place of justice. This is a crucial point: this text is not the reform of Rachida Dati! This reform is very different from the others – which is probably the reason why some people do not understand it – and we hope that it will be adopted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u298	What a talent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u299	Yes, five years to train among the socialists, then five years with this majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u300	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u301	Madam Keeper of the Seals, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I am not used to arguing, but the current questioning of the republican order and our democratic system results above all...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u302	Forty-year review!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u303	... – not to mention the previous forty years – the lowering of Parliament wanted by this majority, who had promised a change of practice. For example, representatives of the majority believe that a high number of hours of discussion in committee and in the Chamber is worth a debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u304	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u305	How many amendments tabled by the oppositions – whatever they may be – have been adopted on these two texts? How much? We are reduced to motions for rejection or referral, because you did not want to hear the nuances that we wanted to bring to this text. You have detrigued the amendments that have been made in the Senate. In total, this text is still full of fine-tuning elements. An example among others is the question, not decided in committee, of the fixing of maintenance payments by the directors of the family allowance funds: the current text provides that the director of a CAF will not be able to modify the pension which he himself has fixed initially. If the text were voted as it stood, the crisis and the discontent of the French would not be close to extinction. The French will consider that we have talked a lot about justice, as the rapporteur has just done, but very little about the justiciable and the citizen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u306	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u307	When we began to debate this text, some observations were shared on all sides: the delays in judicial decisions are too long, the justice system is too complex and difficult to read by our fellow citizens, the human and material resources of the courts are insufficient and the prisons are unworthy of a great democracy. No one here could dispute this state of affairs. A large part of the provisions of this text, as amended, whatever it is said, by all groups, were included in the programmes of candidates for the presidential election, which took place 18 months ago. The proposal to establish a criminal court, which we carry in this text, was, word for word, in Mr.Fillon's program.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u308	That's why he wasn't elected!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u309	Measures on the proximity and facilitation of the work of judges were included in Mr. Hamon's programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u310	Copiers!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u311	And I could go on.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u312	What about us?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u313	The bad faith that we can sometimes show pisses off our fellow citizens. Mrs Rabault, the current correction turns a crime into a crime. With the creation of the criminal court, an experimental mechanism that will be evaluated, the rapes, which you mentioned, will remain crimes. They will be judged correctly and effectively, contrary to what correction can sometimes produce. We must all be honest: when a provision introduced by a piece of legislation appeared in the candidate's program that was supported, intellectual honesty commands to vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u314	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u315	80% of users fear entering a courthouse. We all agree on the objective of restoring, restoring or establishing a bond of trust. With the professionals of justice, this link is not woven, if I believe the manifestation that took place today, place Saint-Michel in Paris. Many professionals gathered to express their concern and desire for justice to return to the centre of the great national debate. The argument put forward by my colleague Valérie Rabault confirms that we have been dragging blocking points for a year, which you know as we do, and which we have not been able to lift. They need to be reworked to restore the bond of trust between us, and with professionals. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] The question of justice deserves to be included in this great debate with the citizens, so that it seems to us much more prudent, wise and respectful not to rush and to use this time for reflection so that the text we are voting for will restore the bond of trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u316	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u317	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LR, SOC and FI groups]] We will vote against this motion, but we are more in tune with what our colleague Viala has said. You cannot, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, simply say that the debates lasted forty or sixty hours: it makes no sense! This debate is emblematic of what our Assembly should no longer be. The opposition has, as its sole remedy, only the lodging of motions to save time, because its amendments are not considered or accepted. We have to get out of this! We have indeed spent sixty hours on this text, but we have all found that the text submitted for re-reading was the original bill. What was the point of our debates?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u318	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u319	That is not true, but there have been very few changes. The amendments tabled on all the benches do not propose revolutions, but often small improvements. Their adoption may reduce the number of lawyers and citizens on the street. We wish only that. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LR groups]] Let's work together, and stop telling us that the text has been studied because we have devoted sixty hours to it! That doesn't make any sense! How many opposition amendments have been adopted? As Mr Bernalicis said earlier, only one proposal for a report has been included in his group's amendments. It's nothing! We need to work harder to get a consensus text. Our fellow citizens are asking us to listen to them, and we, members of the opposition, are asking for the same thing, in order to work together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u320	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u321	We could say with you that it has been 15 years since the policy at the Ministry of Justice was up to the stakes – and extend this to other public policies. But then, the objective cannot be to continue in the same direction, because the same causes produce the same effects. But you continue in the same direction! Listening to you, you should thank yourself for not closing courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u322	You have to agree, Mr. Bernalicis!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u323	We are not here, we will not congratulate you. Some of our amendments were aimed at making small advances; One proposed that more legal professionals, including lawyers, should be obliged, at all stages of the proceedings, to talk about restorative justice. This amendment did not eat bread! What was the risk? By dogmatism, sectarianism, authoritarianism or contempt, as you wish, it has been rejected. [[Long protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] To those who, like me, opposed the departmental criminal court, you replied that they despised the professional magistrates who would do a remarkable job there. I hope they will, and I'm sure they will. But that's not the point! The point is, you hate the people!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u324	No, it's the people who hate them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u325	[[Blocks of desks on the same benches]] Criminal justice was one of the last places where the French people participated in the justice process. Tomorrow the jurors will be called to disappear. You, too, will disappear!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u326	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u327	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LR and UDI-Agir groups]] I am not a member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but I have the right to speak in this House, because all Members have the right to do so, it is called democracy. It seems to me that you do not measure well, on the benches of the majority, what is happening in this country. A very strong social movement has been expressed on several occasions, the yellow vests simply asking to be respected and to live in dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u328	We, too, ask for respect!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u329	Today we are in a deep crisis, which is also that of the State, because the Government never responds to the aspirations and needs of citizens. You are always right, nothing shakes you, you decide and are the symphony of the new world. But you're just a symphony, nothing else!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u330	We were elected by universal suffrage!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u331	Mr. Macron's letter is dead because you're unable to listen and hear what's going on.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u332	The movement doesn't benefit the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u333	For you, only your reforms matter. You are right and reject everything we propose to develop community justice, saying, "We've settled everything, we've debated 60 hours, your proposals are useless and we're wasting time." That's your understanding of the drafting of the law! We will vote on this motion, you understand, and you say, "open your eyes"! If you don't change, the government won't hold.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u334	Don't take your desires for reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u335	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We are pretending to ask citizens for their views in a big debate, which is in fact very framed and limited.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u336	The next speaker is Mr Paul Molac, who has changed places.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u337	I'm the deputy traveler here! Ladies and gentlemen, I am not surprised by the fact that different visions are being expressed. We are here for this and to express feelings. When one belongs to a small group, one cannot attend the meetings of all the committees. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the organic bill should not, at once, smooth out the misdemeanours that have been observed over the past forty years in the area of justice. Everyone takes a step and brings his stone to the building. The text will be an additional stone among many others. The factory of the law is difficult, tortuous, arduous, sometimes chaotic. We humbly try to improve things. Will justice be delivered faster? One thing is certain, prisons will be built. Currently, prisons are heavily overcrowded. Much of the additional money provided for in the text will be used for this purpose. That is already a positive point. I will not vote on the motion for referral to committee. I will abstain, as on the other two motions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u338	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u339	Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this motion for referral to committee is the last chance to catch up and try to hear and listen, following the demonstrations of legal professionals – lawyers, magistrates, clerks, youth judicial protection staff, officials of the Ministry of Justice, members of associations for the defence of litigants and access to the law as well as students in law – that took place today. They all call for the withdrawal of the text of the sitting and the opening of a major debate on justice in the context of your great national debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u340	This is the organic bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u341	Talking about justice is never easy. What is certain is that care must be taken not to reduce it to mere budgetary or flow management considerations. Your reform, Madam Keeper of the Seals, will profoundly mark our justice. I truly believe that. Your Organic Justice Reform Bill will strengthen the sense of injustice in our society. In fact, the majority welcomed a text that ignored the opposition of the legal professionals by claiming that it benefits the litigants. Yet he ignores the people who are here, too. I fundamentally believe that the degraded and impoverished justice that you maintain through your bill is a burnout against our democracy. Our colleague Valérie Rabault mentioned just now, with supporting figures, the level of confidence in justice. We are not the only ones, in the group La France insoubted, to share this analysis. This justice – your justice – is forcibly rejected by lawyers, magistrates, clerks and prison integration and probation advisers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u342	We have to get back to the stencil!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u343	We do not doubt the accuracy of their judgment or their willingness to operate this public service despite the degraded conditions in which they work. Judges and clerks, in particular, can no longer afford to do more with constant or reduced staff! Your detestation of State agents does not instill their sense of justice and has not begun today, in any case, their mobilization, which should be welcomed. Madam Minister, during the debates in committee, you took over a Goethe formula, telling everyone that you were "no angelic, no evil." Indeed: you defend a liberal project that is quite classical, which is hidden under the dogma of budgetary and technocratic pragmatism. You defend justice that loses its state monopoly to unregulated platforms. You're defending justice spread across the territory in an unequal manner. Moreover, several members of the majority have deplored the fact that there has been no court in their constituency since the Dati reform. You defend a barbaric justice, rendered to a justiciable who will now have to face a real journey of the combatant before meeting a magistrate. You are defending a judicious justice whose costs can only be borne by those who have the means to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u344	What a caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u345	You are defending a justice system that is tainted by criminal populism, which is extremely degrading to the rights of defence and fundamental freedoms, particularly because of the widening of the scope of the preliminary investigation, with very meagre counterpart – not to say none. Finally, you defend an arch-bouted justice on a tropism: prison, prison and even prison. Therefore, in order to clarify my opinion on the organic bill, I will quote Goethe in my turn: "Men depreciate what they cannot understand."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u346	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u347	Minister, you do not see the same justice as we see. As the rapporteur said earlier, we are obviously not on the same planet. That's right! The state of material misery of justice is a deliberate political choice on your part.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u348	Come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u349	Our country is below European standards on many criteria. To the shortage, your bill responds by rationing, in line with the recent presidential speech: fewer public services – thus less accessible justice! France's budgetary commitment is not up to the stakes. The European Commission's latest report on the effectiveness of justice is alarming, even if you choose to ignore it. Within the European Union, France ranks thirty-seventh out of forty-one. The overall budget of the Ministry of Justice represents 64 euros per capita per year, which is not much – it is less than the amount that the French spend on the audiovisual fee. In fact, out of the additional €3 billion allocated to the justice budget, you know perfectly well that 1.7 billion is spent on the prison administration, specifically on its investment expenditure – I am not even talking about the operating expenses or the difficulties you will have in recruiting a sufficient number of prison guards. It is already difficult to reach the target workforce; tomorrow, with extra prison places, I don't know how you'll do it. If we add to all this the half billion allocated to the digital transformation of justice, we understand why there are only a few hurdles left for the judicial component of the justice budget, in order to achieve just what has been promised for years: the target number of magistrates, clerks and prison advisers for integration and probation. Is that the horizon? The target force? Moreover, it is undervalued by the professionals, as I learned during the solemn hearing of the Court of Appeal of Douai, whose requisitions are quite strict. The consequence is that we lack judges to do justice and we have a cruel shortage of prosecutors, which places France at the penultimate rank of the forty-seven countries of the Council of Europe. Even though prosecutors have immense prerogatives, they require and direct judicial investigations. Your bill, the minister, blindly accentuates this state of affairs – perhaps waiting for them to experience a tragedy in the Overseas? For litigants, the consequences are multiple: at the slowness and congestion of the courts, you respond by privatization – which degrades the notion of justice – and dehumanization – through the unseasoned and unreasonable use of videoconferencing. As we speak of injustice in our country, your bill does not in any way respond to the legitimate demands of our fellow citizens. The bill does not improve French justice, it adapts it to the limited means that this government – visibly black anti-robes – grants it. The increase in the budget is due only to the strength of the construction of prisons, which – according to repressive coherence, it must be said – folded under the weight of an emblematic penal populism of our time. The La France insoumis group defends a justice project whose objective – which we must all share – is to achieve social harmony and whose vocation is to correct inequalities, which become injustices if they prevent individuals, especially the most disadvantaged, from coping with them. If individuals are equal in law, the State must not take for granted that they are in fact equal – that role rests with justice. Let us not forget: justice is the guarantee of a social peace based on balance and reason. During the first reading of the text, as part of the general discussion, I had tried not to criticize your text, Madam Minister, but rather to propose an alternative text. Believe that there are many proposals in the country. Lawyers and magistrates have formulated many of them in this debate. They do not appear in the text. That is why they were massively mobilized today. I was by their side with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u350	As soon as it comes to complaining...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u351	Earlier, our colleague Mazars complained about the previous majorities. "What happened to my court abolished by the Dati reform? » – excellent question! "The budget increase will not be used to give me back my court" – should it continue? Well, no! Prison places are expensive. On the contrary, we should be passionately debating the establishment of new structures and we should rejoice at the release of 1.7 billion to reopen courthouses, re-establish existing ones and turn them into 21st century courthouses! As you can see, I could even write your language elements, ladies and gentlemen of the majority! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, That is not the purpose of the bill. I hear justice is too slow. I share that view. I've just filed a complaint myself. I'll see how soon he'll be dealt with. It is true that justice is too slow. Therefore, there are two possibilities for us: either to increase the capacity of justice to work by increasing its resources, including human resources – and thus the number of judges – or to reduce the number of cases. Obviously, you have chosen the second option, Madam Minister. I listened carefully to you at the hearings in committee. I remember a history of pipes, bathtubs and taps that we were opening and closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u352	You didn't listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u353	I understand that the aim is not to deliver quality justice but to manage flows. You said earlier, as a result of our fellow citizens, that justice, sometimes, is not fair. "Depending on whether you will be powerful or wretched, court judgments will make you white or black," wrote La Fontaine in his time. The analysis of the functioning of justice and the judgements rendered corroborates this quotation. Delinquency of misery is much harder and faster hit than the delinquency of the powerful. The Alexander Benalla still have beautiful days ahead of them! In fact, Le Canard enchainé will publish information to support this allegation tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u354	What about Mr. Mélenchon?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u355	So we should have had a great deal of debate about how to end the double standards system, or at least the feeling that it exists, even if you doubt it. Economic and financial crime is a striking example. Given the meagre resources of the national financial prosecutor's office, which is doing well with its eighteen judges – which may already seem huge – having to deal with cases of extraordinary magnitude, we should not discuss too much doubling its staff, especially since they are very profitable judges. Even if I criticize them, the judicial agreements in the public interest have visibly brought a few million into the state's coffers. You would have been very inspired to go and get them from your colleague Darmanin, the minister! When I find that the national financial prosecutor's office asks for additional resources and is answered "The budget is forced, but we keep your staff, which is already not bad! I am thinking of the 800 million that they have brought into the state's coffers – of which 10%, or 80 million, would not have represented an exaggerated levy. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, These are not the choices that have been made. And how to not mention those citizens who read in the press that an individual who stole a packet of pasta here or there is sentenced to a prison sentence – not a month, which excludes him from the prohibition of sentences of less than a month's imprisonment, but several months –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u356	For a bunch of pasta?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u357	... even though other offenders, bearing big names or having misappropriated a lot of money, get away with very light sentences. Clearly, if we want to restore the country's balance and restore this powerful sense of justice, we must not throw everyone in prison – this is not the meaning of my remarks, which is not meant to say that we must throw offenders in prison in white collars, which would sometimes do them no harm – but to remind them that it is essential to aim at introducing a form of equality in justice. It is not possible to let the feeling continue that this is not the case. Colleagues, remember that only a few votes have been missed to bring down the bill – five! Some of us are bitting their fingers. We would have done better to be there that night – I was there. Doubt is allowed when the project is illegitimate. There were abstentions in the majority, including in the La République en marche group. Let us not be confined, as the Government wishes, to the role of registration board without consequence, or of temporary error, as I said earlier. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This week, our role as legislator is also to save Private Justice. I am talking about the humans who give it back, but also about the humans for whom it is returned. I will conclude with these words of Proudhon that I allow myself to leave their context: "Justice is human, every human, nothing but human".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u358	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u359	I listened very carefully to the words of our colleague Ugo Bernalicis, who has, it must be acknowledged, worked very hard and discussed this text with us. Mrs. Laetitia Avia and I, like Stéphane Mazars, Jean Terlier... and all those who wished, have done a lot of hearings to prepare this text; we have listened a lot, heard; With the assistance of the Government with which we have a built-up and constant debate, we have carried out the few changes and adjustments that were necessary. Between Christmas and January 1 – it's one way like another to spend the holidays – Laetitia Avia and I went to meet some magistrates, but especially several bar associations and many lawyers. What I took away from these meetings is that many lawyers from France are worried. We must recognize this feeling and be able to read it: they fear this text not for what it is, but for what it might be. They are concerned, in reality, about the future of the profession of lawyer, and about its ability to adapt to a changing France, a France where human, social, commercial and industrial relations change. One of the challenges of this text is precisely to give them the tools that will enable them to ensure this necessary change. Mr Bernalicis, you talked a lot about the budget; I assume that the Minister of Justice will be better able to address this issue than I am. However, I am astonished to hear you conspure this text for financial reasons, even though it was a long time ago that we had not experienced such a budgetary increase! The European comparison, as you know, dear colleague, does not hold: the judicial systems differ from one place to another. Of course, we can all dream of doing more and better!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u360	We're still ranked among the last!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u361	You're talking populist justice. I do not understand what you mean by this term, but I fully trust you on this point, because you are a great specialist in populism. You've also talked a lot about prison. This is indeed one of the main thrusts of this reform. Through the construction of new prisons and the rehabilitation of older prisons, we want to restore dignity to prisoners by improving prison conditions. At the same time, we consider that it is necessary to lock up less, always for the same reasons: we must restore dignity to a certain part of the French population which, in many cases, does not deserve to be imprisoned; It often leads to desocialization or even dehumanization. So we do not accept any criticism on this ground! Public opinion would not tolerate a lack of firmness; But it would not bear any more than we would not take into account the reality of delinquency and the need to provide it with an objective and appropriate response. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] If I had to formulate the philosophy of this text, I would gladly use the words of Joseph Joubert: "Justice is the right of the weakest." Finally, we want to do justice to the weakest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u362	We come to the explanations of vote. Mrs Elise Fajgeles has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u363	Since the beginning of the examination of this text, I hear that it would be technical, complex, technocratic. On behalf of the Republic on the move, I would like to point out that this is a very concrete text, which will really change the lives of our citizens, their relationship with justice and their protection. I will give only a few simple examples: a simplified divorce procedure reduced to one year; more conciliation and mediation procedures, to promote dialogue and avoid contentious procedures that are always difficult; the right to vote conferred on protected adults; finally dematerialised procedures, to put an end to the archaism of procedures on paper still too numerous; the possibility – in no way the obligation – of making a complaint online because yes, sometimes, especially in cases of sexual violence, it is difficult to take the first step by pushing the door of the police station; experimenting with criminal courts, so that rapes are no longer tried as crimes; special techniques to enhance the effectiveness of investigations, therefore for greater security; the abolition of prison sentences of less than one month; the creation of 15,000 prison places, because prison overcrowding is not a sight of the mind, Mr Bernalicis, but a reality that must be addressed; the creation, everywhere in the territory, of a single place of entry into the judicial procedure, instead of the present organisation obviously too complex. In addition, the justice budget has increased in an unprecedented manner and significant new posts are planned. This text therefore responds to the very real mistrust of our fellow citizens towards justice. In the anger expressed in recent weeks and the questioning of our institutions, we hear the reproach of a lack of proximity, of too great complexity, of insufficient efficiency. With this text, the justice of tomorrow will be simpler, more accessible and faster; It is an answer to the doubts and angers of our fellow citizens. Human contact will be maintained everywhere, as there will be no closure of a place of justice. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Well, no, we will not vote on this motion for referral to committee, which I think is somewhat caricatural and demagogic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u364	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u365	Once it is not customary, the Republican Group will vote on this motion for referral back to committee for a simple reason: it highlights the problem of the functioning of the House, which I mentioned earlier. The comments just made by our colleague from the majority still show that you do not hear; Parliamentary oppositions are not sufficiently taken into account, either by the majority or by the Government. Our many amendments, our attendance in committee as well as in the sitting, do not count for anything. The only way we can make our disagreement heard, therefore, is precisely, until the final stages of the procedure, to table motions for prior rejection or referral to committee. That is very regrettable, and even more so in the current context. My dear colleague, you point out that the defence of these motions is a posture; But it's the way you evacuate them that's a posture! You cannot say that this bill meets the expectations of citizens, or justice professionals, who have been on the street for weeks and especially today to testify loud and clear of their disagreement. You cannot pretend to hold the truth and be right against the oppositions present in this House, against the professionals outside, and probably tomorrow against the litigants when they become aware of the consequences of your text. Thankfully, find consideration for Parliament and for the forces that make it up. This is a first step that must precede the opening of the big debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u366	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u367	The Socialist and Related Group will also vote on this motion to refer the matter back to committee. I join our colleague Arnaud Viala: you can't suddenly want to open a big debate, and not start with the National Assembly! The main principles are very good, but they still have to be applied when it is appropriate, that is to say now. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Like Mr Bernalicis, we have asked very specific questions. On the case that I submitted to you a deception on a life insurance contract, you did not want to answer; If there is no answer, it's probably either no one knows, or the answer is difficult... In any case, I still have not understood what, in direct quotation, a person who has been deceived by a commercial could obtain. Again, these questions are very precise, and when it is unclear... – I will not repeat here the well-known adage. But yes, ladies and gentlemen, to write the law, it is necessary to be very precise, because it concerns 66 million of our fellow citizens! The minimum we owe them is to write a specific law. Mr rapporteur, I am not a member of the Committee on Laws, but a member of the Committee on Finance. But I am a Member of Parliament, and a citizen, like another: I, like any citizen and like any Member of Parliament, have the right to obtain answers before voting the law. You are telling me that this is not the case since I do not belong to the right committee: you are showing here, I believe, a narrow vision of democracy. Yes, we will vote on this motion to refer; Yes, we are waiting for specific answers. Do not lock ourselves in a sectarian pattern: we sometimes vote for measures proposed by the majority. But writing the law is an exercise that requires rigour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u368	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u369	The group La France insoumise does not despair to make you hear right. This has been asked on the various benches of the opposition, but especially in the demonstrations held today by all the justice personnel. You are still trying to reassure them, Mr rapporteur, but during the long months during which you organised these famous judicial projects, where you sent questionnaires, where you allegedly listened and heard, and even apparently resumed their proposals, they were not convinced – it is not that they do not understand; It's not that they're scared. Today they continue to mobilize massively. You refuse to hear them; you refuse to hear all the arguments that we submit to you. That is why we have tabled this motion. In the moments we are going through, the need for justice is so great in our country that our judicial system must not engage on the dangerous slope of regression that you have chosen – regression of citizens' access to justice, regression of public services, even regression of means. Justice must be at the service of the people, far from your vanquishing and austere vision. The only thing you can congratulate yourself on is a modest increase in the budget – and it will only be used to build even more places to lock up! I don't think there's a title here. The justice of this country deserves more than the wrong reform that you want us to adopt.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u370	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u371	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote on this motion. All the motions we have considered this afternoon deal with method issues. We're trying to warn you: we can't govern like this! No one in this House can deny that this bill meets the hostility of the vast majority of judicial personnel, or that no significant amendment of the opposition has been made in the eyes of the majority. We are in a denial of parliamentary debate, opposition and what is being said in the judicial world, which is called upon to implement this bill. In my opinion, the country is not well governed. I would add that, in the judicial world, opposition to the bill does not go down. On the contrary, they are expanding, since trade union organizations that did not initially participate in the movement joined the rallies today. Moreover, the will of parliamentary oppositions to amend or improve the text was denied. At a time when the great national debate is opening, governing in this way can only stir up a little more the anger of the French. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] From this point of view, it is a damaging responsibility that you take. It is next to the reality of the country, as we are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u372	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u373	The oppositions question the majority fact, which has existed since the beginning of the Fifth Republic. The disruption of En Marche does not change anything to this, quite the contrary, since the majority fact only strengthens itself. This can indeed lead to the dictatorship of the majority over all minorities. This is not new, but it means moving on to a parliamentary democracy where we must find an arrangement for many, at the cost of a balance, albeit a little more unstable. Democracy always arises from balance and compromise. It is often much more preserved by this kind of regime. Having said that, I will not fall into angelism or pessimism because we have seen very well the limits of this bill, whether it is financial or about the speed of justice, the proximity or the procedural issues that some lawyers have raised. If this balance is unsatisfactory, I would say to the Members of the La France group, that the ideal rarely accords with the needs of reality. There are positive aspects to this text. We must therefore go to the end and discuss the body of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u374	In the general debate, Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u375	"Rebuilding the confidence of our citizens in our justice", this was the thread of our reflections during the five months of debate on the proposed reform of our justice, the two readings and the consideration of several thousand amendments before Parliament. Today, at the end of our always frank and direct exchanges, I want to stress once again, Madam Minister of Justice, the spirit of consultation and listening that animated you during the pre-debates, organized in particular around the recommendations of the professionals gathered during your meetings in our territories as close to the ground as possible and the conclusions of the judicial projects, launched on 6 October 2017 in Nantes. In this, and because consultation has taken place throughout the legislative process, everyone will recognize that this reform has indeed been prepared and built point by point, far from the hussard methods of some of your predecessors. The challenge of closer, simpler, more efficient and more accessible justice for all litigants has, I believe, been met. The current text responds to the needs and expectations of our citizens, who now want to grasp, understand and monitor their justice, as they can with other public services. The justice of the twenty-first century could not continue to escape the aspirations and novations of the society for which it provides the trait of union and, above all, cohesion. Its shift to more modernism and simplicity has become necessary, even indispensable, because the sense of justice can only exist if justice is connected to reality, only if it approaches it as closely as possible. It is because this reform is intended not only to be extremely ambitious, particularly on its criminal aspect, with the departmental criminal court and the national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office, but also pragmatic, particularly on its civilian aspect, that it must be accompanied by the necessary means for the change of justice. This programming bill accompanies a major reform, with an increase in the budget of more than 25% and the creation of 6,500 jobs by 2022, as well as reaffirming the desire to develop conciliation. It does not, therefore, result in a diversion of procedures, under the guise of introducing a policy of budgetary austerity. On the contrary, it meets the expectations of the French who, today, want to understand and no longer face insurmountable costs, often forcing them to give up rather than ester. Mandatory recourse to mediation is not a denial of justice: on the contrary, it will favour the amicable resolution of a conflict because not all disputes are intended to become conflictual. The conciliation, mediation or participatory procedure extended to everyday disputes and abnormal neighbourhood disorders finally make justice legible and easy to refer to for those who hesitate, because the procedures, today, are intelligible, time-consuming and costly. These attempts at conciliation are quick, simple and affordable responses. In a divorce, for example, an act that is often intimately painful, tensions that are already greatly exacerbated often suffice to traumatize. So, why insist on finding an interest in bringing the matter before the judge unless we want to reach out to relationships that we have everything to gain from soothing? The dematerialization of procedures and decisions does not dehumanize. On the contrary, reform is timely when it removes unnecessary and complex formalities or when it reduces procedural time. Faced with a multiplicity of illegible procedures, sometimes based on information systems and archaic procedures, the French demanded simplicity and fluidity. The project clarifies the scheme, proposing to gradually evolve to two types of procedure, and limiting the forms of referral. To those who fear the removal of the magistrate, the project defends itself by daring to organize a simplified first instance, for a justiciable finally oriented. Finally, to those who fear a misdemeanour of justice or a loss of jurisdiction, the bill is committed to refocusing the courts on their essential role in resolving disputes. All current settlements are maintained. This is indeed a response to the need for proximity and accessibility of justice. No place of justice will be closed. But effective justice also requires specialized courts: the administrative merger of the courts of main instance and the courts of instance, without the disappearance of the magistrates, guarantees the maintenance of a judge of proximity for disputes of proximity, those of daily life. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] So, Minister, here we welcome the fundamental foundations of justice that can adapt to the needs of our contemporaries and respond to the challenges facing our 21st century society. With this project, our justice remains the necessary link between freedom and security, the social contract that unites a society in a state governed by the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u376	Mr Stéphane Mazars has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u377	Today we are coming to the end of a long legislative path to reform our justice system. Justice is an ideal to which our fellow citizens aspire, while at the same time being able to be critical of the institution and its way of functioning. This reform was therefore necessary and expected by our fellow citizens. It must have been above all in their interest. First of all, and in order to silence from now on the criticism of those who consider that the Government has remained deaf to the demands of professionals, whether they are officials or auxiliaries of justice, or to the protests of local elected officials, I would like once again to welcome, Madam Minister, the method that has been yours, that of dialogue and co-construction. First of all, with the five judicial projects launched in October 2017 and completed in January 2018, you have made it possible, through actors of justice with recognised competences, to highlight the many challenges that a modern and democratic State faces in the 21st century in the field of justice, whether in the areas of judicial organisation, the meaning to be given to punishment, access to the judge, or the simplification of both civil and criminal proceedings. You then confronted the conclusions of these projects with the comments of the actors, as close as possible to the ground, by not hesitating to go personally to the courts, and this in all places of our territory, especially in rural departments where the presence of public services is an important issue, as in that of Aveyron, a department which, I know, Madam Minister, is dear to you. To reform our justice with ambition is first of all to provide it with additional and lasting resources, which will finally bring France out of the depths of the ranking with regard to the means that the country devotes to justice. We should therefore, once again, welcome this so-called "programming" bill, which includes an unprecedented increase in the resources devoted to justice, whether in terms of infrastructure or personnel. At the criminal level, this project aims to increase the effectiveness of the response to increasingly organized and protean crime. Thus a rationalisation and harmonisation of the conditions for the implementation of the means of investigation are foreseen, in the light of the different investigation frameworks. It is pointed out that this efficiency sought for the safety of our fellow citizens will not be at the expense of the individual freedoms or the rights of defence, to which our country is very attached. In fact, the proceedings will always be conducted under the supervision of the judge of freedoms and detention, in preliminary investigation or in flagrance, or the investigating judge, after the opening of judicial information. In addition, some simplification mechanisms contained in this text will make effective investigative time available to judicial police officers, by unburdening them from time-consuming or superfluous tasks. Moreover, this project aims to make justice more accessible to our citizens, especially the most vulnerable of them, namely the victims. In particular, it is the online complaint mechanism that will allow those whose words are sometimes the most difficult to release to pass the step of the first revelation of the facts, being clarified that this new method of complaint will not substitute for the current mechanisms and will not avoid the necessary placing in the presence of the victim with an investigator or a judge, for the most serious facts. It is also for better judicial treatment of criminal facts that this text provides experimentally for the implementation of the departmental criminal court. This new court will allow for the trial of crimes punishable by 15 or 20 years' imprisonment, which will allow the current courts to be reduced and the length of the trial period, sometimes in violation of the presumption of innocence of the accused and detrimental to the plaintiffs pending recognition of the status of victim. It is also, as we know, a procedure that will limit the practice, too frequent, of correcting crimes such as rape or aggravated rape, which often amount to genuine denials of justice. Finally, this law aims to improve the effectiveness of society's response to those who seriously violate the rules. In particular, without reverting to the principle of personalization of sentences, which gives full meaning to the action of the judge, ineffective sanctions, such as less than one month in prison, will no longer be imposed and those greater than one year will be effectively carried out by the convicted person. Minister, after a lot of dialogue and consultation, you introduced your project, which has been widely discussed and amended. It will continue to be so during this week by national representation. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Then comes the time to implement this reform of the justice system. It is no doubt at this point that certain reservations and certain a priori, which are still being expressed, wrongly or intentionally, in our territory, will come to an end.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u378	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u379	Today we are starting a new reading of an important text for justice, after a CMP that has not succeeded. It is not so much a profound transformation as a modernisation that we are doing, which the MODEM Group believes should be carried out. Yes, justice is at the heart of our social and democratic contract. It is one of the guarantors of our individual freedoms as well as of social peace. In view of the crucial role of justice in the functioning of our democracy, it must be ensured the best means and conditions for its operation, and it must be made accessible again to all citizens. I will not come back – we are in a new reading – on the origins and explanations of the many shortcomings of our judicial system. They are due to a plurality of reasons – budgetary, of course, but also the lack of progressive modernisation – which require, today, a plan of magnitude to remedy them. Whatever some professions say, the consultation has been real and thorough, and the means used have been numerous. The MODEM and related groups would like to welcome the method and the numerous consultations. Our group also welcomes the idea of making justice closer, more readable and faster. This is reflected, inter alia, in the measures allowing judges to refocus their offices. The development of alternative dispute resolution methods, the simplification of procedures and the increased use of dematerialisation will give all actors in the judicial chain the means to optimize their work. The litigants will then be better informed and connected to the courts. They will see an acceleration and improvement in the processing of their requests. The bill brings real innovation: it proposes a new scale of criminal sanctions. The trial bodies will thus be able to deliver work of general interest, regardless of any other sanction. They will also be able to arrange certain terms of imprisonment directly. These measures will, we hope, lead to the introduction of real individualized and alternative sanctions in prison. They constitute a major step forward in the individualization of sentences. We were elected to reform. This applies to justice, for which we must make up for the backlog of years or even decades of inaction. Yes, the situation of justice is alarming. In the face of it, we take our responsibilities in this text to a great extent. Of course, this new reading must enable us to make further progress on certain points and to maintain balance. It's all in the interest of parliamentary work. We will propose an amendment to section 53 of the bill, which deals with the merger of the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance, as well as the possible specialization of certain courts of first instance. This article raises many concerns in the territories. We hear them and we want to reassure our fellow citizens: this provision represents a real simplification of the judicial path for the litigants. In addition, specialization will involve only a few but highly complex litigations. As a result of these guarantees, this measure seems to us to be balanced and capable of improving the functioning of our courts. As you have just said, Madam Keeper of the Seals, there will be no closure of jurisdictions. We understand the philosophy of your text to put the justiciable at the heart of our justice. However, in order to address the concerns of some professionals, we will suggest that you consider consulting with court boards, which include, among other things, representatives of the bar and local elected representatives, when a specialization is considered. In conclusion, I would like to return to the points raised on several occasions that call for our vigilance. With regard to the use of videoconferencing, we remain convinced that it is not desirable if the person concerned has not consented to it. The extension of pre-trial detention is a heavy decision of consequences for which we believe that the use of videoconferencing should remain the exception. We hope that the criminal composition will continue to apply only to offences punishable by up to five years' imprisonment. Its extension to all offences seems to us to be highly disproportionate. In addition, it would have the effect of entrusting the management of crime to the public prosecutor, to the detriment of the judges of the seat. We are therefore not in favour of it. Finally, the MODEM Group had expressed its concern about Article 6 concerning the experimental diversion of the maintenance review. This is a sensitive issue that affects a significant number of our citizens. Today, we have to face the reality: it often takes more than six months for a decision to be made on the evolution of the amount of a pension. These delays are detrimental to the weaker party. We understand the value of experimentation, but we believe it is necessary to further secure the device. That is why we will propose two amendments to clarify that the Director of the FCA may refuse to make a decision and refer the case back to the judge when the situation is complex and requires a finer assessment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As you will have understood, apart from the few reservations that we will be debating in the coming days, the MODEM Group fully supports this text, which foreshadows the justice of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u380	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u381	I approached this text in a benevolent way, with the will to support it, as it seemed to me essential to continue the work we had done in 2016 under the law on the adaptation of justice in the 21st century. I would add that the guidelines put forward by candidate Emmanuel Macron encouraged me to do so. "The secret of boredom is that of saying everything," said Voltaire. I will therefore not draw up an inventory at the Prévert, but at the most I would remind you of our group's support for the provisions which strengthen the single reception service of the litigant, develop friendly settlements and dematerialize procedures. Measures to promote reintegration and prevent recidivism receive my full consent. The removal of short prison sentences and the end of the massive use of pre-trial detention, which causes the congestion of our detention centres, as well as the development of alternative measures to detention, are just decisions. But to this first positive analysis, defended by rapporteurs who did not spare their sentence, Laetitia Avia and Didier Paris, whose talent I salute, succeeds the observation of orientations which turn their backs on our demands of a public service of justice and which mislead worried professionals with whom, however, we should establish a bond of trust. This is probably the reason for the radical opposition that has gradually emerged against this text, bringing together magistrates, clerks, lawyers, probation staff and the prison administration. With regard to the civil aspect, the text should have better regulated and made more legible the mechanisms of conciliation, mediation and participatory procedure. The litigant is outside the walls of the court until the dispute is crystallized. The text should ensure, once this has been satisfied, access to the judge within a reasonable period of time. Instead, the judge is dismissed, to the detriment of the users, 80% of whom fear to walk through the door of a courthouse. The role of counsel deserves to be better defined in order to take over from a judge absent in the first phase of a dispute. Platforms have advantages in terms of savings but not seriousness of the thing under consideration. The State must therefore not evade its duty to regulate in the face of the commodification of law. The rule, well established in 2016, according to which the judge settles disputes is misguided, thus adding to the confusion: it is now the CAF, in a conflict of interest avoided, that will have to decide a maintenance dispute and eventually revert to a judgment. Of course, this mechanism is experimental, but it worries us: it is the door open to questioning the principle that the judge is necessarily the one who settles a dispute. As for the criminal aspect, it is not the big night – circumstances did not lend themselves to it. We must wait for the constitutional review. A series of measures are rightly aimed at facilitating the investigation work. However, the generalization and trivialization of provisions derogating from ordinary law is concerned. The extension of geolocation, telephone interceptions and searches, without the consent of individuals, to offences punishable by three years' imprisonment raises questions. Can we accept that these techniques, which were previously framed, are used for a simple flight? The Members are not being heard, but could the referents of the courts not be heard? The latter clearly defend the need for a minimum penalty of five years' imprisonment in order to preserve the principle of proportionality. The reform calls into question the procedural requirements that protect fundamental freedoms. Indeed, the use of video conferencing in pre-trial detention litigation breaks the current balance, without any gain being shown. It is now through the screens that incarcerated persons will be heard on their request for release. As for the assize courts, which have in their heart the principle of orality, they are partly replaced by a criminal court. Yet, "the jury serves to form judgment and increase the natural lights of the people," Tocqueville wrote. The jury is a unique and necessary link between the people and their justice, the preservation of which should be ensured. This is, I agree, an experiment, but you know as well as I do what happens to experiments. The definitive abolition of the court of assizes, in fine, would be a nonsense – I prefer to say it today – while strengthening the links between the population and the judicial institution is indispensable and demanded up to the roundabouts. As far as the scale of sentences is concerned, setting one year's imprisonment instead of two – which is a good thing – the quantum of punishment allowing the benefit of an ab initio sentence arrangement will not reduce the number of incarcerations. I repeat, the refusal to turn the probation sentence into a full sentence and the continuation of the sentence of imprisonment is a missed opportunity. Finally, the gap between the envisaged criminal policy and the planned number of staff to implement it is a matter of great concern. Many professions suffer from a lack of human resources, such as clerks, prison guards and integration and probation counsellors – the creation of 1500 jobs for the latter will not be enough to make alternatives to imprisonment a powerful and high-quality solution. In the absence of any real means, we may fear that the revolution of penalties will not take place, as a judge of the public prosecutor's office at the TGI in Paris asserts. 90% of our citizens want justice faster, more readable and more effective – this expectation has been expressed many times here. The construction site in front of us is huge. It is by bringing together the actors of the judiciary and sharing the common cause of a public service of justice that we will be able to restore strength and coherence to the judicial institution. The State must first – in part – guarantee a substantial budget and not impose a new text on professionals every year. In conclusion, I would like to commend the commitment of the judges, as well as the court clerks and judicial officers. We must show our gratitude to them, not to mention those who work, often and increasingly voluntarily, to provide, despite major difficulties, a response to the justiciable. It is a question of encouraging them and bringing them together in this common cause, and above all not of dividing them or making them take a path they do not want to take.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u382	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1117.u383	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion, in new reading, of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill; Further to the discussion, on a new reading, of the draft organic law on strengthening the organization of courts. The meeting is adjourned.
