ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the mobility policy bill (No. 1831, 1974, 1937, 1938, 1942).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u2	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, concluding with amendment No. 2861 on the additional article after article 1e r B.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u3	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u4	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u5	Mrs Bérangère Abba, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u6	He's unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u7	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u8	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u9	Amendments Nos 1397, 1398, 1399 and 1400 by Mr Matthieu Orphelin, which may be the subject of a joint debate, are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u10	On Amendment No 3248, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendments Nos 3248 and 3247, which can be the subject of a joint debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u11	My colleague Dominique Potier, who has tabled these amendments, would like to apologize for his absence: he meets employees from Saint-Gobain in his constituency. Amendments Nos 3248 and 3247 are important because they draw the consequences of the difference between the ecological impact of a journey by plane and a journey by train for the same link. In this respect, we have a great deal of valuable information, various and varied reports, European, such as that of the European Environment Agency, or national, such as that of Mr Spinetta, in which Mr Spinetta was opportunely comparing train and plane journeys, advocating the use of iron. The European Environment Agency estimated that greenhouse gas production would average 14 grams per passenger per kilometre on a train compared to about 285 grams on an aeroplane. We therefore propose, where a comparable rail alternative exists to the aircraft, that an air carbon tax be added to the ticket price paid by the air passenger: it is quite simple and quite clear. It would correspond to 20 per cent of the average price of the train ticket on the same route and would only apply when the length of the journey by train is not excessively longer than by plane. The Spinetta report also contains interesting information. It is often argued that it is possible to prefer the train for round trips, for example for business trips between Paris and Lyon, Toulouse or Marseille. The tax would thus apply to a Paris-Marseille, for example, but not to a Paris-Biarritz. The proceeds of this tax would be donated to AFITF, the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France, which, in recent days, on all banks, we have had the opportunity to highlight the lack of financial resources. I have read a recent forum, published in Les Échos, highlighting this glaring lack; It was signed in particular by the chairman of our committee here, but also by Philippe Duron, who led the work of the Infrastructural Guidance Board. This is therefore a source of funding, far from being negligible but also virtuous, since iron would be preferred over the aircraft for the type of journey I have mentioned. Ideally, this product should be directed towards financing the maintenance, renewal and development of the conventional rail network, including small lines, which were the subject of a long debate yesterday or the day before yesterday. If we want to offer an alternative to certain categories of transport, particularly those of everyday life, known as "pendulars", between home and work, we must invest, where possible, not only in rolling stock but also in roads and signs. This is a perfectly imaginable source of funding. Let us not be afraid of the words: this kind of air carbon tax, if I may say so, would be perequatory, in the sense that air passengers who could reasonably take the train would finance the rail infrastructure of daily trains, of which you have made a priority throughout the defence of this text. This is a perfect example of a measure that provides a source of funding and favours this type of transport. You understand, Madam Minister, that it is not possible to make this clarification in the body of the text, in order to meet the requirements of Article 40 of the Constitution, but our amendments provide that the tax would apply only to flights made on or after January 1, 2021. With the exception of low cost airlines, most airlines market their flights approximately nine months in advance. The purpose of this delayed coming into force date is to reflect this time frame and the duration of the bill's review. This night, we had an interesting debate, not just on the taxation of kerosene, about which, I would like to make it clear, my colleague Dominique Potier started an argument, but on the abolition of the exemption from ICTPE – the internal consumption tax on energy products – applicable to kerosene, which is quite different. It is not a question of creating a new tax but of seeing that it affects the many people who go to work every day and that the same is not true for domestic air transport. I welcome the remarkable work of my colleague Dominique Potier, who has shown that this would only amount to 9,90 euros for a Paris-Toulouse ticket and 11 euros for a Paris-Marseille ticket. This would not only be good for the environment but also fair. Last November, at the beginning of the yellow vest movement, many of them did not understand why they were being taxed for their travel by car, for lack of alternatives, unlike those travelling by plane. A few hours from the Salon du Bourget, I would add that a rather remarkable increase in air traffic is expected, in France and around the world, and I do not think that such a measure would hinder it. This would also have no effect on competition given Air France's level of competitiveness. Another important point is an amendment that we defended last night, together with my colleague Dominique Potier: the measure that we proposed does not, of course, apply to so-called "territorial continuity" flights: our amendments clarify this and amend the general tax code. We have been serious because, let me stress, it is not possible to ignore the issue of air transport when it comes to mobility. On the other hand, I understood that iron was a priority. The amendments that I have just defended attest to the fact that it is possible to send a strong signal and not to put this mode of transport at a disadvantage compared to the air, whereas a number of lines have been somewhat weakened, as we all see. The adoption of this responsible and virtuous measure would send a good signal to the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u12	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u13	I would like to thank Mr Bouillon and Mr Potier, who are behind these amendments, for this proposal, which feeds our reflections started last night on the rebalancing of the participation of the air sector in the financing of cleaner mobility, given the environmental impact of this mode of transport. After yesterday discussing the issue of the exemption from the tax on kerosene, we are considering this morning the possibility of an increase in the cost of flights. Many runways need to be explored, but it seems to me that such a measure would be difficult to apply, for a very small number of flights involved; the revenue would therefore not be sufficient to meet the needs, taking into account the situation. You have cited some data that will allow us to measure this potential resource. It will be imperative to have such data in place to inform the choices that will be made in the Finance Bill when arbitrations are rendered as a result of this programming law. What volumes are we talking about specifically? I refer you again to Amendment No 3322, which will be discussed after Article 1e. It foresees that the Government, in the framework of the work of the European Union – because it is also at this scale that the reflection must be carried out, in order not to penalise neither French users nor French companies – will submit to Parliament, by 31 December 2019 at the latest, an information report on the levels of comparative taxation of the air sector in France and in the other Member States. I therefore ask that these amendments be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u14	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u15	I have heard the misunderstanding of our fellow citizens about the exemptions for air transport. But it is a debate that must be taken the time to ask, taking into account the figures as they are, including the fact that air transport also pays taxes. As the President of the Republic has said, and I repeat, the Government is in favour of taxation of air transport, in order to encourage virtuous transport choices but also to encourage this sector to accelerate its decarbonisation. However, in the past, we need to agree on the reality of the data on the evolution of greenhouse gas emission levels and market developments in the various segments of air transport. At the domestic level, it has been stable since the 2000s and decreases sharply on radial links, thanks to the development of the TGV, the high-speed train; On the other hand, overseas links are developing significantly – in this area, there are issues of territorial continuity. With regard to the evolution of greenhouse gas emission levels, for example, domestic air transport outside the sea has seen its emissions decline by 30 per cent since the 2000s. We must therefore debate the issue rationally while measuring its political sensitivity, and these two elements must not be incompatible. Once again, the President of the Republic and the Government are in favour of taxation of air transport, on the right scale, i.e., it seems to me, that of Europe. Amendments on the taxation of kerosene or banknotes have been introduced; As for you, you are proposing a third device. Let us take the time to debate to find the right solutions and avoid answers that may have perverse effects. Your proposal would have an impact on some links, at the cost of a mechanism of great complexity. I'm unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u16	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u17	The amendments tabled by Mr Bouillon are interesting because they lead us to reflect on the cost of transport, particularly air transport, and also on the revenue we can expect from this sector for AFITF. In this connection, I would point out that this agency's problem is linked not to its financing but to the dangling of the one which should have been reserved for it, since it receives only EUR 1.2 billion out of the 37 billion proceeds of the CTBTP. On all the benches of this assembly, we want a rebalancing between the different modes of transport not only at the domestic level but also and above all at the intercontinental level. Mr Bouillon is a very serious Member who has considered the matter, but his amendments – which he may consider to be appeal amendments – would lead to taxation only on domestic flights, such as a Paris-Marseille journey carried out by an executive or a business manager for professional reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u18	It's going faster by train!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u19	Let us take another example, in this case: a Paris-Aurillac journey lasts six hours by train or by car, compared to an hour and a half by plane. How do we do it? Should the Paris-Aurillac air link be exempt from the tax you are proposing? It's a real problem. Above all, the frame that would be on a domestic flight would be taxed while the vacationer who would fly to Bangkok or elsewhere in Thailand would not be taxed. And then, let's go to the end and not forget the merchant navy. If wood cut in the Jura is sent to China by boat and comes back in the form of furniture, thus depriving us of added value, it is because manufacturing in China has a financial advantage, but also and above all, we know, because the taxes applied to transport France-China and China-France are insufficient. It is therefore necessary to open up an overall reflection. It is a pity, minister, that the mobility policy bill does not address the issue – if that had been the case, the members of the LR group would have taken on their responsibilities – if not in the form of appeal amendments proposing a measure of which we do not know the precise contours and which could unbalance a number of territories without providing a comprehensive answer to the question of air transport and freight transit between producing and purchasing countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u20	Mr Damien Pichereau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u21	On the issue of air transport, many of us have evolved and become aware of the need for intermodal solidarity, by making everyone contribute. But we are looking at a programming bill: yesterday, we passed ambitious and sincere articles, I am sure – at least we will ensure that they are, as soon as the next finance bill comes up, because it is within that framework that we will have to deal with this issue, like that of freight transportation, which we discussed yesterday. However, it seems to me that we must start a joint reflection with the Government on these issues now: how can air transport be taxed a little more, which is already taxed, the minister recalled yesterday? How can we also involve the transport of goods in the effort to regenerate our road network, which is deteriorating, as I see in a report I drafted last year on the subject, as the Government did? The funding – which, again, will be examined in the finance law – must, in my view, be based on a mix. It is not a question of making contributions only for air transport or the transport of goods. I personally believe that funding must come from all over the world in order not to hinder the development of sectors vital to the national economy. But it is imperative that we move forward on these issues. Furthermore – on this point, I agree with Mr Sermier – our reflection must be carried out on a larger scale than that of France, at European and even international level. Why tax, for example, the Paris-Perpignan connection when we know that this journey lasts five hours twenty by train, compared to only one hour twenty by plane? Under these conditions, one can understand the inhabitants of Perpignan who take the plane. And it is also a way of opening up their territory: while we have talked a lot about de-enclavement, we are proposed to tax a means of favouring it; It's quite paradoxical, in my humble opinion. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I repeat, we must go further and think together about these issues as soon as the next PLF is considered. In the meantime, since we do not know the real impact of the proposed measures for users and businesses, we will vote against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u22	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u23	Although I feel a little alone, I would like to add a few comments. First of all, I welcome the tone of the discussion and the listening that has been given to me, because it seems to me that this is the way we must address these extremely important issues. Last night, I listened with great interest to the chairman of the committee of which I am a member, whom I very much appreciate: she told us that airfares should be taxed rather than kerosene. Of which act. Previously, the rapporteur had proposed in committee an amendment to allocate the surplus of the Chirac tax to AFITF, which needs additional revenue. I would point out in passing that the sum of 30 million that has been mentioned remains, at all events, quite modest in terms of yields. In any event, these amendments are the result of work and reflection. It takes into account documents obtained from the European Environment Agency and the Spinetta report, which makes very useful comparisons between the train and the aircraft on a number of lines. We've been being objected to for ten days, either because it's too late or because it's too early. However, I would like to point out that the start of our work was given several months ago at the National Mobility Assembly. You then made the important choice, Madam Minister, to bring together around the table many of the actors who could make proposals. You have even made the choice to organize, next to the National Mobility Facilities, the National Air Transport Facilities. We have heard the concerns that may arise sometimes in a sector that is highly competitive, although, I repeat, its growth rate in the coming years should be fairly sustained. In any event, the measure we are proposing would not be such as to threaten this growth. It would also have a virtue. In fact, contrary to what Mr Pichereau and Mr Sermier have said – of which I also welcome the seriousness – it would apply only to journeys for which there is a comparable alternative to the plane, as I explained earlier. Thus, it would not apply to the Paris-Biarritz link – I have already cited this example on purpose. It would not apply to all travel – the minister and the rapporteur have pointed out this as a grievance – but only to those for whom the train is an alternative, particularly from the point of view of travel time. Jean-Marie Sermier is quite right: it is quite obvious – as the Spinetta report points out – that many people agree to use the train provided they can make a trip throughout the day. This means that when you are at the head of a business or you have to travel to negotiate a contract, you try to reduce costs and avoid spending the night on the spot. Again, this amendment, which has been the subject of reflection and has been weighed down, answers all these very practical questions. He is the beginning of the reflection that the majority has been calling for his wishes for hours. I understand that the President of the Republic is not only in favour of the decarbonisation of air transport but also and above all of the implementation of a certain form of social justice through the various modes of transport. The truth, as in the case of the amendment tabled last night by our colleague Dominique Potier, is that there will be, on the one hand, those who will be able to use a mode of transport which is not the best in terms of greenhouse gas emissions – the figures, I would remind you, are 14 grams of CO per passenger per kilometre for the train compared to 285 grams for the aircraft – and, on the other hand, those who will have no choice but to take their cars every day to go to work, and who will be taxed, again and again, to bring back significant revenues through the ICTPE, which I remind you that part of the product is unfortunately not geared towards the ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u24	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u25	On the other hand, the only word "transition" indicates that it is obviously not a question of changing all our habits overnight, as if under the effect of a cutlet, but of accompanying their transformation. The amendments that we are defending would be capable of accompanying and anticipating this systemic change, aimed at initiating the process. Minister, if you consider that specific points of the proposed device need to be improved, you have the opportunity, within your regulatory authority, to correct the shot. Moreover, all precautions have been taken, safeguards have been provided. So, as you pointed out, Madam rapporteur, our amendments do not cover all journeys: that is correct, we wanted to do so. This can indeed be the beginning of a practical reflection: it is almost a question of carrying out a life-size experiment in order to finally deal with the question, which seems to me essential and decisive, in the name of ecology and social justice, of the means of favouring iron rather than air where possible. I add, dear Damien Pichereau, that we are often referred to the PLF – we often get this joker or that of Europe. We can understand that each one stacks the jokers he owns in his pocket. However, we are now called upon to vote on mobility provisions. But you always send us back to the PLF – and I imagine that when he arrives in discussion, we will be sent back to the next one. What is important is to make arrangements and set principles now, even if they are rectified and put in place by regulation, and why not during the review of the FLP. There is nothing to prevent us from adopting the provisions that we are proposing today and then clarifying certain aspects of them during the examination of the PLF. However, for several days now, you seem to suggest a referral of LOM measures – the mobility guidance law – to the next PLF, i.e. the reverse approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u26	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u27	I want the text on which we will vote to be as complete as possible, in accordance with what you wish, Madam Minister, because we have been thinking about it for several months and we have the matter for action. As far as impact studies are concerned, we do not have the hand, as deputies, to ensure that they are of a level comparable to what the Government can obtain, unfortunately it is a truth for this text as for many others. Moreover, there is always a delay between the adoption of a measure in public session and the publication of implementing decrees, which gives the Government the capacity to rotate the calculators and to carry out consultations, as it is customary, in some cases, to carry out between the adoption of a provision by the national representation and the publication of implementing decrees, with a view to refining the arrangements concerned. We are developing the spirit of the law today, I would say. Then we have to clarify things. That is why our colleague Dominique Potier and I maintain our amendments, which serve as a signal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u28	The Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u29	I am delighted that we are addressing this issue and that we are working to move forward. As far as the involvement of air transport is concerned, two aspects need our attention. First, it must contribute to its greenhouse gas emissions, through carbon contributions, in any form. This is already the case, a little bit, on a global and European scale, but this share needs to be strengthened. Secondly, we must determine how to finance our transport infrastructure, based on the text on mobility that we are debating, which is very demanding and ambitious, and that we need to finance the provisions. On these two points, we must find ourselves. An amendment discussed yesterday aimed at introducing a tax on kerosene. This, it seems to me, falls under the first aspect and can only be properly achieved at European level – I could elaborate on the reasons why it is so, but we will discuss it on other occasions. For my part, I prefer to focus on what we can do at the French level to ensure the financing of AFITF. We have begun, it is important to recall, by adopting in committee the allocation to AFITF of the surplus of the Chirac tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u30	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u31	Of course, the amounts are not huge,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u32	They're ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u33	... but this measure is a way of saying from the outset that the air sector must contribute to the financing of our infrastructure. It was important to adopt this provision and to include it in the law. For the rest, we know very well that we will not be able to reach a conclusion before the consideration of the finance bill, which includes the provisions that we are considering passing. The various proposals put forward show that, if we want to achieve something, we must, together, ask ourselves the right questions. Should domestic flights or international flights only be taxed? I would rather be in favour of the second option. Should we move towards a tax on air tickets or other forms of contribution from air transport, as there are others? For my part, I believe that a contribution based on airfares is a good track. How can we ensure that the territory's overseas and balanced trains are not penalized? These are some questions that we need to bear in mind in order not to mislead ourselves with a tax model. That, I believe, is the basis of the work that we all have to do together. I am ready, as committee chair, to work on this and to bring together the stakeholders concerned and our colleagues who wish to prepare the budget for consideration. We must not waste too much time because it is at this moment that negotiations are taking place and arbitrations are decided, so everything is decided. We must meet with our colleagues in the Committee on Finance – I see Mrs Cattelot in the Chamber – to work on the formulation of proposals, in connection with the Ministry of Transport, which we will be able to support in its negotiations with Bercy, which is not always easy, as we know! It is a matter of ultimately achieving a mechanism ensuring that the air sector is sufficiently present in the financing of our infrastructure. If we achieve this by the time the budget is examined, we will have succeeded not only in making the air sector contribute to the financing of our infrastructure, but also in providing significant support to our infrastructure. While other forms of funding will be explored, there is no reason why the air sector should not be part of the scheme. So I'll give you an appointment. For the time being, I will vote against the amendments, because we are going to carry out the work I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u34	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u35	This debate is interesting. I shall begin by making some general comments. [[Yolaine de Courson applauds]] As soon as we want to make significant environmental efforts, it's quite simple, there's no one left. All the arguments are good: "not right now, Mr. the executioner", "not at this place", "not at this scale", "we risk pushing our habits." It is quite obvious that our habits will be shaken! In the world of tomorrow, all our habits will be shaken, including in terms of speed of transport! Moreover, it may one day be necessary for us to pass a law praising the slowness; I don't know why we want to go faster and faster everywhere, especially to destroy nature... In any case, we must think that this world must change sustainably, with strong methods! Moreover, anyone who receives a good hammer change as if by enchantment. See the recent evolution of the automotive sector: a few months ago, when the European Union decided to act forcefully by deciding to reduce CO emissions from new vehicles by 37.5% by 2030, all carmakers supported, in the gallery after the gallery, that it was impossible, that they would not succeed; A few months later, the same people explain to us that they are going to do it, by changing their methods. The automobile, the first consumer of fuel and the first emitter of greenhouse gases, will change! We are going to act on a European scale, so much the better. However, it must not turn to "I hold you, you hold me by the barbichette", in this case, "not on the scale of France but on the scale of Europe, and not on the scale of Europe but on the scale of the planet".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u36	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u37	We must not give in to this case. Airlines and major national aviation groups must understand that the world will change over time, as it is no longer possible to continue this way. Of course, Minister, fuel consumption per passenger is decreasing, but overall air traffic is increasing, and the air sector must at all costs make a major contribution to efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. As you have said very well, Madam President, her contribution to environmental solidarity and development aid is also necessary, in the form of innovative financing. There's money everywhere, and more and more, but it's still concentrated in the same place. That we are tackling it very quickly seems to me to be a very good idea. That we are discussing this in the House in these terms seems to me to be a very good thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u38	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u39	We are returning to what brings us together, which is quite new, in this House, so that we can welcome it: the need to take account of environmental externalities, both of their assessment and of how to integrate them into our thinking and to take them into account ex ante and ex post. In this respect, the mention of the surplus of the Chirac tax by the chairman of the committee prompts me to clarify this point, which has been debated in committee. Of course, there is no question of distorting this tax. The EUR 210 million ceiling for the development solidarity fund, adopted at the time of its design, remains; This is the surplus to be allocated to infrastructure financing through the AFITF. Other measures remain to be imagined with regard to the Chirac tax, which has the merit of being in existence and being run. In this regard, I am making a suggestion to the debate, along with others that we have considered: this levy could be increased, or – I am giving this option to the debate – be indexed to the trajectory of the climate energy contribution, as some of our honourable senators have suggested.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u40	Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u41	I will give my testimony of being elected from the peninsular region of Brittany, whose capital, Rennes, halfway from Paris and Brest, benefits from an LGV, a high-speed line. After the exchanges we had with the yellow vests that were manifesting and the great national debate, we all adhere to the ecological transition and we all agree that we want to accompany it. However, the debate on the ICTPE highlighted a desire for transparency: where are these taxes going? What are they for? Personally, I am very much in favour of the introduction of an eco-contribution on the price of air tickets – by determining which, when landing in France or taking off from France, which would have the merit of being legible and visible, and would give meaning to a tax on air transport. Moreover, I am never in favour of competing with the modes of transport, which are likely to evolve. In the Committee on Sustainable Development, Augustin de Romanet, whom we have heard, stressed that he encouraged airlines, through charging from airports managed by Aéroports de Paris, to contribute to sustainable development by adopting cleaner and more virtuous modes of transport. I also take into account the social aspects of the provisions that we imagine. Taxing airlines means taking into account the resilience of low cost airlines, such as Ryanair, which serves Rennes Bretagne airport: in the event of taxation, they will act as a vice by strengthening their economies of scale, which would have consequences for their workforce.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u42	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u43	Everyone has recognized it, on every bench, our mentalities have changed; The French have reminded us of this and remind us very clearly Saturday after Saturday. That is why I hope that we will finally succeed in assuming our responsibilities, on every bench, on those of the Republican Group to begin with. Mr Bouillon, you opened a door last night, at one hour, it is true, late; It is important to move forward, and the discussion has begun again this morning. I do not know, Madam Minister, what the conclusions of the National Air Transport Assembly have been, because they have not benefited from the fires of the day as much as the National Mobility Assembly, which has been very productive. Perhaps you could give us some details on possible progress. The right, very modestly, had assumed its responsibilities by creating the Chirac tax a few years ago. We are ready to take on our responsibilities again, in a pragmatic and effective manner. The Government has opened a small door by providing for a reallocation of the surplus of the Chirac tax, but the 30 million euros so reassigned will not be the height of the needs of AFITF. Our group, in order to think a little bit about it, considers that the Chirac tax should not be distorted. But since it is a simple, pragmatic, efficient and distinctly applicable tax to business and economic classes, and to small and long mail, why not double it, which would make it possible to obtain about 210 million euros, that is, roughly what is missing each year from AFITF? The group Les Républicains is therefore ready to assume its responsibilities by proposing the doubling of the Chirac tax to finance the transport infrastructure, the regeneration of the road network and the modernisation of the SNCF network, and to meet all expectations in terms of ecological transition. It would also send a strong signal to the French who are calling us – I can see it on my Facebook page – on the fact that we charge the fuel of those who take their cars every day to go to work, but not that of air or sea transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u44	Mr Damien Pichereau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u45	First of all, I would be tempted to reply to Mr Pancher that I do not see myself praising the slowness during the 24 Hours of Le Mans – forgive my sarthic tropism! Mr Bouillon, you asked me about the need to get into the tough right now, without waiting for the finance law. Technically, for the time being, we are looking at the mobility policy bill, which sets targets – we voted on them yesterday – while the infrastructure is provided for in the financial programming 2018-2023, with an overall increase of 40%, as I recall. I will make a parallel with the military programming law, on which you abstained, I remember: we voted a global envelope, which we decline, each year, in the PLF. The debate that we have here is very useful, but we are not here now to put amounts in the rough. We can note, however, that on all the benches of the House we are ready to work on the subject. This is very commendable and will allow us to move forward with the next PLF; I hope that we will then have the ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u46	We're not saying anything else.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u47	Finally, it is regrettable that those we have heard the most for many weeks on this subject, who harass the crowds in the meetings, are absent when it comes to discussing the taxation of air transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u48	They don't have time to speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u49	I am thinking in particular of Mr Ruffin, who is not here this morning. That's unfortunate. Politics is not just a show.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u50	Call the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u51	It is unbearable that colleagues who can no longer express themselves because of the scheduled legislative time are being called into question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u52	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u53	This reminder is based on the first paragraph of Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Ruffin and I are the authors of the amendments aimed at eliminating unnecessary air links by rail.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u54	Mr. Ruffin isn't here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u55	But Mrs. Batho is here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u56	Because you have chosen the scheduled legislative time, I can no longer speak to put forward my amendments. However, I am here and will be there until the end. Your attack on the co-signator of these amendments, with which I have organised myself, therefore makes no sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u57	He could have come to defend your amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u58	Absolutely, because he still has time to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u59	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u60	We must return to the tone adopted by the rapporteur and Christophe Bouillon, because we are here in a substantive debate, we are gathered to define the most effective mechanism and we share the same analysis and ambition. We have too often, in this House, reduced these subjects to political or even political aims. The amendments provide for the measure to enter into force on 1 January 2021, so we still have time to finalize the proposed scheme. For, without repeating all the arguments, I believe that it could have perverse effects. I'll only talk about my experience in my territory, the Upper Rhine. Although a tax treaty has recently been concluded with Basel-Mulhouse airport, 90% of flights operated at this airport are still on the Swiss side, due to more favourable taxation – people in my department even fly to Zurich when the fare conditions are more advantageous. If we do not take into account this type of behaviour, which affects all the border areas of the country, people will not hesitate to travel 200 kilometres by car to fly from a foreign airport – German, Belgian or Spanish – which will cause both an increase in greenhouse gas emissions and a loss of tax revenues. Let us think about the perverse effects of the measures we plan to take. At the same time, issues of scale must be taken into consideration. Our colleague Pancher spoke of the electric car: the switchover will only take place if all the actors adopt new behaviors. However, France emits only 1% of the world's greenhouse gases. We are already very virtuous and will be even more virtuous – we can and want to be much more virtuous. However, being virtuous by itself in France will only improve the global situation: by earning between 0.1 and 0.3%, nothing will be saved. The issue of global warming needs to be addressed globally; Europe is therefore the minimum scale at which solutions can be proposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u61	So you're suggesting you don't do anything?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u62	We are all very involved, but we need to find the right mechanism to trigger the greatest number of levers to combat greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u63	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u64	I welcome the proposal of the chair of the committee: we need to meet quickly to think together in the perspective of the future finance bill. These amendments, which would have the effect of a modal shift on the train, also raise the pragmatic question of train tariffs, which can be prohibitive for a family. We should therefore reflect upstream with SNCF on the proposed tariffs: the cost of a Paris-Marseille, I repeat, is prohibitive for many families, which hinders the use of rail. Moreover, in the event of a modal shift on the train, we must think about the infrastructure, as we already started yesterday: the Bercy Burrow will not be able to absorb an increase in rail traffic. The question is therefore global. We are all in favour of an upstream reflection on the taxation of air transport and the virtuous dimension of our travel. That is why, I repeat, we agree with the Commission President's proposal to work quickly on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u65	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u66	Mrs Luquet, one of my fights is to offer TGVs at affordable prices, and this is one of the objects of the railway reform. The trajectories of tolls had previously led to absurdity: their constant increase in the price of tickets, it would paradoxically have had the effect that high-speed lines built at the stroke of billions would ultimately lead to TGVs in circulation and fewer passengers transported. I support SNCF in its policy of developing Ouigo TGVs. The number of tickets increased from 7 million in 2017 to 13 million in 2018 and will rise to 25 million in 2020. The TGV must be accessible to all. The use of the high-speed lines that have been built must be maximized by offering the maximum service to our citizens. Mrs Lacroute, the National Air Transport Assembly has been an opportunity to discuss with all stakeholders in the sector, but perhaps they have not been sufficiently open to other sectors. Connectivity issues were discussed, which are all the more important given that our country is present on all five continents and that the position of overseas countries in their regional basin is crucial. Connectivity issues also concern the metropolis, with the landlocked territories, which we have discussed extensively in recent days. These meetings also provided an opportunity to discuss the economic, social and environmental performance of air transport, which we are debating this morning. We need to think about the capacity to have zero carbon aircraft tomorrow: we need to give this objective, given the revolutions that aviation has already been able to operate. These foundations have also looked at the distortions of competition in this sector, which are a little stressful to its players. I am thinking in particular of the difference in social security contributions between France and the Netherlands: at home, it is 30 euros extra per banknote. It is true that in France, social security contributions finance pensions, for example, while elsewhere their cost is borne by pension funds. In any case, the subject has been raised and we need to think about it. When Sweden and the Netherlands boast about promoting an exemplary ecological vision of air transport and say they are ready to tax tickets, I would like to point out that a 100 euro air ticket includes 56 euros of taxes in France, compared with only 30 euros in Sweden and the Netherlands. So let us not be naive: we must take into account the effects, which have been mentioned, of deporting traffic to neighbouring hubs. Environmental and social dumping is a source of very serious disorder on a global scale, that of Europe and that of our country. Mr Sermier referred to the case of wood produced in France and returned to it after being processed in China. We could also talk about strawberries produced in Senegal sold less expensive in France than strawberries from the Périgord, which is to say at least inconvenient. We also mentioned yesterday other paradoxes, such as e-commerce sites that propose to change the products ordered several times by guaranteeing free transport, while transport is not free, because people take care of it and it has an environmental impact. I am pleased that we are debating these issues today, because they must be taken together, with global action planned. I would remind you that France is a driving force at the global level, both at the IMO – the International Maritime Organisation – and at ICAO – the International Civil Aviation Organisation – ICAO. We support a 50% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from the maritime and aviation sectors by 2050. This is what we must do to keep track of the path resulting from the Paris agreement. Certain guidelines must be firmly defended at European level. I would add that we must not dissociate social dumping from environmental dumping: we must address it at the same time. I had the opportunity to fight in the framework of the mobility package last year, and I hope that the European Parliament will give it an opportunity during the next parliamentary term. There are also, let us be clear, issues of tax dumping between Member States: the fuel tax, in particular, is extremely low in Spain or Luxembourg. Fighting must be conducted on a European scale. In this context, we need to determine what we can do at the national level. Many ideas have been raised in recent days: to impose a contribution on shippers in line with their greenhouse gas emissions; the introduction of a decal or contribution from the aviation sector. Progress needs to be made, including at the national level, on the modalities for the contribution of polluting activities and modes of transport to the financing of clean and virtuous modes. I welcome the proposal of the chairman of the committee, and the Government will of course be at the disposal of your committees to participate in these reflections.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u67	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u68	I hear your remarks, minister, and you helped convince me to change my vote: I wanted to vote in favour, but I will abstain, for several reasons. First – rather than a criticism, see the concern to bring information back from the ground to the ministries, as many of us do – French citizens consider that politicians speak a lot but act little. In fact, it was a little in this way that they welcomed the Prime Minister's general policy speech the day before yesterday: the programme is interesting but will it be at the end of its ambitions? The expectations of the citizens, who did not understand why they had to suffer the continuous increase in the fuel tax, which triggered a new grunt on the territories, and that the Government was not sending a strong signal to the major polluters, namely, those involved in the maritime and air sectors. I will, however, abstain because I understand that you are sensitive to the need to improve rail transport conditions across the country. I'm from Tours. The TGV line from Saint-Pierre-des-Corps to Paris is the most expensive in France: the price of the average ticket is 65 euros, when that of Paris-Lille is 35 euros. We reduce the number of return trips to Paris, and, as they become rare, they become expensive – it's a little in this way that we manage to increase the price of the ticket. The 30% delay rate is not acceptable: it is one of the highest in France. Some users warn us of the unsatisfactory nature of rail transport in the territories and ask us to improve it. Madam Minister, you told us that, in some landlocked departments or municipalities, domestic air transport was essential – you mentioned, very late last night, Aurillac and Brive. If rail transport is of good quality and well organized to reduce transport times, citizens will use it – and there is no point in adding that if it operated with hydrogen, it would be ideal. We must start by encouraging the French by offering a quality service. So, with regard to the problems of the Saint-Pierre-des-Corps line in Paris, I really need a little help – call me "Mme Plus"! However, on behalf of the IDU and independent group, I say that I will abstain, and I ask for two strong commitments. First, Madam Minister, we must act effectively by working on this tax – why not double the rate? – as part of the finance bill. Secondly, the chairman of the committee, it is necessary for the committee to meet with Mrs Karima Delli as soon as she has been appointed chairman of the Committee on Transport and Tourism in the European Parliament, as is likely – in any case, she has held this position throughout the previous parliamentary term. I am also thinking of Dominique Riquet, who was elected MEP on the Renaissance list,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u69	Excellent Member of the European Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u70	... is a remarkable man and very influential in the European Parliament on the subject of transport. We need to rely on the men and women who bring our word to the European Parliament and to the other European institutions, so that they are aware – as far as Karima Delli is concerned – of the need to stop looking elsewhere when the house is burning and to influence the Transport and Tourism Committee on this matter. Indeed, you are right, France must stop overtransposing and shooting itself in the foot by introducing taxes when the other Member States do not do anything about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u72	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u73	Mrs Auconia's speech encourages me, for my part, to maintain my amendments. Mr Pichereau, I am not one of those who harassed the crowds. First of all, I have little time to see them these days... Then, with my colleague Dominique Potier, we have tabled thoughtful, built and worked amendments, which introduce useful debates before the national representation – as we see right now – and allow us to begin a transition, a shift from one system to another, a "systemic" evolution, according to the expression correctly used by Dominique Potier. Minister, it is true that, in doing so, certain habits are sometimes shaken. There are obstacles and obstacles, and some sectors are holding back four irons to prevent these changes, which are necessary to respond to the environmental emergency and also to the social emergency, since we are experiencing social dumping in this area, as you pointed out earlier. These amendments refer to two key issues. First, they ask the question of the financing of AFITF, which takes a big place in our debates: how can we abound its budget? It has been repeatedly reiterated that there is a lack of at least EUR 500 million to allow infrastructure programming on time and with the appropriate funding. Several amendments were intended to provide additional resources to AFITF. Our colleague Jean-Baptiste Djebari proposed, in a very relevant way, a kind of loan and partial financing by the motorway companies, which would make it possible not to aggravate the country's debt. This night, we proposed the abolition of the TICEP exemption for kerosene, with a key recipe of 250 million euros – excuse me for a little – that is much more than your proposal for the Chirac tax. Many ideas, coming from all the benches – I welcome this – are thus helping to find the necessary funds for AFITF to be able to afford its ambitions. Secondly, with these amendments, we refer to the involvement of the air sector in the ecological transition which we wish to see. Madam Minister, you are right to tell us that zero-carbon aircraft offer prospects. Like flying fish, they exist, but it's not the majority of the species! This perspective is part of a time horizon that does not correspond to the ecological emergency. We need to change habits now, and we can do so in two ways: either by regulation, or by a good shift in the product of the tax, which would make it possible to send a signal by price and to change many behaviors, it is obvious. But you give us an appointment later, during the examination of the PLF. All right. Madam chairman of the committee, you are making an interesting proposal: that we should work together. We welcome this and wish to contribute to the reflection, but we need to speed things up. If we have to deal with the PLF with key elements, the report referred to by the rapporteur must be on the table almost as early as 1 October,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u74	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u75	... so that we can think with all the data and figures – even if, I repeat, the subject is already well documented, no one can say the opposite. Bruno Fuchs pointed out earlier that the provision laid down in our amendments applied to 1 January 2021, i.e. not tomorrow morning! This leaves time to initiate the pump, in a way, and to lay this strong principle; Until then, the Government will have time to specify, by decree, how this principle is to be applied. In addition, the reflection to which we are invited by the chairman of the committee will allow us to correct the shot, if necessary, during the examination of the PLF. We all want to decarbonize air transport and affect taxes so as to change behaviour. When, together with Dominique Potier, we propose this measure, which is almost homeopathic and which, as you said, will not have great consequences, but which lays down a principle and opens an interesting perspective, we are told that it is impossible and that it would almost be revolution. If we are not able to do this, let me doubt that we are able to do more tomorrow. These amendments allow us to know whether we are "cap' or not cap'" to embark resolutely on this path, not only with words, but with principles. National representation has a say. That is why I am maintaining my amendments. My little finger tells me that I am doing a little "autosolism" on the subject: if they were not adopted, they would be placed again on the PLF, because we must defend this measure with absolute conviction and determination.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u77	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u78	First, an explanation of vote: I will follow the advice of my friend and colleague Sophie Auconia. And I would also like to make two short reflections. [[Smile]] First of all, I don't think I'll ever see any zero-emission airliners and even be fossilized for a very long time when they exist... I do not adhere to the cult of progress that will regulate everything. Indeed, I do not believe that progress will always settle everything without us making efforts and changing our relationship to nature, on the basis of the values that drive us, in this unbridled consumer society that leads to nothing. We must be very careful not to mislead public opinion and our fellow citizens by telling them that they do not have to worry and that technical progress will do everything. Technical progress will help us, but it will not solve everything, especially for transport which requires huge amounts of energy. In any case, this progress will pose other types of problems, as we have seen in particular with regard to nuclear power – but we are not going to reopen this debate. Everything is possible, but the conditions of everything are particularly complicated. Secondly, I am pleased that we are considering doubling the Chirac tax, and I hope that we will do so. What a beautiful idea this tax, a little crazy at the beginning! Indeed, everyone thought that it was completely crazy to tax airline tickets and, in addition, to give that money for development aid, that is, for the poorest countries. If we double the Chirac tax rate to double development aid, congratulations! This will prevent the Mediterranean, the cradle of civilizations, from becoming its coffin, with all those people who die there without sometimes even a crocodile tear. So, let us double the Chirac tax rate and make sure that it can also help us increase the development aid budget, so that the poorest countries in the South can at least continue to develop, especially in view of the environmental damage that we Westerners have caused with our greenhouse gas emissions and our development that has not cared about that of others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u79	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u80	I listened carefully to this whole debate, because I thought that the arguments put forward in detail by Christophe Bouillon and his work with Dominique Potier would convince. They have indeed taken into account the fact that it was necessary, without abrupting things, to give a strong signal – that is the meaning of the amendments – so much so that the Prime Minister himself, two days ago, said that he had understood the message and was going to speed things up. Our colleague Pichereau was talking earlier about a programming law. Precisely: such a text lays down principles,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u81	The goals!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u82	... without this meaning that they must be implemented immediately; These amendments are aimed precisely at establishing a principle, on which we all seem to agree. Then comes the question of implementation, raised by the minister, the committee chair and the rapporteur: we need to set up sliders and establish contacts. We all seem to agree on the principle: for reasons of social justice, it is not possible for some French people to pay taxes on a daily basis – VAT, etc. – while others, because they use a different or faster means of transport, and on the pretext that it is complicated, would not be subject to the same tax constraints. That's not acceptable. If it's complicated, I understand that it takes time, work and energy, but this complication comes from what we didn't do. And it will be all the more complicated since we will not say what is happening, including when we examine the finance law, because if we have not set the principles in advance, other priorities will be required. In order to guide the finance law, it is therefore necessary to affirm principles now. The present amendments, in their nature, form and argument, are not immediately binding, but they open doors in which we all have to get involved in order to bring about a lasting change in the system. Because we will have to change it considerably; We need to hear the messages of the population and researchers, who invite us to act very quickly. It is precisely because we are invited to act very quickly that we cannot postpone the principles until tomorrow, that we must set them now. Perhaps we shall postpone the implementation to a later date, because the exercise remains to be done, but it is now that we must affirm the principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u83	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u84	I cannot accept the way Mr Bouillon puts the debate: there are not those who are "cap" and those who are "not cap"! We all share this analysis and, as we will try to show in the coming weeks and months, we are all capable – in any case, we all have the will – of radically transforming our transport and production model. So the question is not: it is a question of saying that we share this will. Today we set the main principles, but we see that the proposed measure is not up to expectations. Christophe Bouillon himself speaks of a "homeopathic" measure. However, the situation is not one of those who treats themselves with homeopathy. We therefore agree with the principles that we are setting out today and that have been set out on all of these benches, but it is clear that the proposed measure is not up to the challenges. It is therefore necessary to propose another measure, on another scale, with more necessary implications and transformations. Of course, we will all be working on this in the coming weeks, but we cannot vote on these amendments as they stand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u85	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u86	Mr Fuchs, last night, when Dominique Potier and I proposed to remove the exemption of ICTPE for kerosene, it was a recipe of 250 million euros that was refused. We were told that we were going to push everything. For that matter, it wasn't homeopathy. So you see that some of our proposals in this area were bold – and this is not over. In any event, and this is the profound meaning of these amendments, it is necessary that at some point, as Jean-Paul Lecoq quite rightly said, the signal comes, otherwise we will not be credible if we are to make the air also a contributor to the energy transition tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u87	I put to the vote Amendment No 3248.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u88	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 41 Number of votes cast 36 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 4 Against 32
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u89	I have before me the amendment, No 2430, on which the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left has submitted a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u90	We are looking for ways to finance transport infrastructure in order to make the ecological transition. First of all, minister, we need to speed things up. I heard yesterday, as in the last decade or so, that some services did not have the necessary human resources to accelerate the investments vital to the future of our territories. I therefore urge you first of all to provide the means to recruit human resources in your services, in the various organizations, in SNCF and elsewhere, in order to speed up the movement. We are told that the new Paris-Normandie line cannot be made faster because we do not have the human resources to carry the files. It's a real problem. With regard to financing, I recall that in 2005 the Government took the decision to sell its shares in motorway companies in order to finance various public investment programmes and to meet its European public deficit commitments. This unfortunate decision was an economic aberration. If, instead of privatizing the motorways, the State had remained a majority shareholder, it would have received dividends from private companies in its place, thus being able to finance transport infrastructure and carry out another tariff policy. BTP's large companies that are now carrying out these contracts, either directly or through subsidiaries, have for more than ten years been holding colossal profits, while the price of tolls continues to rise. It is estimated that by 2032 these companies will have earned the pharaoh sum of €40 billion in profits. During the previous legislature, many parliamentarians were moved by this situation, asking the Government to review concession contracts. However, it appears that the convergence between the state and the concessionaire companies is a long-term obstacle to any change. For budgetary reasons, the State continues to give in to the facility by turning to motorway companies for investment purposes, even if it accepts, in return, a continuous increase in the price of tolls. This deeply unhealthy situation must be brought to an end, which also leads local authorities to accept, under pressure from concessionaires, the co-financing of operations already financed by tolls, in order to speed up the implementation of projects that have been overdue for years. To take over, the state has only one solution: to cancel the contracts, to pay between 25 billion and 50 billion euros of compensation to the concessionaire companies, and to take over the management of the motorways, of which it remains the owner. This solution was advocated in 2014 by a parliamentary committee of inquiry but swept away by the then government. Such an option would also put an end to the practices of these companies, which have put in place a tariff policy of the most predatory, similar to a real racket of users. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Toll dividends must serve the ecological transition and investment in transport infrastructure. We therefore wish to ensure the nationalization of concessionary companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u91	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u92	We had this debate in part yesterday,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u93	And it's not over!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u94	...and my opinion will be the same:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u95	Sometimes the night is a good advice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u96	... such a derogation from ordinary law would be ineffective for contracts already concluded. At worst, it would expose the state to litigation and high risks of penalties that would obliterate our entire mobility and transport policy. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u97	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u98	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u99	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u100	I will help Mr. Lecoq with my support. From a technical point of view, of course, this measure may not be hyper-judicious, because it would expose us legally, but the question is not there. The substance of this amendment is that we must go back to the motorway concessions. I remember, moreover, that we voted in this House, during the consideration of the finance bill for 2018, a request for a report on a point that was not very great: the possibility, for police officers, firefighters and rescue services, to pass free of charge on motorways. The Constitutional Council has even censored this proposal and we have not made much progress on the subject. We have the impression that the operators to whom motorways have been granted never make an effort, however small it may be. Perhaps, then, we should make them one to finance these new mobilitys. And, since they do not make efforts on their own, perhaps the best way would be to regain control of these infrastructures, which have been built with the French money and are now used to exploit them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u101	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u102	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Bernalicis, I would like to inform you that free relief services will be implemented from this month of July.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u103	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u104	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u105	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Minister, this is excellent news. That should have been self-evident for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u106	It's his way of thanking him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u107	Is it possible to utter a sentence without you betting? [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The time it took is symptomatic of the fact that we are dispossessed of our infrastructure and that we must always go and negotiate, including for things that are self-evident. It is unbearable that we have so little sovereignty over our own infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u108	Mrs Zivka Park, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u109	I would like to remind you that we are in the rule of law: once contracts are signed, we are all obliged to respect them. The situation is as follows: we have signed contracts...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u110	Not us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u111	Maybe not you, but those who were...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u112	We respect the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u113	Don't take it for yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u114	I just want to remind you that contracts have been signed. It's not you who signed them, it's not me either, but we have to deal with them. Let us therefore try to do the best we can and adopt the provisions that we propose to provide a better framework for the situation. Contracts have been made like this and we cannot do otherwise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u115	Yes, we can!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u116	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u117	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] I understand the speech: There Is No Alternative, it's like this and not otherwise; continue to give your money to the private, who puts his pockets full with his dividends, and circulate, there is nothing to see!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u118	Oh! The audience is listening to you, Mr. Bernalicis!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u119	It is our responsibility to decide today. Our colleague proposes that you decide to terminate these contracts: of course, it will have a cost – for my part, I am even for it to be done at zero cost, and could pass a law to that effect, because they have had enough of that – but it is the responsibility of the parliamentarians of this country!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u120	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u121	Let us try to calm down the debate: we must not take the point for you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. Our colleague simply pointed out, and he was right, that, between the decision taken in the Chamber and its implementation on the ground, the meanderings of the administration are such that decisions are sometimes lengthy to implement. Our role is also to advance our country, as well as all departments and agencies. We have seen very well, through a number of topics discussed over the last fifteen days, that we must sometimes provoke a little in order to move forward. I think that was the point made by Mr Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u122	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u123	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] I don't stand up for him, but sometimes you have to impose yourself a little temperance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u124	Mr Bruno Millienne, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u125	Mr Bernalicis, I am talking about this all the more calmly because, if you remember, the party to which I belong had violently opposed the privatisation of motorways in 2005.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u126	He was right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u127	He was certainly right. We could indeed consider returning to more normality or, at least, to what existed before, so that the State could benefit from it. But recognize that today we are looking for funds to ensure the transformation of mobility and to ensure that every citizen of this nation has a means of mobility to go to work or simply to move freely – that's what this is all about. You are aware that the purchase or termination of autoroutary concessions would cost the State a considerable sum.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u128	That would cost 50 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u129	Between $25 billion and $50 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u130	Perhaps I am wrong in advancing this figure of 50 billion; The minister will correct me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u131	That's what the minister said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u132	That's right. If these 50 billion were to be spent on it, we could not finance everything we want to develop; wait for the opportunity to do so. You are in your role as an opponent by putting this topic on the table but admit that the feasibility of your proposal is a problem and that you offer yourself a rather easy political episode. We can't afford to do this right now and you know it very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u133	All we have to do is debt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u134	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u135	Thank you for this "you offer yourself a pretty easy political episode": I always appreciate this kind of compliments! The issue is financing sustainable development. Either you're looking for funding immediately to do things right away,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u136	We don't have them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u137	... to implement the bill on which we are working, either you consider that it is necessary to invest immediately, even if you are in debt to find 50 billion, knowing that it will then bring back billions for decades that will allow us to go much further than the ambition that you have today! We therefore propose that you nationalize motorway companies not to achieve an immediate result but to have the means to finance the ecological transition in the coming decades. We offer you a device that can no longer be virtuous...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u138	Making 50 billions of debt is not virtuous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u139	You have a short-term view. You see no further than the tip of your nose! We propose you to see the future of our generations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u140	With debt?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u141	Yes, with debt! Virtuous debt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u142	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2430.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u143	For young people!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u144	Against the debt! And for the young!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u145	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 34 Number of votes cast 34 Absolute majority 18 For adoption 3 Against 31
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u146	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 3292.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u147	Its purpose is to allow the regions to adjust the tax on grey cards according to the power of the vehicles. With the acceleration of the acquisition of competence by the regions – it already represents a significant part of their budget, and often even the first part – it is necessary to allow them, in order to absorb these new expenditure, to collect revenue accordingly. This also has a virtue since this tax would be adjustable according to the power of the vehicles, in order to favor vehicles without doubt less powerful but also less consumer, so probably with a much better carbon balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u148	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 2646.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u149	We propose that you create a "metric environmental harmonisation tax", as we called it in our amendment. This idea is beginning to make its way: the more products come from afar, the more they are taxed, so that geographically close products cost less. This would therefore have a twofold effect: to fill the funds to finance mobility; to encourage the relocation of economic activity. This idea is part of environmental protectionism at the borders of Europe, which, to my surprise, has been defended by many political movements in this House – and so much the better, indeed, because we have been preaching this subject in the desert for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u150	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u151	This measure would be one of the components of the arsenal that could be implemented. We refer to a decree to define this tax in detail because there are probably indispensable goods that we do not produce in France and that should not be taxed too much. In any event, this should, in our view, be the general principle, a virtuous principle, to relocate the activity. When you relocate your business, your product comes closer, it is easier to transport it and it costs less in transport costs: we thus set in motion a virtuous circle with such a tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u152	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u153	The relocation of production and consumption is one of the challenges of the ecological transition. However, such a tax, confined at national level, would be ineffective or even counterproductive, in any case handicaping to our economy. I therefore call for action at European level; That is what our Members of the European Parliament are doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u154	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u155	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u156	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u157	I will even supplement what you have just said, Madam rapporteur: in reality, we could not create this tax under the current European treaties because, if France alone adopted such a tax, it would be a breach of free and undistorted competition! As we have a form of political coherence, we would disobey the European Treaties in this case, in order to send this signal to the European Union: it is time to act! We can no longer wait for the agreement of twenty-seven or twenty-eight Member States to decide that a tax is needed: we must move forward! Bruno Le Maire, one of the members of your government, also proposes to do this with the GAFAs, the digital giants: if I have understood correctly, France, at the forefront of the fight, wants to start putting the hoàà – of course, saying "it's enough now" with a 4% tax on turnover, it's not huge, but that's always what it takes! In terms of ecological transition, France was at the forefront, in any case in the minds, during COP 21; With the environmental kilometric tax, this time it may be possible to do so in the practical implementation of measures to move forward. We are only 12 years old, according to the IPCC report – Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. You can argue with me that the IPCC report is nonsense, but I don't believe it. We are only twelve years old: this, in my opinion, is the average time limit, if all goes well politically, for such a tax to come to light at European level. So I'm telling you, we don't have time anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u158	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u159	Madam Minister, with your colleague Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, I am the trade agreements between Europe and other countries or intra-Europeans. At no time was the idea that the Government could defend a virtuous tax on proximity raised; In any case, I have not seen it in international agreements!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u160	Yeah, well...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u161	Tell me what it's in? In CETA, the overall economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada is not there; in the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and MERCOSUR – the South American Common Market – this is not there; In the JEFTA, the free trade agreement between the European Union and Japan, too! Read them! Let us know the article of these international agreements in which it appears, and I will share your opinion! For now, I don't know.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u162	That's not really the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u163	In all the meetings we had at the Quai d'Orsay, at no time were these questions raised; But maybe I wasn't listening when they were addressed by the minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u164	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u165	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u166	Amendments Nos 1403 by Mr Matthieu Orphelin and 47 by Mr Vincent Descoeur as well as identical amendments Nos 1249 by Mr Fabrice Brun and 1688 by Mrs Josiane Corneloup, which can be discussed jointly, are defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u167	On these amendments concerning the definition of tasks and the composition of the Infrastructure Guidance Council, the IOC, there is nothing new in relation to the discussion we have had in committee. I repeat, therefore, that such a level of detail does not fall within the scope of the law but rather within the scope of the Order-in-Council, which calls for a degree of vigilance. In addition, it appeared to me that the reduced format was operational and that it was better to stick to a rather tight composition, since this body was not a deliberative assembly where all interest groups would be called upon to be represented. The precedent of the National Transport Council, a plethora of organizations, has shown, I believe, the limits of the exercise. However, we agreed that it would be beneficial for the IOC to include a representative of environmental associations as well as a representative of users. It seems to me important to involve them in these reflections, and they are prepared to organize themselves to choose a representative from among them, but it is not necessary to include it in the law: freedom must be left to the Government to provide for these provisions within the framework of the decree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u168	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u169	The opinion was unfavourable, for the reasons set out by the rapporteur. I confirm that the Order will take into account environmental associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u170	I have before me five amendments, Nos 25, 1046, 3216, 3342 and 3341, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 25, 1046, 3216 and 3342 are identical. Mr Vincent Descoeur's amendment No 25 is being defended. Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 1046.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u171	In view of the strong involvement of the regions in the financing of transport infrastructure, this amendment seeks to ensure that three representatives of the regions sit on the Infrastructure Guidance Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u172	Amendments Nos 3216 by Mrs Valérie Rabault and 3342 by Mrs Valérie Lacroute, identical to the previous ones, are being defended. Amendment No 3341 by Mrs Valérie Lacroute, in joint debate, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u173	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 701.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u174	It is intended to add to paragraph 4, after the word "MPs", "three senators and, with an advisory vote, representatives of interested professional groups designated by order-in-council". As the key governance body for monitoring infrastructure investment programming, it is important to ensure a permanent dialogue between the various actors. Of course, this is already planned, but the IOC should be opened to senators, who represent the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u175	I have before me four amendments, Nos 2389, 747, 1889 and 1626, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 2389.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u176	The aim is to ensure that, among the parliamentarians who will sit on the IOC, there are representatives of the opposition groups. We all have to win such a plurality. This has been demonstrated through our work and through the participation in the National Mobility Assemblies of many parliamentarians who, although not belonging to the majority, have contributed to it. It is important to ensure that the reflections in the Council reflect the diversity of our origins, experiences and political horizons. If we want to strengthen the COI, it's important.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u177	Amendment No 747 by Mr Sebastien Leclerc is being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1889.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u178	The composition of the Infrastructural Guidance Board suggests its action. However, the bill only mentions the participation of three members of Parliament and three senators, which is cause for my concern. It would have been interesting to clarify in the law that these six persons had to ensure pluralistic representation. The IOC, if it wants to be effective, must first work in the service of the territories; I therefore believe that it is necessary to ensure the political plurality of its members. On the other hand, why mention only parliamentarians? The important thing, I repeat, is the French, the ones closest to their territory. I therefore propose that the IOC be composed of seventeen members, including local elected representatives representing regions, departments and municipalities, as well as six qualified personalities recognized for their expertise in transport, economic assessment, land use planning, the environment and financing, and who are true connoisseurs of local realities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u179	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 1626.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u180	In the same spirit, paragraph 5 should be supplemented by the following sentence: "It is intended to ensure, inter alia, a representation of the diversity of parliamentary groups. » I would point out that today all the Members of the IOC come from the Republic on the move. We need to measure how much the plurality of an instance makes it rich. It's a real added value.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u181	I have before me two amendments, Nos 3250 and 3310, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 3250 by Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe is being defended. I call Mr Lecoq to support Amendment No. 3310.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u182	Our colleagues in the GDR Group from the overseas departments and territories have often alerted you to the particularities of transport in their territories and to the consequences which may have on the development of these territories, the conditions of transport, the means allocated to them and their organisation. By this amendment tabled at the initiative of Gabriel Serville, we propose that among the parliamentarians who will sit on the Infrastructure Guidance Council there should be a parliamentarian from the overseas departments and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u183	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u184	Unfavorable opinion, for the reasons already given.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u185	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 3264.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u186	He finds his inspiration both in the priority you give, Minister, to the maintenance of existing networks and in the work of the Senate information mission on bridge safety. The aim is to ensure not only that the IOC is able to draw up multi-annual plans for investment in infrastructure, but also that it determines a minimum amount of expenditure by type of infrastructure, all of which must be specified by decree. If such a priority is to be given, it is important to indicate what minimum level of investment one wishes to make every year in order to upgrade – without bad words – each infrastructure. The IOC, whose role has just been reaffirmed, has every place to carry out this work, given the reflection it has already conducted and the composition you wish to give it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u187	The rapporteur, Mrs Bérangère Abba, has the floor to support Amendment No. 3582.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u188	It is a question of deleting the reference, introduced by the Senate, to a parliamentary debate. In fact, the imposition of an annual report on the progress of the financial and operational programming of State investment in transport by both chambers, following the submission by the Government of the annual report on the progress of the financial and operational planning of State investment in transport, does not seem appropriate to include in their agenda a debate in the Chamber, since this debate will in any event take place in the context of the debate on the orientation of public finances, in the context of the examination of the draft finance law and in the context of the discussion of the draft budget regulation law, in the context of the examination of the appropriations of the programme 203 "Transport infrastructure and services". In addition, the commissions have the flexibility to address the issue and ask the Government to come and discuss the programming. In fact, the chairman of our committee, Mrs Pompili, made a commitment yesterday to hold an annual exchange and debate session on the state of programming.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u189	Amendment No 3097 by Mrs Typhanie Degois is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u190	Mr Vincent Descoeur's amendment No 823 is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u191	He's unfavorable. The report provided for in Article 1c shall cover the implementation of the programming. If the IOC is concerned with the direction and strategy, it is up to the Government to take responsibility for this report before Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u192	Identical amendments Nos 827 by Mr Vincent Descoeur and 2506 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u193	Identical amendments Nos 824 by Mr Vincent Descoeur and 2397 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u194	Amendment No 720 by Mr Charles de la Verpillière is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u195	Mrs Bérangère Abba has the floor to support Amendment No. 2219.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u196	It is an amendment of drafting precision: it is appropriate to speak of "revision" rather than "update".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u197	On Amendment No 3587 on the additional article after Article 1 C, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche). The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendment No 1254 by Mr Fabrice Brun is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u198	I have before me two amendments on the additional article after Article 1e C. Mr Vincent Descoeur's amendment No 28 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u199	The Government having tabled after the expiry of the deadline an amendment to the Additional Rule after Article 1 C, an additional ten minutes for each group and five minutes for non-attached Members shall be allocated for the discussion of this amendment, pursuant to Rule 55(6) of the Rules of Procedure. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 3587.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u200	I have already referred on several occasions to this amendment, which seeks to empower the Government to legislate by order to create project companies, which may be necessary in order to speed up the implementation of certain infrastructures. This provision, which I believe is expected, responds in particular to requests made in several amendments, relating to the Bordeaux-Toulouse lines, Montpellier-Perpignan and other projects defended by communities, such as the Anneau des Sciences in Lyon and, perhaps, the third line of the Toulouse metro, not to mention all the mobility issues that arise in the metropolis of Aix-Marseille. For these large projects, the creation of a dedicated company can be a suitable solution. Such companies can assume a long-term debt and can be financed by local taxes. This creation, I have had the opportunity to say, must not lead to an additional levy on the programming defined by the Infrastructure Guidance Board, but it can allow us to speed up a number of projects, if that is the expectation of local authorities and if we succeed in achieving a financial package based on local resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u201	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u202	He's in favor. This amendment, announced by the Government at the time of the committee's consideration, was, if I may say so, in the attached report, which states, in its last paragraph, that "the State shall accompany the implementation of financing companies enabling the identification of new territorial resources and innovative financing". The amendment implements this provision by specifying it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u203	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u204	I want to say a little bit about this excellent amendment, to thank the Minister, who is thus giving concrete consideration to the creation of public mobility institutions. In doing so, Madam Minister, you reaffirm our confidence in the expertise and intelligence of the territories in organizing travel and transportation networks. As you said, you give to the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence – I insist on this last name, which is close to my heart – the tools for developing a mobility policy that is commensurate with its economic, ecological and, above all, human potential. For all these reasons, the La République Group is in the process of voting resolutely for this fine amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u205	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u206	I commend Jean-Marc Zulesi for saying that we will of course support the amendment. In committee, we had tabled amendments of appeal on the same subject, as the Government's amendment was in the process of being drafted, as the rapporteur has just pointed out. Trusting territorial intelligence, which is real, seems to me to be the right method. This amendment also offers us a kind of guide, or shows us the way, to achieve, on a reasonable horizon, the infrastructure expected in the territories. I would therefore like to thank you, Madam Minister, for proposing this measure: you have heard the territories and the many parliamentarians who, in this House, advocated for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u207	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u208	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u209	The amendment is interesting, Madam Minister, but it would be acceptable to me if it were extended to other matters. Could these establishments, in particular, take control of motorway companies, since the Government did not want to do so? They could purchase them through "regionalization" or "territorialization" to fund other projects. The Government would thus remain faithful to its dogma, which is to refuse any nationalization, while the territories, in their intelligence, would make the necessary arrangements for the proper use of tolls, which from the bridges of Normandy and Tancarville, to the benefit of territorial development, which from the highways surrounding my good city of Le Havre, from which one cannot leave without paying. The territories could finance infrastructure projects or, for example, free public transport. In short, if you extend the scope of this amendment to allow the territories to influence the nationalization of motorways, I will vote for it; Otherwise, I won't be able to.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u210	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u211	The IDU and independent Group will vote for this amendment, which in its view has a great virtue: that of giving concrete action, as soon as possible, to the pragmatic reflection which you say is taking on the territories and the means of involving them. Territories suffer; they need concrete action. The amendment goes in that direction, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u212	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u213	Traditionally, minister, I am not in favour of orders, but I will of course make an exception in this particular case. The ordinances are welcome here, and I will not even be able to recommend too much that you go ahead with the 24-month deadline for their adoption. These project companies will allow the territories to accelerate certain projects. As you know, the new Montpellier-Béziers-Perpignan line has been expected for more than thirty years. In this regard, we were quite disappointed by the IOC report, which postponed the completion of this line to a far too distant time frame. You offer us today the opportunity to go faster; I'm glad, and the Biterrois, I think, will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u214	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u215	The Montpellier-Perpignan line project has been dragging on for years, as it is still the same people who oppose the allocation of new resources for infrastructure projects, starting with the heavy-duty tax. I therefore welcome the fact that new measures, often condemned in the past, in certain political formations, are now being supported on all sides of this House. Very well: to all sin mercy. The major investment projects we are talking about will therefore be supported by new resources, and we are very pleased with them. We had also defended an amendment to Article 1a, and others to the annexed report, establishing ad hoc financing companies, on the model, in particular, of the Société du Grand Paris. So all this goes in the right direction. The Minister of Economy and Finance had also supported the proposal to finance the Bordeaux-Toulouse LGV by such a company. The investment strategy envisaged here involves the creation of an ad hoc company, in the wake of provisions introduced by the Senate. These companies will simplify the governance of projects and, above all, significantly accelerate their implementation. Indeed, flexibility is needed: defending public services does not mean nationalizing them all. Nationalizing everything would be going back to ancient times, dragging everything around and making nothing happen. Good Bye, Lenin! No one wants such a step backwards. Initiatives exist in some areas, as you know, to find innovative financing; I am thinking in particular of the office tax. Our group had tabled another amendment, which would have introduced a regional eco-tax similar to that provided for by the European Community of Alsace. Your amendment, unanimously defended on our benches, is therefore very welcome, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u216	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u217	The Republican Group also supports this amendment, which it considers relevant. For several days, we have been advocating for effective and pragmatic solutions, which enable the territories to carry out the transport infrastructure that the French, as we all know, need. These ambitious projects can be cumbersome; Hence the need for precise arrows. I will end with a wink, to congratulate myself that the Société du Grand Paris and the Chirac tax, both created by the right,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u218	The social right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u219	[[Smiles and exclamations on several benches of the LaREM group]] ...have set an example here. After a few days of debate, this little ray of sun gives us a pleasure that we do not squander.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u220	Good ideas don't have a party!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u221	Edouard Philippe is from your home, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u222	Mr Bruno Duvergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u223	Everything has been said about this excellent amendment, which meets the needs of the ground. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will, of course, vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u224	I put to the vote Amendment No 3587.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u225	Come on, Mr. Lecoq, vote it! That way, it will be adopted unanimously!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u226	[[Smile]] Come on, Jean-Paul!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u227	He can do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u228	It's a historic election!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u229	The minister didn't answer me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u230	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 39 Number of votes cast 38 Absolute majority 20 For adoption 38 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u231	He did it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u232	No...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u233	[[Smile]] You will be rewarded, Jean-Paul!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u234	Amendment No 2956 by Mrs Delphine Batho is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u235	We come to amendments on the additional article after Rule 1e(D). Amendment No 2797 by Mrs Delphine Batho, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 3598, is being defended. Mrs Bérangère Abba has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3598 and to give the committee's opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u236	The amendment, which is relevant, fills a hole in the racket identified in the reports issued respectively by the EESC – Economic, Social and Environmental Council – and the CNTE – National Council for Ecological Transition – on the draft law. Above all, it is based on a feedback on the "LOTI balance sheets" – the law of guidance for inland transport – i.e. the ex post reviews of infrastructure projects. My sub-amendment gives the Minister responsible for transport the opportunity to have this assessment carried out by a third party in the event of failure of the contractor. I give an opinion in favour of the amendment, subject to the adoption of this sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u237	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u238	The same opinion: in favour of the amendment, subject to the adoption of the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u239	Perfect! Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u240	Amendments Nos 2860, 2854, 2871 and 2894 by Mrs Delphine Batho are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u241	The Commission has deleted Article 1e E. I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 279, 446, 484, 1457 and 3251 to restore it. Identical amendments No 279 by Mrs Annie Genevard, 446 by Mrs Émilie Bonnivard and 484 by Mrs Jeanine Dubie are being defended. I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 1457.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u242	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-I group]] [[Smile]] Let me first of all welcome the presence in the stands of the public of young people of my constituency, who came from the beautiful city of Ligueil by a virtuous means of transport, the TGV – which, this time, was on time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u243	Everything's happening!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u244	This amendment, of which Christophe Naegelen is the first signatory, aims to introduce into the transport code, at the beginning of the section on the general principles of the organisation of public transport services, a generic article which commits the public authorities to maintain and develop existing equipment and networks, particularly in the rail sector, in order to avoid, for example, the deterioration of the balance lines of the territory or of the spatial planning lines – such as the two remaining night trains serving Briançon and Rodez – or the closure of secondary TGV stations. I repeat, minister: secondary lines are not secondary to everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u245	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u246	That's my slogan. For our fellow citizens in rural areas, such as Ligueil or Loches in my constituency, for all those who have the price of fuel to use the car, the secondary lines become main and priority. We must take the measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u247	Amendment No 3251 corrected by Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u248	I thank Mrs Auconie for drawing our attention once again to the obvious need for a mobility offer tailored to the needs of populations and territories. However, my opinion on the amendments is the same as in committee: they are redundant in relation to the operative part of Article 1a and to its developments in the attached report. I therefore request that it be withdrawn; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u249	Mr Vincent Descoeur's amendment No 49 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u250	I have before me an amendment No 3322 which is the subject of two sub-amendments, Nos 3597 and 3600. Mrs Bérangère Abba has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u251	We have already talked a lot about this: it is a matter of involving the air transport sector, because of its effects on the environment and the need for joint participation of the various transport sectors in the maintenance of infrastructure and the development of clean mobility. Under the amendment, the Government would provide us with a report on this matter by 31 December 2019. This date was originally chosen to allow the report to feed our thinking in the context of the finance bill, while leaving us enough time to pass this bill. Mr Bouillon's sub-amendment No 3597 tends to reduce the date of submission of the report to 1 October 2019. We are all confident in our ability to vote on the bill by October 1, and the minister is committed to providing us with the required information within this time frame. I shall therefore give a favourable opinion on this sub-amendment. I welcome the perspective of this report to study and evaluate the different levels of taxation applicable to the air sector in France and in other European countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u252	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 3597.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u253	There is no need to repeat the important debate that we had earlier, in great serenity. I thank the rapporteur for her favourable opinion, which will allow us to have the conclusions of the report at the very moment when we begin the discussion of the finance bill. That has been said, we all need to make an informed decision. The chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development suggested that the report could also be presented and debated in the committee. This, of course, seems to me necessary, as I believe many of my colleagues do: each of us wishes to have a look at the report, but we also need to share our understanding and analysis of the data, in particular the figures, and the comparisons it contains. Madam President, do you confirm that we will be able to have the report in time to examine it in committee from October?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u254	Even before!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u255	I call Mrs Auconia to support sub-amendment No. 3600.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u256	I would like us to go a little further, in the continuity of our debates this night and this morning. The amendment does not clearly set an objective for the report. I therefore propose, by my sub-amendment, to clarify that the objective is "a better contribution by the air transport sector to the fight against climate change". "If you want a file not to advance, create a commission," said General de Gaulle, following Clemenceau; That's kind of what we're about to do. To calm Members of Parliament, a report is proposed, but if it has no purpose, it will be useless while taking valuable time from Members of Parliament, administrators and members of the Minister's office. Let us therefore give ourselves objectives!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u257	What is the Committee's opinion on these sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u258	Mrs Auconie's amendment is satisfactory: we have one objective in asking for the report, namely to feed our thinking on the possible involvement of the air transport sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u259	It would be better if you wrote it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u260	As for Mr Bouillon's, I said, I am in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u261	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u262	As the rapporteur has said, Mrs Auconie's amendment is satisfactory, because the report is intended to enlighten Parliament, which, like the Government, aims to make a greater contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by the air transport sector. I give an opinion in favour of Amendment No 3322 as amended by Sub-amendment No 3597.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u263	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u264	I can hear you, Madam Minister, the rapporteur. Nevertheless, it is only a report, and it would have been good if we had defined in a more ambitious way what we expect from it. That is what I was hoping for after we withdrew several of our amendments last night and abstained on others that we could have voted for. I really regret that we did not send this signal, even if a report is not prescriptive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u265	Do you maintain your subamendment, Mrs Auconia?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u266	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u267	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u268	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I thank all of you for the good manner in which we have discussed Title I A. We were all aware of the stakes involved; It retains its importance and we will continue to debate it until the finance bill. I am confident that our discussions and the ways in which they have made it possible will enable us to move forward towards a budgetary package that will give us the means to achieve our ambitions, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u269	Mrs Françoise Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u270	Nearly a year ago, the Prime Minister entrusted me with the task of formulating proposals to ensure quality training in driving in any part of the country in a sustainable manner, by ensuring the accessibility of examinations and the driving licence itself through deadlines and prices. This objective is fully in line with the President's desire to combat all forms of house arrest. As we know, driving licences are at the heart of the concerns and daily life of the French. It is the most successful exam in France, with 1.5 million candidates per year, and – I would like to point out – the only diploma that many of our fellow citizens have in their pocket. It not only makes it possible to move, but it is also an instrument for strengthening the social link, as it facilitates access to employment. In 2017, of the 3.4 million bids submitted to Pôle Emploi, 17.2% required the possession of Licence B. Driving permits are therefore a powerful lever to reduce the territorial divide at work in peri-urban and rural areas or in those with the greatest economic and social difficulties. The permit is not limited to a simple administrative authorization: it validates a driving ability. The quality of training is crucial to the safety of all. While the latest figures for road mortality are falling – which is why I would like to welcome the action of the Government and the road safety delegation – 3,500 people lost their lives in 2018 on the roads of France, metropolis and overseas. Young people are particularly affected: road accidents are the leading cause of death among 18-24 year olds. Overseas, the situation is even more worrying: on average, 201 young people per million inhabitants die on the road, compared with 113 in metropolitan France. We will all agree, I think, on the central role of the permit as a tool for social and professional emancipation and on the need to enable everyone to obtain it. It was also the will of the Government, which presented on 2 May a series of ambitious measures; We're going to look at some of them. In the course of the numerous hearings and trips that I have made, I have acquired the conviction that making the driving licence accessible to all certainly means reducing the cost, which remains high for many households – between 1600 and 1800 euros – but also to allow access to this training throughout the territory and, above all, to all the public. It is possible to control the cost without compromising quality, by strengthening the educational continuum of road training, by using the new tools resulting from the digital transition and by reorganising and fluidizing the chain of actors. First of all, it is necessary to allow every young user of an individual means of transport to acquire a real citizen culture responsible for travelling in the public space. It is the role of the continuum that I have just mentioned, which will be promoted by national education, and which will lead to the free presentation of the road code on the occasion of the universal national service. Controlling costs without compromising quality also requires the use of all educational and organisational tools in driving learning to optimize training. While it is difficult to reduce the cost of one hour of individual training, given the qualifications of instructors, the use of new technologies makes it possible to rationalize the number of hours of practice. Driving simulators are a particularly interesting tool in this respect: placed in real-life conditions, the young apprentice can learn, for example, to drive under snow or to control emergency braking, or to become familiar with particular situations and behaviours. Their use would also allow the first lessons to be shared and provide opportunities for young people to interact in an interactive manner. The professionals I met were unanimous in pointing out that this peer-to-peer learning method allowed for a better understanding of the rules of the road code and promoted virtuous behaviour. An amendment to accompany car-schools in acquiring a simulator by means of a damping device was adopted in committee, and I welcome it. Finally, a better visibility of the date of passage of the practical examination will limit the number of hours to what is strictly necessary. Indeed, each month of time earned corresponds to 200 euros savings for the candidate. This is an important tool for reducing costs. The committee has adopted an amendment to this effect, which will test the autonomous and online registration of candidates in five departments of Occitanie. By selecting their date of departure in advance, candidates will be able to optimize their training and only make the number of driving hours strictly necessary. In order to be able to move towards the most appropriate solution, the candidate must also have transparent information on both the cost of training and its quality. The Prime Minister has endorsed the creation of an online bid comparison, which will allow the candidate to better orient himself; That's good news. Making driving licences more accessible also means allowing access to this training, I stress, throughout the country and to all the public. To this end, it is important to have a dense territorial network and learning solutions adapted to all audiences. During my mission, I met with professionals who are proud of their work in the service of the general interest and who want to serve future drivers throughout the territory. The fundamental changes in our society are not without consequences on their activity. The development of mobility, as well as the reforms initiated in 2015, have increased the demand for responses from the general public. There is, I believe, room for everyone in the field of road education, but all actors must be on an equal footing. To this end, controls must be strengthened to ensure the quality of the training course. This is an imperative to ensure healthy competition in the sector and to ensure road safety. The generalization of a dematerialised driving booklet will ensure that students have followed the 20 hours of compulsory driving and that they have been dispensed by a qualified professional. Before I give the floor, Madam President, I would like to stress that this debate must of course continue. Everyone must be able to express his views on the conditions for his social and professional emancipation and on safety on our roads. The issue of accessibility of driving licences, safety and road education requires an ongoing effort, and I would like to pay tribute once again to the professionals, associations and volunteers who work with our young people to enhance the safety of all.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u271	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u272	I would like to go back to the very purpose of Article 31, the provisions of which are intended to strengthen the protection of driving licence inspectors on the one hand and the fight against dangerous driving behaviour on the other. With regard to the inspectors, there has been a steady and worrying increase in the number of attacks against them. The aim is therefore to take protective measures, in particular by creating a provisional administrative ban on the examination of the driving licence, which would be imposed for a maximum period of two months. With regard to the fight against dangerous driving behaviour, it should be noted that a driver under the influence of alcohol is 8.5 times more likely to be responsible for an accident, that a quarter of fatal accidents involve an alcoholic driver, that the risk of an accident is tripled when driving and twenty-three times when a text is read while driving. As for excessive speed, it is the first cause of accidents. The fight against these behaviours has two components: strengthening our repressive arsenal; prevention and education. Article 31 provides for several measures that are in the right direction. The installation of an ethylotest on board the vehicle, the retention and suspension of the driving licence, the use of immobilization and impoundment are all devices that will help to protect drivers and users.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u273	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u274	I would like to echo the words of those responsible for driving schools in Seine-Maritime, who have drawn my attention to several provisions of the bill, which follow on from the work done by our colleague Françoise Dumas. No one can oppose the lowering of driving licence prices, provided, as has been pointed out, that we do not question the quality or proximity of motor schools, two points on which we must remain very vigilant. We can certainly lower the price of the driving licence, but at what cost?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u275	Yeah...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u276	Many aids already exist to finance the driving licence. They are national, regional and sometimes local. Like many other aids, they are difficult to access because they are unknown or complex to implement from an administrative point of view. Among these aids, one can raise the permit to 1 euro a day, the personal training account, the aid to apprentices, the communal aids to the permit – in my constituency, there are in Canteleu, next to Rouen, in the city of Trait, a smaller municipality, or in Saint-Pierre-de-Varengeville – or the "passes'permis", as in the Haut-de-France region. It cannot therefore be said that the local authorities have remained with their arms crossed or their arms swinging. Many of them have taken steps to support those young people who most need help. As the minister recalled when the text was presented, it is not enough to see many young people in difficulty when seeking training or employment, because they do not have a driver's license. Mobility is essential, and everything that helps facilitate mobility is in the right direction. However, it is difficult to know the various existing aids. However, local auto-schools can direct young people to the appropriate devices. This is the case for the 1 euro per day permit: when they welcome young people and their parents, they inform them and even propose to fill in the files in their place. Community driving schools also assist in the creation of digital records for applications and renewals of titles. Since the launch of the "new generation prefectures" plan, these online requests are sometimes a real Chinese puzzle for users. Again, auto-schools play a crucial role, and they should not be weakened. We must remain very vigilant and preserve the proximity network that we are fortunate to have. Community driving schools are also useful in explaining to users the operation of the point permit, which sometimes prevents them from being left without a permit by negligence. They shall also be able to advise them in the event of changes to the provisions in force. For local driving schools to survive, as I know, they must be regulated and, therefore, controlled. You stressed the importance of this issue, Mrs Dumas. The supervisory bodies – the inspectors of driving licences, the Regional Directorate for Enterprise, Competition, Consumer, Labour and Employment, the DIRECCTE, the Union for the Collection of Social Security Contributions and Family Allowances, the USSRAF, the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumption and Fraud Prevention, DGCCRF – can only act at departmental level. The Prime Minister, in his policy statement, wanted the administration to be as close as possible to the citizens, and he was right. In this case, it seems to me that it is at the departmental level that the activity of driving schools can be monitored to the best extent possible. But the press has cited many examples of online auto-schools that have engaged in scams – excuse the term – or false advertising. This was echoed by the DGCCRF. However, it is sometimes difficult for the administration to prevent these scams, simply because control is not up to the stakes. That is why I stress this point: national accreditation may weaken local self-schools and, if not prevent, the work of regulating and controlling administrations, which is necessary in this sector. It is not contradictory to the desire to lower the costs of driving licences. Again, aid schemes have been adopted for several years. We must probably make an effort to make them better known. I also propose that we value and accompany the local authorities who offer young people these mechanisms which are in the right direction. I invite you to observe the results of their action. I have in mind a very specific example, that of a commune which applies the principle of giving and giving: it gives the possibility to pass the driving licence against aid in favour of the municipality; This encourages young people while at the same time giving them a better understanding of the activity of a municipality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u277	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u278	[[Several MPs: "Driver's license! »]] [[Rites, exclamations and applause]] The building permit is the sesame... The building permit, yes, in a second phase, because to have the building permit, you have to work, and to work, you have to have a driving licence. Don't try to upset me, colleagues!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u279	It's done!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u280	The driving licence, therefore, is the sesame of entry into life for many young French people, especially those living in rural areas. In metropolitan areas, given the density of urban transport, this famous sesame can be dispensed with. Noting the difficulty of passing the driver's licence, either because they cannot afford it or because they are stopped by its technicality, some young people choose a catastrophic option: they drive without a licence. We must therefore find solutions to improve training, fluidize it and reduce its cost. Christophe Bouillon spoke of this, and communities have already taken initiatives to reduce the cost of driving licences. In my town of Dole, for example, we finance it in part in exchange for the citizen's commitment to associations. We are in favour of price reform and revision, but we do not want the uberisation and break-up of a network of car-schools that works well today. The heads of these institutions and the trainers have the necessary skills: they have been trained, their training has been validated, and they are able to pass on their knowledge. Safety, which has no price – as you said when we talked about speed on the roads – begins with good training. Of course, we need to renovate the system, but by maintaining the ability of our auto-schools to do their job. We must be wary of the self-entrepreneur who suddenly declares himself to be responsible for the training of young people. Over 20 hours of driving training, five hours can already be provided on a simulator. That seems to us a good ratio. On the other hand, it seems a little more complicated to move to ten o'clock out of twenty. As for the complete dematerialization of training, it would in our view be catastrophic. So, I repeat, we say "yes" to the reform, but "no" to the uberization of auto-schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u281	Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u282	First of all, I welcome the quality of the work of our colleague Françoise Dumas, to whom the Government had entrusted a mission in order to initiate the reform we are considering. When parliamentarians do their work well, field work, consultation work, it is important to highlight and highlight it. This assessment is also shared by all the political groups, which have carefully examined the proposals of this parliamentary mission. [[Smile]] These proposals must take into account both the sustainability of the professions in the auto-school sector and the need for reforms. Not only should current activity not be prevented, but it needs to be given opportunities to integrate new technologies and to help it transform. I think things have changed significantly: there is a gap between the slides that some have known to study the code – that was also my case – and the new tools that young people use on their tablet or phone, in training, in high school or in university. We need to make these communication tools available to auto-schools. [[MM. Jean-Charles Colas-Roy and Jean-Marc Zulesi applaud]] We all wish to include, within the framework of the universal national service, certain aspects of driving training. We know how important this is to adulthood and emancipation. It therefore has its full place during this moment of gathering the whole nation around universal values, which also allows to transmit the essential skills necessary to emancipate itself, whatever the social and economic background of each one. Mrs Dumas, we will support the amendments that the Government or you yourself will make in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u283	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u284	As you said, Mr. Sermier, access to a driver's licence is, for many young people, a real sesame for entry into working life and even adult life. Facilitating and fluidizing this stage is therefore a major challenge; Mrs. Françoise Dumas explained it very well. Of course, we will not compromise on the quality of training, but we will be careful not to weaken auto-schools, whatever their model. Ms. Dumas referred to the over-amortization mechanism to facilitate the purchase of simulators by auto-schools. Controls of all types of car schools, including online car schools, will be strengthened. I would point out that the qualifications required for the accreditation of an online car school are the same as for a traditional car school. The introduction of the digital learning booklet will allow the state to detect any anomalies in practices – this point seems important to me. Prefects will continue the controls already in place in the field to track down illegal auto-schools. The judicial authority will also be able to carry out enhanced coordinated controls within the framework of the departmental anti-fraud committees. Finally, an annual report will be submitted on the implementation of all the measures in Mrs Dumas' report, in particular those relating to the new online tools. This assessment will be made with representatives of the auto-schools. I hope I have responded to the concerns expressed by Mr Sermier and Mr Bouillon. I repeat that the national portal that will allow the comparison of auto-schools – the data will also cover the deadlines for passing the practical test of the driving licence – will also identify the various aids. This obviously requires communities to feed the portal, but we will have at least one national point that will give a vision of all the aids.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u285	We come to the amendments to Article 31. I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 1500 and 2913. Mrs Zivka Park has the floor to support Amendment No. 1500.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u286	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to begin with you the consideration of Title V of the bill. I think we'll be done tonight, or in the night – we'll have to hang on! Amendment No 1500, sometimes referred to as the "Waze amendment", has already made it known. It would make it possible to block, at the request of the police, for a limited period of time and within a circumscribed area, the reports by motorists of the location of the checks. The main objective of the amendment is to remove the most dangerous people from the road in order to make them safer. Indeed, the scheme will only apply in very specific cases: in the event of a kidnapping alert, escape from prison or psychiatric hospital; in the case of police checks carried out in the context of the fight against alcohol and narcotics; in the case of research in the context of the fight against terrorism. After the attack on Charlie Hebdo on 7 January 2015, the Kouachi brothers managed to escape from the police for a significant time thanks to the reports broadcast on Waze. Since discussions have already taken place outside the Chamber, I would point out that this provision will not apply to speed controls. In reality, the goal of signalling on Waze, Coyote or other such applications is to slow down motorists. As long as this is the objective and these tools will achieve this result, we will not prohibit them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u287	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u288	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor to support Amendment No. 2913.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u289	The rapporteur has been very clear: this is before a public safety and public interest measure aimed at facilitating the action of the law enforcement authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u290	Amendments Nos 2095 and 2097 by Mrs Zivka Park are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u291	Amendments Nos 2224 and 2134 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u292	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u293	I shall make it on the basis of Rule 58(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Since Wednesday evening, Members who are not registered have no more speaking time under the scheduled legislative time procedure. We no longer have the right to speak, but we are present in the Chamber so that our amendments are called. Madam rapporteur, Madam Minister, I understand that you want to move forward quickly, but could you take the trouble to explain, in a word or two, why you are rejecting our amendments? I am thinking in particular of the one who has just been rejected, which aimed at ensuring that teenagers can, from the age of 14...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u294	Mrs Ménard, you cannot defend an amendment as part of a point of order. I think everyone has understood what you mean by the amendments that you can no longer support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u295	Mrs Laurence Gayte has the floor to support Amendment No. 3011.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u296	Mrs. Anne Brugnera is the first signatory. Road safety is an issue of education. Indeed, awareness of the dangers that can be encountered when driving and of the risks that can be posed to others by criminal behaviour – such as driving without a permit, under the influence of alcohol or after the use of illicit substances – must be realized from an early age. As a result, we propose that, as part of road safety training, a driving risk awareness course be offered to college students and their parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u297	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u298	Article D. 312-43 of the Education Code states: "In order to enable pupils, road users, to acquire responsible behaviour, road safety rules are taught by schools providing first and second level education. The amendment is therefore satisfied. I invite you to remove it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u299	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u300	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u301	Mrs Laurence Gayte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u302	The amendment also aims to involve parents in awareness-raising courses. It does not seem to me entirely satisfied with the provision you have just referred to. In the absence of Mrs Brugnera, I shall keep it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u303	Mrs Françoise Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 3031.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u304	It aims to create a digital training booklet. This proposal, which emerged from my report, was taken up by the Prime Minister on 2 May last as part of the announcements on the reform of the driving licence. This learning booklet, which is mandatory for all candidates for the driver's licence exams, will include information on the candidate, teachers or attendants and, where appropriate, the driver's school or the approved association. He will also mention the number of hours taught and the level reached by the pupil during his training. This information will allow for a better assessment of candidates' level of preparation and their ability to pass the practical exam. The public road education services will have access to this document and will be able to communicate with applicants at the various stages of their journeys. They may also carry out compliance checks. In so far as the collection and retention of such personal data is to be carried out, it is necessary that this provision be included in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u305	Amendment No 2098 by Mrs Zivka Park is a consequential amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u306	Amendment No 2100 by Mrs Zivka Park aims at correcting a reference omission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u307	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2987 and 2988, which can be presented together. Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u308	Jean-Noël Barrot is the author of these amendments concerning noise pollution. Amendment No 2987 aims to strengthen the fight against noise caused by motor vehicles by introducing an obligation at legislative level to equip them with a silent exhaust system. Amendment No 2988 seeks to tighten the penalties for drivers of two-wheelers who, even temporarily, withdraw the silent exhaust system from their vehicles, following the pattern of penalties provided for persons who withdraw their air pollution control system. It is a question of discouraging such behaviour, which causes intolerable noise nuisances for the residents of the roads concerned. We had discussions on this in committee, and I remember that the minister then referred to a charter of good conduct being drawn up between manufacturers, sellers and bikers; We'd like to know where she is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u309	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u310	We have indeed debated the matter in committee, and I have not changed my mind since then. The law must lay down the general principles; There is no need to include the regulatory part of the road code, which already provides for penalties for noise pollution. I have an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u311	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u312	It does not seem to me desirable to copy the regulations in this way into the law. I confirm to you, Madam Member, that a charter is being drawn up. I understand that Mr. Barrot is particularly interested in the matter; We will ensure that it is involved in the finalisation of this work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u313	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u314	In view of these explanations and of the Minister's commitment that the work on this charter will be carried out collectively, in particular with Jean-Noël Barrot, I withdraw the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u315	Amendment No 2102 by Mrs Zivka Park is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u316	Amendment No 2099 by Mrs Zivka Park is a consequential amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u317	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 3009, 2227, 2916 and 2222, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Laurence Gayte has the floor to support Amendment No. 3009.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u318	This is an amendment to the appeal of my colleague Anne Brugnera, who proposes to replace in the road code the reference to "involuntary manslaughter" with the reference to "homicide". Indeed, the characterization of a road accident is debated according to the circumstances of the accident. It is easy to understand that a loss of control or an "ordinary" road accident can be characterized as involuntary in most contexts. However, in some cases, especially when the driver adds up the offences and deliberately takes the road, the homicide can be characterized as voluntary. Given the judge's appreciation of the intentional nature, it is also proposed to increase the prison sentence from 10 to 15 years when several circumstances mentioned in article L. 232-1 of the Road Traffic Code are proved.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u319	Amendment No 2227 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended. Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor to support Amendment No. 2916.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u320	It is a question of changing the terminology used in the case of a fatal road accident. Indeed, everyone can imagine what the families of the victims who hear throughout the trial feel like: "involuntary homicide". It's a real torture for these families. I therefore propose, with this amendment, to replace this formula with that of "road homicide". This would in no way change the elements of the offence or the penalties incurred, but would allow these families to send a message of appeasement, taking into account their pain, a pain for life, revived throughout the trial because the accident is described as "involuntary manslaughter". [[Emmanuelle Ménard applauds]] This is a common sense amendment that the families of victims expect from us. I repeat that it will not change the characterization of the offence or the penalties incurred, but will allow them to send a very positive signal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u321	Amendment No 2222 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is defended... in a certain way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u322	[[Smile]] That's very well said, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u323	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u324	Mrs Lacroute, I understand your concern and I sincerely share it. I also understand the willingness of the victims' families to characterize what happened to them in a slightly more precise way. However, from a legal point of view, your amendment would unfortunately have no impact.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u325	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u326	Nevertheless, it would amend the Penal Code, since it would lead to the creation of a new, specific category of homicides, designating those committed with a vehicle. It seems to me necessary to retain the notions of voluntary homicide and involuntary homicide, because I fear that the semantic developments you are proposing will lead to confusion in the texts in force. I do not hope that unfortunate interpretations will lead to the classification of intentional homicides as road homicides, and thus to the reduction of the applicable penalties. The opinion is therefore unfavourable on all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u327	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u328	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u329	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u330	I sincerely regret, for the families of victims, this very legal response that does not take into account their emotions...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u331	Yes, she took it into account! She said she shared it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u332	You will take the floor later if you wish, my dear colleague, but allow me to express my opinion. This legal response will not satisfy the families – I think you are aware of it, Madam rapporteur. I am saying that the idea is not to change the sentence, but to take into account, during the trial, the pain that families experience systematically hearing, for hours, "involuntary manslaughter", when it is a road homicide. I would point out that this qualification is not intended to be generalised in all cases, since it would apply only to fatal road accidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u333	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u334	Mrs Lacroute, I understand that we are here in the register of emotion. However, if these terms were changed, how would you qualify the accidents caused by the baby cars? Two years ago, Angela was sitting on the terrace with her family, quietly eating a pizza, when a baby car hit them. She's dead. Will we say it's a road homicide? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think it's important to keep a particular semantics to distinguish intentional and manslaughter. Changing semantics would not change, as you say yourself, the pain of the victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u335	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u336	This could only lead to confusion in the Criminal Code. I gave an unfavorable opinion, not on the principle itself, but because of the consequences of such a change of vocabulary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u337	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor to support Amendment No. 2917.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u338	This is to add to the list of aggravating circumstances, in case of road homicide, the use of the mobile phone by the driver. There has been a great deal of debate, including in this House, about the shift from the 90 to 80 km-hour limit to reduce the number of victims on the roads. In this case, I suggest that you send a signal to all drivers who use their mobile phones. Of course, this amendment would not create any additional sanction. The list of aggravating circumstances currently includes drunk driving, driving under the influence of narcotics, driving without a licence, excessive speed, the offence of escaping, but not the use of the mobile phone, which is nevertheless prohibited by the regulations and causes, I would remind you, one in ten traffic accidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u339	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u340	The road code prohibits the use by the driver of a vehicle in circulation of any device likely to emit sound, but specifies that this prohibition does not apply to electronic devices correcting deafness. Even if this is not its original purpose, because of its drafting, your amendment would make the wearing of these devices an aggravating circumstance, even though it is not prohibited. With regard to the issue of hand-held mobile phones, we have already passed several provisions that reinforce the ban. As it is written, your amendment poses a practical problem: it can be difficult to prove that a person was holding the phone at the time of the accident, as the issue of data related to telephone requisitions does not provide this evidence alone. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u341	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u342	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u343	I'm holding it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u344	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2918 and 1543, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor to support Amendment No. 2918.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u345	Analogous to the previous amendment, it concerns the driver who has taken medicines classified as dangerous for driving. Unfortunately, I am referring to the accident that took place in Millas, in which several college students lost their lives. It turns out that the driver had taken Level 3 drugs. I suggest that you include the use of such drugs in the list of aggravating circumstances. It is well indicated on the cartons of these medicines that driving is prohibited, but the accident in Millas reminds us that it is absolutely necessary to add their use to the list of aggravating circumstances. This will enable the police and judicial authorities to carry out the necessary investigations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u346	Amendment No 1543 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u347	I'm sorry, Mrs. Lacroute, but I'm going to have to give you another rather technical answer. The impact of a drug on the ability to drive depends on several factors: the active molecule and the side effects it can cause, the dose, route of administration, duration of treatment, the pathology to which it relates and possible interactions with other medicines, alcohol or narcotics. It therefore seems difficult to distinguish dangerous drugs from other drugs, even if their implications for driving are clearly indicated on the cartons. Moreover, the concept of dangerous drugs is also imprecise from a legal point of view. Finally, there is currently no device for detecting the use of one molecule rather than another. The introduction of such a device would be extremely complex, as there would be a large number of molecules to look for. For all these reasons, this amendment could not be put into practice. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u348	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor to support Amendment No. 2919.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u349	It tends to classify driving after the use of Level 3 drugs as offences, which is currently the case with driving under the influence of narcotics. We know very well that one is as dangerous as the other. I think it is important to take this subject very seriously if we are to limit the number of people who are dying on our roads. I would like to refer again to the Millas accident, which cost the lives of six college students. Unfortunately, the driver had taken Imovane, a hypnotic medication for insomnia, which reduced her vigilance and led her to brake 90 seconds later than she should have done. The other day, we dealt with the case of level crossings by requiring mayors not to build near them. In this case, I propose that you classify driving after the use of Level 3 drugs as offences. It would be regrettable if we did not send this positive signal. The case of the Millas accident should not be settled only by means of urban planning tools.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u350	Mrs Laurence Gayte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u351	I'd like to go back to the Millas accident. I have read the report of the Land Transportation Accident Investigation Board. Moreover, the trial did not take place. I think it is very delicate to say here in the Chamber that it was the taking of medicine that caused the accident; We have absolutely no proof of this. We don't know what happened, and it's not possible to say it here, even before justice has determined it. The trial must take place; We have to wait for the court decision. This cannot be said in this House: "In my opinion, this is what has happened". On the other hand, I have indeed asked that local and regional authorities be given a little more responsibility so that they take into account the dangerousness of the crossings, and I will explain why. It should be borne in mind that the planners – that is, the territorial community concerned – did not take the opinion of SNCF into account at all when the college was built. This view was negative because the location chosen for the college was not relevant: it required families in four of the five communes in which the school recruits its students to cross the crossing every day. It is time to integrate the dangerousness of level crossings into urban planning. But yes, dear colleague, I do not agree with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u352	I have the right to shake my head, don't I?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u353	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u354	I answer you, dear colleague, by taking a very concrete example, that of Nemours – of which I was mayor – and Saint-Pierre-les-Nemours. These two municipalities are adjacent, separated by a crossing considered one of the most dangerous in Ile-de-France and the removal of which would cost 35 million euros; We have been waiting for thirty years for the authorities to accompany us in carrying out this operation. Every day, however, dozens and dozens of college students cross this crossing, since there are on one side, at Nemours, two colleges and one high school, and on the other, at Saint-Pierre-lès-Nemours, two colleges. If I may, I find it a little bit of coffee to empower communities without empowering drivers. However, it is a shame not to send a strong signal to those of our fellow citizens who, unfortunately, are obliged to take Level 3 medicines – I am not making any judgment on this; These drugs are useful – by telling them that driving after taking these drugs is an offence. I may have been a little annoyed, because we're questioning communities. I gave a very specific example. I invite you to come to my constituency, dear colleague: you will see what happens on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u355	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u356	For all the reasons stated above, it is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u357	Mr Fabrice Brun's Amendment No 428 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u358	Amendment No 2103 by Mrs Zivka Park is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u359	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u360	One word: I find it regrettable that we have spoken for several hours about the passage of the maximum permissible speed of 90 to 80 kilometres per hour – I see Mr Barbe, with whom we have exchanged a great deal on this subject – and that no sign of opening has been sent on the various amendments that I have defended this morning. I believe that the families of victims will be attentive to the answers that have been given to these same amendments. I hope in any case that they will be considered as appeal amendments, that they will be brought to the attention of the National Road Safety Council – of which I am a member and which has not been convened for months! – and they will find, at some point or another, a certain echo. [[Ms. Émilie Bonnivard applauds]] I sincerely believe that we need to send a strong signal on these issues – we are sometimes the first to use our mobile phone while driving – and that we need to adjust to the changing behaviour of motorists. I find it regrettable for the families of victims that none of these amendments have been accepted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u361	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u362	Lacroute, I would like to inform you that the National Road Safety Council will meet in July. Discussions can therefore continue in this context.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u363	Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u364	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-14-O1273.u365	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the mobility policy bill. The meeting is adjourned.
