ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u1	The vote on the Government's declaration on the draft stability programme for 2019-2022, pursuant to article 50-1 of the Constitution, took place at the end of the afternoon. The result is as follows: Number of voters 532 Number of votes cast 515 Absolute majority of votes cast 258 For approval 334 Against 181 The National Assembly approved the Government's statement on the draft stability programme for 2019-2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u2	The next item is a debate on the social impact of work orders. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then conduct a question-and-answer session. First of all, Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u3	Here we are a few hours from May 1st, Workers' Day, a protest party that first grew up around the regulation of working time and especially the eight-hour day. Last week we celebrated the hundredth anniversary of this great social victory acquired from high struggle, in the blood itself, and in the face of repression. Tomorrow we will live the hundredth edition of May 1 as a paid day off, and we will take advantage of it to blow the hundred candles of the International Labour Organization, the ILO. At the end of the butchery of the First World War, which came to hinder the conquests of the workers' movement, but had not extinguished its hope, while the young workers had perished in mass on the front and the women had taken a new place in paid work, these decisions were necessary. It was the meaning of history. But it took huge battles to get there. So tonight, I remember. I know that a century has passed, and yet, in this deeply transformed society, constants appear. The battle for social progress, the battle of the world of work in the face of the domination of the capital camp, still requires powerful mobilizations. For after the time of the victories, there was the time of the retreats, the time of the refluxs; And now we are terrified to hear again this old resurgence of the increase in working time, which came to serve this battery of prescriptions. So tonight I am thinking of all those who, like so many others before them, will be demonstrating tomorrow in the cities of our country and all over the world. They will not do it by folklore, but with in their heads this perfume of muguet and freedom. They will do so to resist, but also to carry their dreams in public place. Since September 16, 2018, eighteen months ago, we have been working under your orders, Madam Minister of Labour. With these ordinances, you showed the child's intention to strengthen social dialogue. This was the first gesture of your majority, our first big blow of anger too: the entry into the quinquennium was a frontal attack on the Labour Code, and you were acting by short-circuiting the newly elected National Assembly and the entire Parliament. How can we not see it as the trademark of a policy that has put the country upside down? How can we not see it as the seal of a policy in favour of the powerful by weakening the law? How can it not be seen as an illustration of a class struggle waged consistently at the expense of employees and their working conditions? You have been heard, Madam Minister, explain that the freedom of the strongest protects all those related to him, as well as his greed would benefit them... You have been heard to promise that facilitating dismissals will reduce unemployment. You have been told that reducing the number of staff representatives and bypassing trade union organisations would improve social dialogue. You have been told that occupational health will not be affected by the removal of a dedicated autonomous body, the health, safety and working conditions committees – CHSCT. You were heard to claim that you "freed" – or rather liberalized – but that you would then be seen to be protected. But we didn't see anything coming. So the truth is before us, naked and raw. You attacked the labor code with the axe. You have weakened the set of standards, subjecting them to discussion and therefore to questioning. So you opened the gates to social dumping, you unbridled it within our country. Finally, you think that the best standard is the one that is written over the water, and that the less public power, through the law, interferes with setting the framework, the closer we get to the best of the worlds. We are therefore curious to hear your assessment of these choices, 18 months later – curious, but without illusions, because the ability of the President of the Republic to challenge it a few days ago seems to us to set a very limited framework for the Government in this matter. What findings can be made? Unemployment has not started a significant decline, nor has precariousness ceased to grow. The work is no better. Malwork, suffering at work, exposure to risks, and penitibility are far from falling back. Wages and purchasing power of employees do not see any improvement and your tricks of passing down gross wages and social protection only blacken the picture. Social dialogue has not experienced the promised quality gain, unless judged by the regressions recorded, sometimes agreed in a complicated balance of power and asymmetrical relations. On the other hand, the rights of employees and their working conditions, such as their place in company decisions, are becoming increasingly unequal from one company to another and from one branch to another; They are experiencing new setbacks. Let's take these prescriptions one by one. The first order was to strengthen collective bargaining. In fact, it was a matter of giving primacy in a large number of areas to corporate bargaining and then to branch bargaining, and of weakening on the one hand the scope of the legislative norm and on the other hand the scope of the employment contract. A modest number of agreements have been concluded in the SME-ETs. We would like to have qualitative elements to judge, but have these general changes in employment contracts been made without hindrance for the employees concerned? What you call milling grain is actually rights and conditions of work and remuneration to be crushed. With regard to branch agreements, only one has taken up the new provisions, and to increase the precarisation in its sector. The second order was intended to reorganize staff representative bodies and, allegedly, to promote the exercise of trade union activities. As a result, 24,000 mandates were filled compared to 36,000 previously, a decrease of one third. According to France Stratégie's estimates, the reduction is, according to companies, from 30 to 50%. There is a distance and a tightening, criticized by the trade unions. The company council, going even further, did not seduce. The removal of CHSCT results in a reduction in the resources available for health, safety and working conditions. We risk paying the high price. The third order sought to secure labour relations. There has been a further significant decline in litigation before the labour courts, which is not a sign of an improvement, but of a higher non-use of justice and thus of a greater difficulty in asserting its rights. Today there is a revolt of the councils of prud'hommes who refer to the ILO texts to question the baremization of unfair and illegal dismissals. You must hear this protest that arises from the concrete examination of cases, and from the expertise of the prud'hommes. You've facilitated economic layoffs and layoffs. You have put in place the collective conventional break, organized circumvention of social plans and the obligations they impose on companies towards employees. Sixty-six companies used it, including major brands, including banks and firms in the automotive and computer industries. The last order goes back to the recognition of penitibility, one of the few positive aspects of the labour law, by simplifying the obligations of companies. The chemical risk, in particular, has caused the cost; We won a report on the subject, which was given to you by Professor Frimat. But he stayed for the time being dead letter. After that, one can always boast the value of work. No one doubts the value of the work. Madam Minister, you have even said this afternoon, once it is not customary, that the wealth of a nation comes from the volume of work. Still, it would be necessary to draw all the consequences of this maxim, recognize the work and treat it as it deserves. Your approach is unambiguous: you want to lower the pay for work, increase the working time, precarise employees to facilitate the lives of employers, mobilize the labour force without being too hard on the human consequences, weaken the union forces of employees, encourage social dumping, exempt companies – and especially the largest ones – from their responsibilities in the battle of purchasing power by saving them from the dividends and the distribution of value. With such expectations, we cannot achieve good results. The liberal forward flight into which you rush the country is dangerous, and in many ways unbearable. We are at the heart of the social issue, which is at the heart of debate and mobilization in our country. That is why we ask you to look in front of these ordinances and their results. Your political responsibility is to hear this profound protest, which will again resonate on May 1st to call for other social dynamics, another conception of work, respect for the dignity of women and men who make wealth and who want to share it. And if you listen a little, you will hear this old poem by Jacques Charpentreau: "Our sorrow is made the world, With our hands we built it, It is through us that the forge rumbles, Let the wood sing and the steel shine. So much remains to be done But we'll blow tomorrow. Workers, my friends, my brothers, A new world with our hands. » [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches]] This poem, and a few others, but also more contemporary words, may remind you of the urgency of working for justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u4	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u5	France of 2019 is no longer France of 1945. The circumstances that led to the advent of our social model have changed. The transition of our society raises many questions; In particular, developments in the labour market call into question the classic wage framework and, more broadly, the French social model to which we are all so attached. When he came to power, President Emmanuel Macron seemed to have grasped the need to take these developments into account and to update this model. With the Government, and with you in the first place, Madam Minister, he had embarked on a major project: the reform of our labour code. In a social context where the intermediate bodies are becoming increasingly weak and where the figure of the individual is rising in power, we must review our way of dialogue and negotiation. The Government had understood this well by making the strengthening of social dialogue one of its priorities. But what irony when to proceed by ordinances on such a subject! Parliamentary consultation has been shrewd, and it must be recognized. Choosing prescriptions, on the pretext of urgency, was not the wisest choice – and we did not know at the time that it would unfortunately become a bad habit. While we cannot go back to form, we are now given the opportunity to take stock of these ordinances for the strengthening of social dialogue. On the eve of May 1st, Labour Day, the opportunity seems to me to be well found. Some of these measures were necessary for businesses, which were waiting for them. To respond to persistent unemployment, our labour market needed more flexibility – without endangering security. It was also necessary for our Labour Code to accompany developments in employment, supervise and secure new practices. Some progress should therefore be welcomed. I am thinking, for example, of the introduction of new rights for employees corresponding to certain aspirations: this is the case with telework. The increase in the statutory redundancy benefit from 25 per cent to 10 years of seniority was also necessary. With regard to the social dialogue aimed at encouraging companies and employees to negotiate, which is at the heart of the enabling bill, the assessment is half-hearted. These orders were supposed in theory to benefit each of the players, in particular the TPEs and SMEs. It should be noted that in 96% of the TPEs, there are no unions. It was therefore urgent to provide our small businesses with the means to foster dialogue within them. However, it must be noted that companies are struggling to seize the opportunities made possible by the ordinances. I am thinking, among other things, of the merger of staff representative bodies into a single body, the Social and Economic Committee – SSC. This measure was interesting, if only because it removed the threshold effects. Indeed, some companies preferred not to hire, rather than to exceed a threshold that imposed on them the creation of bodies. However, by the end of 2018, only 10500 companies had set up a SSC. While they have until December 31, 2019 to do so, they do not seem to be in a hurry to do so. Perhaps we can be more optimistic about signing collective performance agreements. At the end of 2018, 20 agreements were signed in companies with more than 250 employees, 23 in SMEs and 4 in companies with less than 11 employees. Just over 400 texts were also validated by referendum in companies with fewer than 10 employees. But the themes are limited: it is almost exclusively about working time. I do not have enough time to deal with all the measures in the work orders, but since it was above all a question of strengthening social dialogue, I will conclude on the need for companies and employees alike to seize their new rights. One year after the implementation of this reform, Madam Minister, what are you proposing so that everyone can benefit from it? Beyond the figures, it is a cultural change within companies that must be accompanied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u6	Mr Laurent Pietraszewski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u7	We are meeting this evening at the initiative of our fellow Members of the GDR Group to discuss the "social balance sheet of work orders" – or, to be accurate and consistent under the law, "orders to strengthen social dialogue". I would therefore like to begin by thanking the initiators of this debate, which enable us to highlight the recasting and decentralization of the social dialogue in this law. Since we came to the responsibilities, in June 2017, we have made the bet of social dialogue, a renewed, pragmatic social dialogue, far from the fantasies of the big evening, which may satisfy some theorists but which do not meet the expectations of employees or employers. In view of the time allocated to me this evening, I shall mention only a few points, but, as you know, we are responsible, together with my colleague Boris Vallaud, for drawing up a report on the implementation of the ordinances, a report which, I am sure, will be exhaustive. I therefore propose to share with you an initial analysis of the means given to the social partners to adapt the organisation of the company to its economic context: collective contractual breaks – RCC – and collective performance agreements. What have we not heard about collective conventional breakdowns: it would not work, never would the trade union organisations seize such a tool! Eighteen months later, however, as of March 31, 2019, 121 companies have engaged in the negotiation of an RCC agreement, 78 agreements have been validated by the regional directorates of companies, competition, consumption, labour and employment – DIRECCTE –, 5 agreements signed are under investigation for validation, 19 negotiations are under way and 17 companies have abandoned their RCC project due to the lack of willingness of the trade union organisations to conclude an agreement. This is concrete evidence that without a majority agreement, there is no CCR. There is therefore no need for concern: social dialogue works. While the DIRECCTE initially refused to validate five CCR agreements, three of these agreements resulted, in a second step, in a favourable decision. Everyone is therefore in their place: the social partners negotiate and the public authorities accompany them. In addition, there is only one case to report with, in the end, a court decision in favour of the administration. I now want to address collective performance agreements, a tool also put in place by the ordinances. These PCAs – sometimes also known as APCOs – can be negotiated and concluded as long as they meet the needs of the operation of the company with a view to preserving or developing employment. They make it possible to adjust the working hours, its organisation or distribution arrangements, to adapt the remuneration, to determine the conditions of occupational or geographical mobility within the undertaking. The purpose of these APCs can be defensive, to respond to economic difficulties, or offensive, to develop the growth of the company. What do we see, 18 months after the implementation of the ordinances for the strengthening of social dialogue? That the Cassandres, the professionals of discontent, once again, were wrong, because the social partners took advantage of this innovative tool, the PCA. Thus, as of 1 April 2019, 142 agreements have already been negotiated and signed, whereas under previous legislatures, the arrangements with the same purposes but scattered, had led to only a few agreements. The enterprises that have used an APC are of all sizes: 43 have more than 250 employees; 88 are SMEs; 11 have fewer than 11 employees. The vast majority of PCAs are signed by union delegates, staff delegates or representatives of the SSC: 65% of agreements are signed unanimously. Only 11 agreements were adopted by referendum. Finally, I would like to conclude my remarks with a few words on observatories, which have been discussed at length in our discussions. The Observatory aims to encourage and facilitate social dialogue and collective bargaining in companies with fewer than 50 employees. In January 2019, 97 observatories were installed, 95 of them in metropolitan France and 2 overseas. In addition to this first purely quantitative assessment, there are qualitative aspects, as we have seen with Boris Vallaud. Of course, everything is perfect. I realize that the perimeter of the branch remains to be invested. The grouping process took time. The one who was assigned flows. It remains for companies to seize the perimeters and negotiating territories that we have opened for them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Through these ordinances, our majority wanted to drive a profound cultural change. Our reformist will is undoubtedly bearing fruit, as evidenced by the increase in the number of open-ended contracts – CDI – by 5% in the first quarter of 2019. That is why, through this factual analysis of the developments observed, we can be proud to have implemented the greatest reform of the social dialogue since the Auroux laws of 1982.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u8	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u9	The GDR Group has decided to include in our agenda a debate on the social assessment of work orders on this week's agenda, on the eve of workday. First of all, let me tell you that it is early to take stock of this reform. There must be time for actors to take ownership of such important changes as those undertaken under these orders. This translates into, for example, the observed slowdown in professional elections in 2018. We are used to wanting to take stock quickly, and to amend the legislation even before we have been able to put in place and evaluate the previous reform. Thus, the El Khomri reform had not been fully implemented and it had been amended. As such, we can only regret that the President of the Republic has decided to change the tax environment of companies once again. After holding a pro-business speech during the presidential campaign, after transforming the tax credit for competitiveness and employment – CICE – into a drop in expenses, Emmanuel Macron will make companies pay by removing certain tax niches. This subject is not anecdotal, nor is it foreign to the question we are addressing tonight. Indeed, the philosophy behind labour orders was to restore freedom and breath to businesses in order to recreate employment. If the advances to which these orders have led are obeyed by counter-current tax decisions, then only the negative effects of the orders will be felt. However, the situation is alarming. France suffers from a structural unemployment rate of 8.8%, which, although declining, remains very high and difficult to reduce on a sustainable basis. Unfortunately, we are in fourth place among the countries with the highest unemployment rate in Europe, after Greece, Spain and Italy. Sad reality, while 17 countries have an unemployment rate of less than 5 per cent, i.e. full employment. The President of the Republic considers that full employment will be achieved in our country in 2022, with an unemployment rate of 7 per cent. This objective, which is neither proactive nor ambitious, also does not correspond to full employment. One of the emblematic measures of the reform of the labour code by these ordinances is the renewal of the social dialogue, and in particular the creation of the social and economic committee, which results from the merger of three representative bodies: works council, health, safety and working conditions committee and staff delegates. As of November 2018, 10500 companies have put in place a SSC. Most must do so in 2019, proof of the difficulty of reform being implemented. As Jean-François Pilliard points out in his report, companies and employee representatives have chosen to move forward cautiously and to take ownership of the tools before embarking on the implementation of such a reform. In the vast majority of cases, there is also a minimal adaptation of employee representative bodies. Few changes after a global reflection, rather a continuation of previous practices adapted to the new framework. Moreover, this reform poses a risk of centralisation of the social and economic subjects to be dealt with, induced by the SSC, which could lead to greater formalism. One of the reasons for this delay is also the lack of knowledge of the provisions. According to a survey conducted in June 2018, the measures relating to the establishment of the SSC were known only by 47% of managers of companies with less than 300 employees and 39% of staff representatives. When the Government embarked on such reforms, it was essential that the State should better support actors on the ground, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which often lacked human resources leadership. Xavier Bertrand stressed in this regard the need to establish a "post-vote service". We may wonder if all companies will be able to set up a CSE before the end of 2019, in accordance with the law. The subject best identified by the actors remains that of the prud'homale reform and of the scale, many of which prud'homaux councils refuse to apply, and free themselves from it. This measure, however, had to secure employers and restore their confidence in hiring. However, with regard to individual dismissals, the number of applications filed with the labour councils was divided by two in 20 years – 120000 in 2014 compared to 240000 in 1998. This decrease is mainly due to the introduction of the individual conventional break in 2008 and the procedural changes introduced in 2016. Since 2017 and the introduction of the scheme of compensation for unfair dismissal, there has been no decrease in litigation, both on the number of appeals and on their grounds. Another important measure concerns collective conventional breakdowns – RCC. In both the private sector and the public, we must remain vigilant so that the CCBs are not concluded at the expense of employment protection plans, even if the number of these falls, which we can rejoice at. In terms of collective bargaining, 500 agreements were ratified by referendum in companies with 1 to 20 employees in October 2018. The vast majority of them deal with issues relating to working time. Other topics should be mentioned, such as the referendum in the TPEs or posted workers. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Minister, the work orders have shown their interest in businesses, and we can only welcome them. However, they do not provide a solution to the problem of employment, of which you know as I do, that it is the first concern of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u10	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u11	In the summer of 2017, we debated the enabling bill to be made by ordinances for measures to strengthen social dialogue. These orders, ratified and signed in September 2017, were the first step in a major overhaul of the labour market, the labour code and the company's internal ecosystem. The aim of the reform was to bring social performance and economic performance together, taking into account the diversity of employee expectations and the needs of enterprises. After a long period of negotiation with the trade unions, the Government has set the stage for a renovation of the social dialogue within the company through several ordinances. The purpose of the agreements was to define a new articulation of the company agreement and the branch agreement, while extending the scope of collective bargaining in a secure manner; simplify and strengthen economic and social dialogue, in particular through the transformation of staff representative institutions; make the rules governing the employment relationship more predictable and secure for both employers and employees. It is therefore a whole section of the Labour Code relating to collective bargaining that has been amended by these ordinances by establishing a new scope for the negotiation of branch and company agreements and by defining new modalities for the negotiation and validation of agreements. The MODEM Group fully supported this social project, the aim of which was to achieve a better recognition of each other's particular situation and a better contribution by all to new societal balances. By facilitating business agreements, we recognized workers in their diversity, we came out of the uniformity that ignored the peculiarity of an economic sector or the specificity of a territory. This reform was intended to create more flexibility and movement while maintaining a secure legal basis. Thus, the branch has been maintained because in some sectors it is well at its level and not at the level of the enterprise that economic efficiency and social justice can best be combined. We have given all companies the freedom to sign agreements that take into account their size, their representational capacity and different modalities of dialogue, as well as to remove blockages by using the democratic vote of all employees. The purpose of the Act was to guarantee fundamental rights and the common framework in order to honour the republican promise as well as the obligation to combat all forms of discontent or social dumping. The second part of this reform was aimed at developing a social dialogue that broke with the logic of the confrontation in which everyone was encamped on their postures, often far removed from the concrete experience of companies. We wanted to strengthen the role of employee and employer representatives in moving from a conflict logic to a bargaining logic to agreements whereby each takes one step towards the other. More than 18 months after these orders were signed, our group is particularly attentive to the first concrete results in this vast project. Minister, what first indications can you give us about agreements in new forms? Do you have any figures on the collective performance agreements that have been introduced by this reform? The MODEM Group is particularly committed to TPEs and SMEs, which make up the vast majority of the French entrepreneurial fabric. Indeed, 96.5% of our companies employ less than 20 employees. However, in 2016, the collective bargaining rate in the TPEs was only 23%. One of the main axes of the ordinances was precisely to give priority to such structures. Can you outline an assessment of the appropriation by the TPEs of the new provisions of the ordinances? I am thinking, for example, of the possibility for companies with less than 20 employees, who do not have elected staff, to negotiate with employees on all matters and to validate it by simple consultation by a two-thirds majority. Can you cite concrete examples of negotiations within the TPEs on these new bases that have combined economic performance with social performance? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] More than 18 months after these ordinances and almost a year after the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future, the MODEM group stands by your side to succeed in regaining a sustainable growth of employment and finally stem unemployment whose rate is still too high in our country. We must continue collectively to do everything we can to profoundly and structurally renew our social model and to restore the confidence that is so lacking in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u12	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u13	Last night, while my colleague Laurent Pietraszewski and I were finishing the first hearings of workers' unions in the framework of the implementation report on the work orders we are in charge of, what was not my surprise to read on the screen of my phone the following notification: "the reform of the labour code is beginning to bear fruit". These words, Minister, are yours, and they are the opposite of what the unions told us yesterday. Where you congratulate yourself on the enforcement of the ordinances, the unions, they, shoot with red balls. I am thinking of social dialogue and the creation of social and economic committees. First of all, let me find it strange that you are flirting with the application of a legal obligation – that is the least – especially since it is painful: you are talking about 12,000 CSEs, less than 20% of the target. And what about corporate councils? It was created only three, it's a flop. The unions speak of a very modest result, deplore bad agreements and denounce a one-third decrease in the number of elected representatives in these SSCs compared to previous representative bodies. They point the finger at the very many companies that take advantage of it to reduce, sometimes drastically, the resources allocated to trade unions. To the question whether this law, as its title indicates, strengthened social dialogue, they answered without a doubt no. I am also thinking of the subjects that are annoying, those that you carefully avoid talking about publicly. This is the case with the abolition of CHSCT, which leads to neglecting the crucial issue of working conditions. The actors concerned regret this disappearance and are concerned about the consequences for health and safety at work. This is also the case, and the press has largely echoed this, of the failure of the scale imposed on the council of workers, which introduces a right to unfair dismissal and insecures both employees and companies. Already three advices of prud'hommes refuse to apply it. And the drifts we've detected are already at work, as the demands move towards other reasons, such as harassment, to circumvent the scale. This is still the case with the removal of the penitential prevention account from which you preferred an account that returns us fifteen years back and does not, in truth, prevent much more. Finally, this is the case of abandoning the priority given to trade unions in small businesses to negotiate, which undermines the social dialogue, where you claimed to strengthen it, and the quality of the agreements when they are concluded. Perhaps this parliamentary debate and this series of hearings which begin in the House and which, I hope, will lead to a clear and objective report, they lead you, in haste, to promote your orders, while all the actors criticise and denounce them. It is only a communication operation, a counterfire to try to mask the failure of the big bang that you announced, a failure that was yet to be foreseen so much this reform was made regardless of the actors supposed to apply it. Minister, I read that you are pleased with the proper functioning of collective bargaining breaks and collective performance agreements. I would remind those who are probably very numerous, who are looking at us at this moment, the first one allows the employer to exempt himself from his reclassification obligations, while the second one makes it easier to dismiss. Let me tell you that we have never seen a minister in charge of labour before welcoming the fact that redundancies are working effectively! But since your text did not provide any new security or protection for employees, no new rights, what else would you like to congratulate yourself on? The CDI of construction sites which were supposed to revolutionize the lives of precarious employees but which do not give rise to the payment of a precarious allowance? How many have been concluded? Of your telework measures which the social partners tell us are a danger to employees? The territorial public service of access to the law and a digital version of the Labour Code, which we still expect to achieve in practice? Colleagues, there are many questions, well-founded concerns and multiple risks. A year and a half ago, you towed us, locked us in your certitudes, telling us to trust you. Eighteen months later, on the eve of the May 1 mobilisation, who can still have confidence? Is it not time to hear popular anger and, above all, to listen to the actors on the ground, the unions to which you proclaim daily your trust and love, which repeat to you, as I am doing, that the flexibility that you introduce everywhere in society deepens inequalities, precautions employment and undermines the value of work that is so dear to you? A union employee representative told us yesterday about a representative of the employer: "You had 1982, we have 2017". Madam Minister, on several occasions you have claimed your filiation with the Delors laws. Then hear the words of the latter: "We often hear that social partnership and social dialogue will be outmoded. I protest against such theories. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u14	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u15	What is the contribution of the provisions introduced by labour orders, adopted at the beginning of the quinquennium, to economic dynamism and job creation? Indeniably, the ordinances have provided solutions to problems that have arisen in companies for many years, overly complicating their functioning or hindering their development. That is why, in its majority, our group authorized the government to legislate, in accordance with the provisions of section 38 of our Constitution, and then ratified these ordinances. However, these solutions must then be used and the social partners must take advantage of the new tools available to them, particularly in the context of the social dialogue within the company. For the time being, however, it is clear that this process is only just beginning and that the new provisions raise questions in companies, both among employers and among employees. This is the case, for example, of the ceiling on compensation granted by the boards of workers in the event of unfair dismissal. If our group had approved the objective that the amount of compensation should be more predictable for the company, we had regretted the limits placed on the assessment of Judge Prud'homal and pointed out the risks of circumvention of the scale. That is precisely what we are witnessing at the moment: applications in support of appeals have a multitude of reasons. In addition, the successive decisions of the Conseils de Prud'hommes de Troyes, d'Amiens, and de Lyon call into question the very application of the scale, leaving the uncertainty as to which decisions will be taken on appeal, then, if necessary, by the Cour de Cassation. That was predictable and we are still far from the legal certainty promised by the reform. Similar uncertainties also surround the progressive installation of SSCs. Again, we have joined and still adhere to the need to simplify the organisation of staff representative institutions. However, we insisted on the need for special vigilance with regard to the effective exercise of duties relating to the safety of working conditions. However, several cases have been reported to us from companies in which the expertise acquired by CHSCT elected officials is likely to be lacking as a result of the reduction in the number of representatives to the SSC. Because occupational health and safety is a major issue for prevention within the company, we call on the Government to address the effective monitoring of these issues by the SSCs. I take this opportunity to regret that you did not take the opportunity of these orders to address the raising of social thresholds, particularly 10 and 50 employees. However, our group had made proposals to that effect. It will have taken the PACTE law – an action plan for business growth and transformation – which has just been adopted, for this subject to be finally discussed, although it has been very timid. We have wasted unnecessary time, without the Government going to the end of the reasoning by deciding on significant increases. Finally, the vagueness concerns the collective conventional break-up. Last September, your department's figures indicated sixty-six procedures, eleven of which had failed, in an understandable way, since the situation of the companies concerned was more of a job-saving plan. While these cases confirm the guarantees surrounding this new procedure – the requirement for a prior majority collective agreement, the involvement of the SSC and the control of the DIRECCTE – the regional direction of companies, competition, consumption, work and employment – they also reveal that vigilance is required. The challenge remains the quality of employee support, as a collective break must be an opportunity for retraining and a career path, which is far from guaranteed. This is probably the current pitfall of labour orders: they had to fit into a global set; With the reform of vocational training, they should form the basis of a flexicurity system which is finally clearly defined. In such a system, the natural flexibility that a company must benefit from in order to develop on its market corresponds to the legitimate security enjoyed by the employee in order to find a job. To date, however, flexibility that destabilizes is more perceived than the accompaniment that secures. However, these two terms, flexibility and security, are essential to the labour market reform equation. From this point of view, steps still need to be taken, quickly, to give this reform real effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u16	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u17	I will begin by thanking the GDR Group for taking the initiative in this debate, which allows us, on the eve of May 1st, International Workers' Day, to draw up an initial assessment of your work orders, Minister. These ordinances were the first stone laid by Emmanuel Macron after his arrival in power. Or rather, since we are talking about a stone, it was a blow to employees and to the labour code. You then told us that you wanted to "improve social dialogue" and "facilitate layoffs to encourage hiring." You summed this up with a formula, which is now too famous: "liberating energies". For our part, we told you that the labour code had never been a brake on hiring. The employers themselves did not put this point forward when questioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u18	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u19	Instead, 28 per cent of them were concerned with economic issues, including the issue of order books. Despite our warnings and the alternative proposals that we have put forward with the concern – which is probably also yours – to relaunch employment and activity in our country, you have removed the CHSCT, that is, the delegated expertise on safety and working conditions. By introducing the baremisation of damages, even if this measure has been challenged by several courts, you have deterred many employees from seizing the workers: the number of appeals has decreased by 5.5% in one year. You have developed precarious employment with the CDI at work – which is more from the yard than from the CDI, it must be said – and the collective contractual breakdowns, a mechanism that allows precisely to circumvent the rights enjoyed by employees in the context of an economic dismissal. I also invite those who hear or hear this speech to consult the web site docpenicaud.fr, whose slogan is: "Smile, you are fired! » It was carried out by Discord Insoumis, which is responsible for establishing a precise mapping of collective conventional breakdowns. Among the redundancies carried out in this way are, for example, 2135 job deletions at Société Générale, 1300 at PSA, 700 at Sanofi. In short, the energies do seem to be liberated! Given what your prescriptions cause, it is useful to recall the objective you claimed to achieve with them: to revive employment in our country... But the employment situation in France is catastrophic – perhaps we can share this sad diagnosis. There are 48,000 offers without a candidate for 5.6 million people registered at the job centre and available – which means that they are neither in training nor in training – i.e. 1 offer without a candidate for 100 people available and, no doubt, ready to cross the street. In 2017, 25.5 million people were hired. You'll tell me that we've never been as hired as we are today, and that's right: it's almost twice as much as it was in the early 2000s. But at what cost? Of these 25 million contracts, 17 million are CSDs of less than one month. There is therefore a shortage of employment in our country. But you are pursuing the policy of precarisation of employment, on the one hand, and of tax and social exemption, on the other hand, carried out by those who preceded you. This diptych is not new, and it still doesn't work. Therefore, we will continue to present you with further proposals. Last Thursday, the President of the Republic began by telling us that the French were working less than their neighbours. The demonstration is now that this is not the case: working time is higher in France than in many of its neighbours, especially the one to which you like to compare it regularly, Germany. Looking at the 35-hour record, 350,000 direct jobs created, the decline in working time is not only more efficient, but also less costly than your policy of creating activity. Given the number of jobs created or maintained through the CICE, a "CICE job" is worth around €160,000 of public expenditure, which is very expensive and above our means. I think we can do better. Why not admit that the decline in working time, in life or in the week, is more effective in terms of job creation? Above all, why not generalize schemes such as "the State, the employer of last resort"? The aim is to transform the unemployment benefit into a wage paying for work, which is also supplemented. ATD Quart Monde has started experimenting with this device in several parts of the country. In the speech of the President of the Republic, very little was said about ecology. We believe that the ecological challenge today is such that we need to rethink the entire production model, reindustrialize the country with this ecological objective, or even found new industries, which would create far more jobs and probably make more sense than to pursue this absurd competition through precarization. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Your conclusion to the popular protest movement we've known for five months is: "Work more! So I don't think you've understood much as we live. In conclusion, allow me to wish, from this rostrum, all the workers of our country, a 1 May struggle.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u20	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u21	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREMet UDI-Agir groups]] First of all, I would like to thank the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for placing this debate on the agenda of this week's monitoring. On the eve of 1 May, I think that we can all wish the staff of the meeting service that this debate should not go beyond 1 May, each one in line with its own convictions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u23	This debate allows me to share with the national representation the encouraging results of the first profound transformation that we have carried out, in accordance with the campaign commitment of the President of the Republic. This commitment was to create the conditions for a structured, readable and decentralized social dialogue in companies and industries, providing greater agility and security for both employers and employees and their representatives. This commitment was to create a balanced framework in which responsible and more trained actors would be better equipped to look ahead with confidence, as they would finally have the tools to converge social performance and economic performance. This is precisely what the ordinances of 22 September 2017 allowed for the strengthening of social dialogue. I would remind you that they were drawn up almost two years ago in an unprecedented way, since we have been closely involved in social democracy and political democracy. In this regard, I cannot allow Mr Favennec Becot to say that there has been no debate, because the examination of the enabling law and the ratification law have been an opportunity for exchanges provided to the National Assembly,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u24	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u25	... in liaison and correspondence with discussions with the social partners. As you know, I have entrusted to three qualified personalities, Ms. Sandrine Cazes, Mr. Marcel Grignard and Mr. Jean-François Pilliard, a mission to assess the quality of orders, which will continue for a while, with several stages. These three personalities are responsible for animating an evaluation committee to build an objective and shared evaluation with the social partners, the actors in the research world and all observers. What economic and social balance can we draw up, at this time, ordinances of 22 September 2017, a year and a half after their promulgation? How have the actors gradually adapted to this cultural revolution that we wanted, which we believe is indispensable for our country? What are its effects on our economy, particularly on the SME-EPTs, a priority target of these ordinances, I would point out, which was a first for a reform of the labour code? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Overall, it must be noted that the ordinances have helped to stimulate French growth and job creation. Indeed, a climate of trust was created, as I was able to see during my travels as part of the "post-vote service". I participated in about fifty meetings throughout France and met, in total, nearly 10,000 entrepreneurs. Now a sentence has come back everywhere: "Since the ordinances, we are no longer afraid to hire. In particular, they have had a tremendous impact on SMEs. Of course, this is not the only factor, but it was one of the factors that contributed to the already very positive results of our first two years of government. I would point out that employment has continued to grow, with 461000 net creations in two years, and that unemployment has increased from 9.7% to 8.8% since we got into business. Of course, that is not enough, we want to go far beyond it, but the momentum is clearly engaged. How can this dynamic be consolidated? Not only by resolutely tackling the lack of skills, which now becomes the main obstacle to hiring – it is the meaning of the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future, which you voted for, and the plan for investment in skills, which is funded by EUR 15 billion, and its territorial decline – but also by fighting the excessive use of precarious employment, particularly in the context of the forthcoming reform of unemployment insurance. Turning back to the debate on the ordinances that brings us together tonight, I would like to state here that a positive dynamic, both quantitative and qualitative, is being confirmed. The committed quantitative dynamics can be assessed through several objectivable elements. I will develop four of them here: the number of social and economic committees – SSCs – established; the number of collective conventional breaks – RCC – and collective performance agreements – APC – secured; conventional dynamics, especially in enterprises with fewer than 50 employees; the installation of departmental observatories for social dialogue. First, the SSCs are now 23700 as of March 31, 2019, compared to 12,000 as of December 31, 2018. It is very interesting to note that 65% of them were created in enterprises with less than 50 employees, knowing that our priority was to allow a social dialogue built in small and medium-sized enterprises. It's a real dynamic. As you can see, Mr Vallaud, now that the March figures are available, there is an acceleration, and we think it will continue throughout the year. Why? Because in many companies, managers and trade union organisations have taken the time to reflect on the most appropriate architecture: where to place local representatives? How to organize? At what level do you create instances? In the end, we trusted social dialogue, and we gave the actors on the ground the freedom to redefine that architecture.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u26	They're not happy, field actors!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u27	So there will probably be about 30,000 or more SSCs at the end of this year. Secondly, I come to the RCC agreements and to the APCs. It is already clear that the actors draw a very clear distinction between the CCB agreements and the employment protection plans – PSE. To answer your question, Mr Vercamer, there is no ambiguity in this matter. As of March 31, 2018, 120 companies have seized this new scheme and 78 agreements have been validated by the DIRECCTE. The sectors concerned are very varied. It is interesting to note, on the one hand, that 40% of the agreements have been concluded by SMEs and ITEs, on the other hand, that all unions sign CCB agreements. In the vast majority of cases – 80% – the agreements were signed by union delegates. In SMEs, they were also elected by non-mandated elected representatives, in accordance with the possibility opened by the ordinances. We note a similar dynamic for the PCAs, resulting from the consolidation of several mechanisms, which has improved legibility and legal security for the actors. There are 142 PCAs, which is ten times more than the competitiveness agreements created in the previous quinquennium. The share of SMEs is, again, very important, since 88 out of 142 agreements concern enterprises with less than 250 employees and 11 of them are small enterprises. In 88% of cases, the agreement was signed with one or more union delegates. In addition, 65 per cent of the agreements were signed unanimously, which shows that social dialogue is working on the ground. In practice, these agreements deal mainly with working time: 56 of them do. Secondly, 17 agreements deal with remuneration, 37 agreements deal with both the two subjects I have just mentioned and 29 agreements deal with geographical mobility issues. Third, conventional activity is seen to be dynamic in SMEs and TPEs. To answer Mrs de Vaucouleurs, I would point out that if the question of wage savings is the main lever of collective agreements – in 2018, 34,000 agreements were signed for this purpose and I have no doubt that, thanks to the PACTE law, this number will increase further – 4,700 agreements on another subject were signed in 2018 in companies with fewer than 50 employees, and nearly 1500 in those with fewer than 10 employees. We are witnessing the emergence of a new phenomenon: small and medium-sized enterprises take up this structured social dialogue in order to adapt to their situation, to bring about convergence of economic performance and social progress. This conventional activity covers 62% of working time and 24% of wages. The agreements have often been ratified by referendum, a possibility which companies have also seized: 1500 referendums for companies with less than 50 employees and 1100 for those with less than 10 employees. This is still an interesting and new element, as there was no referendum before. In 2019, the momentum is even stronger, which clearly shows the accelerator and amplifying effect of these provisions, since, since the beginning of the year, 1950 agreements have been signed in companies with fewer than 50 employees, of which 1030 have been ratified by referendum. In addition to working time, the most important issue is obviously the exceptional premium on purchasing power, which, as you know, has been a great success since it was paid to 2 million employees, for 1 billion euros. In 40% of cases, it was paid to SMEs. There is one point that we must have in mind: for any device, the registry, the cultural change made by the ordinances first took place in the TPEs, SMEs and ITEs, which were our priority target. I would like to highlight an important quantitative element for the stage we are taking today. It was mentioned by Mr Pietraszewski: these are the observatories of social dialogue. Despite their name, they do not have the sole role of drawing up an observation, but offer at departmental level support and advice to TPEs and SMEs on social dialogue. We can be satisfied because, although three overseas departments, Guyana, Guadeloupe and Mayotte, have not yet completed their social dialogue observatory, it has been installed in all metropolitan departments and the other overseas departments. With 414 employers' representatives and 500 trade union representatives, a new dynamic of support for social dialogue is emerging in SMEs. They are chaired by 40 per cent by employers' organisations and 60 per cent by trade union organisations. In addition to this statistical aspect, I stress the qualitative aspect and the undeniable strengthening of the social dialogue that is beginning. Mr. Cherpion mentioned earlier the fear of hiring: in this regard, there is a before and after ordinances. But they are not the only tool in the fight against mass unemployment, they are the cornerstone of it. The skills strategy is at the heart of our action against mass unemployment, and unemployment insurance will also contribute to it, in addition to our actions on business development and growth or taxation. This is illustrated by the negotiated introduction of SSCs. Thus, 5647 collective agreements were concluded in 2018 on employee representation, trade union rights and employee expression. Their purpose therefore exceeds that of the SSC itself, proof that many companies and social partners use this tool to broaden their scope of reflection and develop representation. Indeed, the social partners have real room for manoeuvre to adapt the SSC to the structure and social realities of the company. Mr Dharréville, I know your commitment to health at work. I share it and hope that we will all be around the next occupational health bill. Nevertheless, I know that we do not agree on one point. In my view, the fact that the articulation of economic guidelines, work organisation and health at work are the subject of joint discussions within the SSC raises health at work to the level of the company's strategic orientations. This is particularly true in terms of prevention. The SSC has fully taken over the responsibilities of the CHSCT. It is always based on the expertise of the Committee on Health, Safety and Working Conditions and on local representatives. I would point out that this committee is compulsory in all companies with more than 300 employees and in sectors at risk. The first analyses of agreements carried out by my ministry, as it stands, show that the actors are taking advantage of this possibility. I was told of the case of a company specializing in flooring, which does not belong to a sector at risk and has around 100 employees, but which nevertheless created this commission to support the work of the SSC. Many discussions are crystallized on the role of substitutes. Again, provisions allow each company to adapt the system. I stress that many agreements set up community commissions or community representatives to complement the scheme. Don't be displeased, Mr Vallaud, telework is very popular with employees. The creation of a right to telework has been a real success. There is a very strong negotiation momentum, with 2000 telework agreements signed since the issuance of the ordinances. Mr Dharréville, you mentioned the reduction in the number of mandates. Beyond the mission of accompanying the elected representatives and the mandate holders at the end of their term of office – real subject, which we follow qualitatively and on which we undertake actions – an important point is the recognition of the skills acquired by the employees during their trade union journey. Following the report by Jean-Dominique Simonpoli and Gilles Gateau on this subject, my ministry published in the Official Journal of 26 June 2018 two unpublished decrees aimed at finally creating a certification of the skills of staff representatives. All those who justify the exercise of a staff representative or a union appointment in the last five years may apply for this certification. The AFPA – National Agency for Adult Vocational Training – helps them write their professional files.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u28	The AFPA? Does it still exist?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u29	A draft decree in the process of finalisation will ensure that the paths of these employees are taken into account and recognised through certification, in conjunction with the company's skills development plan. It is time to recognize the value of trade union paths in companies as well. Mr Quatennens, you have referred to the scale of compensation for dismissal without real and serious cause, which aims to secure the two parties legally and to limit over time appeals which were very long and did not benefit anyone. You have cited a few recent decisions from the prud'hommes' councils. As a matter of principle, I do not comment on court decisions, out of respect for the separation of executive and judicial powers. I would point out, however, that these are first judgements, not final, since the Court of Cassation has not yet ruled, and these are only a few cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u30	They're multiplying, all the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u31	Above all, the Constitutional Council and the Council of State have accepted the scale in the light of all our constitutional norms. We are therefore in a certain legal serenity on this subject. I will conclude by recalling that my department's officers are carrying out a number of important actions to accompany the changes, as any cultural change takes time and support. Thanks to a partnership with the DIRECCTE and the observatory for analysis and support for social dialogue and the negotiation of Seine-Maritime, the Université de Rouen-Normandie offers a new degree in "practices of social dialogue and collective labour relations". Today, only 15% of management and human resources degrees speak of social dialogue, which is an aberration. We absolutely must make progress on this point. Together with the National Institute of Labour, Employment and Vocational Training, university professors also set up joint training courses. It is very important to train managers of human resources and trade union representatives in the social dialogue. The University of Montpellier's School of Social Law carried out with its students a qualitative analysis of the 900 agreements for the creation of a SSC signed at the beginning of the process. In addition, through the National Bar Council, the legal profession has devised a legal support service for questions that may arise. Finally, the National Agency for the Improvement of Working Conditions allows us to provide special support to SMEs and to disseminate good practice. With the ordinances, we had made the bet of collective intelligence as close to the ground as possible, to reconcile the requirements of competitiveness and social justice. We were betting that SMEs could and should be a place where social and economic dialogue would exist. We are only at the beginning of this cultural change, but I believe I can honestly say that the reform of the labour code is beginning to bear fruit. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It'll be even more true tomorrow. We must continue on this path, in the interests of both employees and businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u32	We come to the questions. I would remind you that the duration of questions such as answers is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u33	That is little to say that at this stage we do not share your point, Madam Minister, which calls for further debate. No doubt you saw me coming: I will ask you about health at work and, in a sense, about the work itself. It was one of the strong points of the debate, when examining the orders, and you felt, given the incandescence of the exchanges, that we would not be content with the measures presented. The removal of CHSCTs in particular is a serious and dangerous measure, since they are autonomous bodies and have the means, essential actors in the field of occupational health. Even if we guard against any unilateral vision of what work is, as it is experienced by women and men in our country, we see that we need actors to take care of it. You ask us to do an act of faith, by integrating into the new body a problem that will be part of the strategic elements of the company. For the time being, there is nothing to verify that this will indeed be the case. There is under-reporting and under-recognition of occupational diseases. The penitence is still there. Under the chairmanship of Julien Borowczyk, as you know, I led a committee of inquiry whose report I drafted, which contains proposals. Now we have to make decisions. What corrective measures are you considering? What vigorous action can be taken to promote occupational health? What leads do you plan to explore to move forward in this area and correct the shooting after the prescriptions?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u34	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u35	Your question goes beyond the scope of the prescriptions, as it relates to occupational health. I've already responded to the cases. I would point out, however, that the other European countries have only one body, such as the one we will now have, and that by putting health at the strategic level of economic issues, they are achieving far better results than our own in the field of occupational health, proof that the multiplicity of bodies is not enough to achieve results. Now, occupational health is a priority for us, including prevention. Indeed, France, which has historically focused heavily on reparation, is not really one of the most advanced countries in terms of preventing accidents at work and occupational diseases.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u36	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u37	All this is the subject of a report to which you have contributed a great deal. I also asked Professor Frimat for a study on the prevention and consideration of workers' exposure to hazardous chemicals. His contribution is very enlightening. Another essential report on occupational health was requested from Member of Parliament Charlotte Lecocq, Henri Forest and Bruno Dupuis. So many materials we will have the opportunity to talk about again. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We have done the right thing on the part of the bodies. Action remains to be taken to improve health at work, which is essential in two respects, as the lack of health at work has both social and economic costs. On this subject, we should be able to converge, at least I wish, because it is a beautiful object of social dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u38	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u39	Madam Minister, I would like to ask you about the cap on compensation for unfair dismissal, which was one of your government's flagship measures, with Order No. 3 on the predictability and security of labour relations. Over the past four months, more and more labour courts have refused to be limited in their role by the cap imposed by your labour orders. This was, for example, the case of Troyes on 13 December 2018, then of Amiens six days later, followed by Lyon, Grenoble, Agen and others. This perfume of revolt which rumbles on the prud'homie is based on the observation that this scale of allowances runs counter to France's international commitments. The 'Macron scale', if I may say so, is in fact a perfume of inconvention, in that it contravenes International Labour Organization Convention No 158 and the European Social Charter. You are aware, Madam Minister, that international law in this area provides that a national court must be able to order payment of appropriate compensation to the unfairly dismissed employee. I therefore have several questions to ask you on behalf of the Libertés et Territoires Group. First of all, how do you judge the distance that the homicidal courts are taking with this scale of compensation? Don't you fear a contagion effect that would eventually definitely undermine your device?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u40	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u41	Can you tell us what assessments you make, a year and a half after the introduction of this scale? How do you interpret the decline in the use of prud'hommes? Is this a positive sign of better labour relations or an illustration of more difficult access to the judge for employees and a loss of confidence in the labour justice system as you have shaped it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u42	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u43	As I said earlier, honourable Member, the scale of compensation for dismissal without real and serious cause reinforces the predictability of the consequences of the breakdown of the employment relationship. This is the purpose of this measure: to operate what I call legal security – we know what to stick to, we know the rules of the game – while maintaining the judge's ability to provide compensation for the damage suffered by the employee if he considers that the dismissal is not justified. I would also point out that we have provided in the orders that this scale does not apply in the case of discrimination or harassment. It is not a question, contrary to what is sometimes stated, of reducing the fundamental rights of employees, but, as I said, of ensuring visibility for both the employee and the company. With regard to the first judgments which went against this scale, it must first be borne in mind that their number remains limited, in proportion to the applications lodged before the workers. Out of an estimate of 30,000 judgments likely to be affected, some 20 have given rise to the debate on the scale's contractuality: the proportion is low. Most importantly, the Constitutional Council and the Council of State have accepted the scale in the light of all our constitutional norms and have specifically addressed its compatibility with the International Labour Organization regulations. While these judgements have not yet been appealed or given an opinion by the Court of Cassation, since the Council of State and the Constitutional Council have examined precisely the grounds for calling certain scales into question, it seems to me that we are in a context of good legal certainty. Finally, with regard to the decline in the number of recourses to labour, there is an increasing number of mediations. That was a little of our goal. Indeed, the framework for the conditions of dismissal provides both parties with a framework in which they can more easily negotiate. If we move towards less conflict and more contracting or mediation, it will be in the interests of both employees and businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u44	Mrs Carole Grandjean has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u45	The ordinances of 22 September 2017 reformed many aspects of social dialogue and labour relations, notably by broadening the scope and scope of collective bargaining, in particular corporate bargaining, transforming the organisation of staff representative institutions and amending the rules for the validation of agreements. As you pointed out, Madam Minister, rapporteur, they are making a major change in the area of social dialogue, creating conditions conducive to encouraging this dialogue and changing the framework for social relations in the company. This cultural change in social dialogue is a historic turning point in our labour law. It is also one of the foundations of the sustainable and global performance of our companies. This cycle, which has been under way for several years, is now based on openness and trust. It also makes it possible to take better account of the needs and expectations of employees, their health and well-being at work, as well as the diversity of the forms of enterprises, their size and their territorial location. As such, the ordinances require that before 31 December 2019 a social and economic committee be set up for companies with 11 or more employees, operating the merger of the former employee representative bodies: staff delegates, works council and committee on hygiene, safety and working conditions. In its report issued in December 2018, the Committee for the Evaluation of Orders of 22 September 2017, created under the governance of France Strategy, notes that, according to the latest figures, as of 1 November 2018, nearly 10500 institutions have already installed it. As you said, minister, many more have been created since then – today we are at more than 23,000 institutions. It is therefore finally a sure and confident progression, and perhaps an appetence for simplification, that this revolution – or this evolution – proposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u46	Thank you, Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u47	In the light of the feedback, how do you still plan to support companies in this evolution?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u48	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u49	The Social and Economic Committee, which merges the three bodies of staff delegates, the works council and the CHSCT, has an objective that goes beyond this mere addition. It makes it possible to go beyond this by combining the places where strategic orientations are defined and the social dialogue at the local level, instead of making them two separate worlds, and by giving room for manoeuvre so that the diversity of organisations is compatible with the social and economic realities of the company. It also allows negotiation topics to be addressed in an open-ended manner. This is the experience which speaks: to distinguish on one side the course of business and the organisation of work, on the other hand the problems of everyday life and on the third, working conditions is not the best way to obtain the most provided, the most innovative and the most ambitious social and economic dialogue. This process is underway, with 23700 SSCs in place as of March 31, 2019. By 1 January 2020, all the mandates of the former representative bodies will have ended and the SSC will have to exist everywhere. I have already said that we have put in place accompanying arrangements. I rely heavily on departmental economic and social observatories for small and medium-sized enterprises. For many of them, these mechanisms are new – either they did not have a social dialogue, or they were not formalised. We have a very large influx of small businesses that discover what a free and structured, structured debate is. This support is especially important for TPEs and SMEs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That said, you are right to say that we must be able to measure, and it is not very easy, this cultural evolution which will take time to give its full effect. It is also for this reason that at the Ministry of Labour, we will organize at the end of June, probably on the 28th, a Day of Successes of the Social Dialogue, which will allow to exchange on the practices of many companies. Companies and trade unions will come to testify. We need this barometer, as we all see in our travels. This will be something very important, which will also stimulate the idea of social innovation in other companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u50	Mr Sylvain Maillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u51	Minister, I would like to draw your attention to companies with fewer than 20 employees, which are the economic lung of our country. It is indeed essential to strengthen social dialogue in these companies, so that they can adapt more easily to changes in our economy and thus be more competitive. The situation of social dialogue in companies with less than 20 employees was not satisfactory: this dialogue was almost absent – only 7% of them concluded an agreement in 2014 and 4% have a trade union delegate – which is complex and unreadable, due to the multiplicity of staff representation bodies and the overlap of their perimeters. Minister, the reform of the Labour Code that you carried upon your arrival in the department was essential. Thus, at the turn of the summer of 2018, observatories began to take initiatives to promote social dialogue in companies with fewer than 20 employees, notably through the drafting and dissemination of practical fact sheets for TPEs to clarify the topics open to negotiation allowed through the referendum. From now on, working time, Sunday time in exchange for financial compensation and the introduction of telework are points that can be the subject of a referendum. Small businesses can now enter into negotiations with their employees more easily and consult them directly. Giving the floor to employees to deal with matters that concern them directly is indeed a growing and legitimate imperative. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The referendum aims to improve democracy within the company and finally allows our country to move from a culture of confrontation to a culture of compromise. The Labour Code Reform Review Committee identified 500 texts validated by staff consultation. Minister, could you give us more details on the conduct and organisation of these referendums in companies with less than 20 employees?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u52	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u53	Mr President, you are right, the challenge is to unblock social dialogue in small businesses. I would remind you that we had a double observation: the small number of collective agreements concluded, which you recalled, and the very low rate of union delegates in companies with less than 50 employees – it was 4% and had not moved for decades. Together, we sought to find concrete solutions so that employees working in companies with less than 50 employees, or almost half of the employees in France, could benefit from the opportunities for flexibility and progress brought about by the social dialogue. The Order of 22 September 2017 made it possible to conclude an agreement in the absence of a union delegate in small businesses. In those with fewer than 20 employees, who do not have a representative, direct consultation with employees is now possible. [[Smile]] I now come to the concrete course of this consultation – we know that the word "referendum" is now quite relevant in another area! The draft agreement must be communicated to the employees 15 days before the consultation, so that they can have a period of reflection and, if they so wish, take up the role of trade union organisations or departmental observatories for social dialogue. Consultation shall be organised during working time, in the absence of the employer, under conditions which must guarantee its personal and secret character, and the agreement shall be approved by a two-thirds majority of the employees. Moreover, in companies with 11 to 49 employees, in the absence of a trade union delegate, the employer may negotiate with an elected member of the SSC, whether or not appointed, or with an appointed employee. It is interesting and encouraging to note that the social partners have begun to take ownership of these arrangements. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Previously, in the absence of agreement, many things were, paradoxically, very rigid in the TPEs and SMEs, who did not have the freedom to negotiate, or had to do so in a way that was not recognized by law. In practice, therefore, small businesses were more prevented from negotiating than large ones, which is counter-intuitive. In 2018, excluding wage savings, close to 4700 agreements were signed in companies with fewer than 50 employees and 1700 in companies with 1 to 10. This dynamic is becoming much stronger at the beginning of the year, as I mentioned. We will therefore follow this subject together with great interest. I think we're on!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u54	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u55	On the eve of May 1st, it is a good thing to take stock of the work orders. These provisions have been in force and put into practice by the social partners for almost two years. The Republican Group played its full part in the discussion of this text. The President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, drew heavily on the fundamentals of the right to set up his reform and the group's proposals were partly satisfied – only simplification is not enough on the agenda. The most emblematic measure of the first reform of the quinquennium is the scale of compensation paid by the employer, which has undoubtedly had an impact on the behaviour of employees and enterprises. Minister, you're talking about a 15% drop in litigation between 2016 and 2017. However, the ordinances came into force in September 2017: how can we talk about the benefits of this provision in such a short time and on projections from impact studies? In addition, these ordinances have made a lot of talk about them about social and economic committees. Nearly 9,000 of these unique bodies were created in the first half of 2018. The figure is honourable, but how could it have been otherwise, when the consolidation of staff representative bodies is an obligation for companies? This is more a matter of forced march than of voluntary action. Work orders were also intended to strengthen social dialogue, i.e. to boost business agreements. On this point, the beginnings are dusty. The professional branches, at a higher level, are also supposed to have seized labour orders to negotiate on subjects reserved for them. The balance sheet is simply catastrophic, with only metallurgy having reached an agreement. It is regrettable that the first fifty branches, which concern 85 % of employees, are not affected by these operations. Minister, work value is a real subject. The main concern of a company manager is to find motivated staff, in all sectors of activity and at all levels, from the production station to the position of engineer. How can we explain an unemployment rate of 8.8%? What effective measures do you intend to take so that our companies can secure their market?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u56	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u57	During the debates, we had quoted the figures of the use of labour for 2017; I now have figures for 2018. In 2017, 127387 appeals had been filed, while in 2018 the figure was 119801, so the decline continues. The fact that the rules of the game are known and that a scale governs dismissals, except in cases of discrimination or harassment, leads the parties to contract or resort more often to a mediator. This is preferable for the employee, who previously had to wait two or three years before knowing the amount of his allowances, which weighed on his ability to project himself in the future: it is indeed very difficult to find a job when one is waiting for a decision by the workers. And for companies, the lack of a scale was a psychological barrier to hiring, especially for small ones, who wondered what would happen if they had to separate themselves from an employee. I'm going to the branches. Appropriation of orders starts faster in companies, including TPEs and SMEs, than in industries; in this, I agree with you. This is a priori counter-intuitive, because things seem easier for branches, which are organized, structured and have a sustained social dialogue. It is interesting that TPE-SMEs, for which this process is a novelty, take up the prescriptions: they have understood that they have been designed also for themselves and for employees. This dynamic, which is the most new element, is very interesting. Three branches, including cleanliness and public works, have entered into agreements as a result of the ordinances. You are asking me more broadly, beyond the ordinances, about the strategy to combat mass unemployment. I will not have time to develop our entire skills strategy policy. The unemployment rate has risen from 9.7% to 8.8%, but perhaps we could have gone a little faster if we had not encountered the obstacle of the lack of skills available in the labour market. Today, there is a very strong correlation between the lack of qualifications and the unemployment rate: the unemployment rate of managers is 3.8 per cent, compared with 18 per cent for unskilled people, and even double if they live in a priority area of city policy. The skills, know-how and know-how strategy is an essential element: it is the focus of the skills investment plan, where the two aspects, know-how and know-how, are taken into account. It is also the meaning of the law for the freedom to choose your professional future. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, good news, while I had already welcomed the results of the apprenticeship last year: the number of apprentice contracts in the private sector has increased by more than 12% since the beginning of the year. The signals are green, but there is still a lot to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u58	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u59	Madam Minister, you said, quite rightly, that the first urgency to solve in order to renovate our social model was to give our businesses more freedom, in particular to create jobs. You told us that the complexity of the labour code was an obstacle to this freedom. However, it must be noted that your 2017 labour law actually led to the modification or addition of 500 to 600 articles, out of the 8000 already existing articles. It did not, therefore, simplify the labour code. Many of us, however, have met with complaining entrepreneurs. They tell us the same thing: labour law is illegible, complex and sometimes upuesque. It stifles entrepreneurs under the burden of sometimes unjustified or even unnecessary administrative constraints. They are obliged to complete multiple forms and to justify everything at all times. This excess of standards and administrative constraints discourages them, whether to create employment or to develop their activity. Can you explain to the national representative how this inflation of standards simplifies the labour code? The thresholds laid down in the Labour Code, in particular the threshold of 50 employees, are a revealing example: as soon as a company crosses this threshold, it must bear no less than thirty-four additional legal and tax obligations. Tell us, Madam Minister, where the simplification is hidden! You might as well say that these thresholds are a considerable obstacle to growth and job creation. We regret that the Government's plan to modify the social model, which includes the ordinances, is not really aimed at reforming them. Minister, beyond the review of labour orders, what concrete measures does the Government intend to take to really simplify the Labour Code?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u60	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u61	Madam Member, three points are in line with your wishes. First of all, we have fundamentally changed not only the labour code but also its spirit: God knows if we have had controversial debates on this subject in this House! Indeed, since there is much more room for negotiation with trade union organisations in the company on economic and social issues, the labour code, i.e. the norm, now intervenes on a whole series of subjects only in the absence of agreement in the company, as a substitute. Thus, the useful part of the labour code for the company is suppletive in many cases. Then you mentioned the thresholds: in the CAPTE law, we grouped them together, in order to avoid the multiplication effect, and we smoothed the threshold passage: it will now be necessary to have exceeded the threshold for five years in order to be subject to all the obligations. This will solve the problem of companies that increase from 49 to 51 employees, then fall to 48 before rising to 52, changing bonds each year. They will have to remain above 50 employees for a period of five years in order for the obligations to apply, which will greatly simplify the situation. Finally, I think that one issue is very important in 2019: it does not concern both the texts and the report of the citizen, the taxpayer, from the subject to the text. That is why we are preparing, together with the Directorate-General for Labour, a digital labour code for early 2020. It will not be a copy-paste of the labour code but an interactive way of asking questions: an employee or a company will be able to ask a labour law question, and all the answers, whether they are subject to the law, the regulations or, gradually, collective agreements, will be directly accessible. For example, it will be possible to find out what working hours can be imposed in the building sector, depending on the size of the business or the situation. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is by obtaining concrete and practical answers to concrete and practical questions that will change the relationship to labour law in SMEs. Labour law will finally speak to companies without human resources management.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u62	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u63	On September 23, 2017, labour orders were signed, the spirit of which was extremely clear: strengthening social dialogue in companies and securing labour relations. These 36 measures have been taken to move towards a more flexible and secure world of work, as well as to offer a new management model involving employees more closely in decision-making. With regard to co-management in decision-making, the changes seem to be more timid. We will continue to set up new negotiating rules, such as the referendum, in companies with 20 to 50 employees, a real step towards democracy and dialogue, or the merger of staff representative bodies into a social and economic committee. It is on this last point that I wish to dwell, Madam Minister, even if you have dealt in part with the question by answering our colleague Boris Vallaud earlier – I listened carefully. The figures I have are the same as those put forward by our colleague: only 10500 SSCs have been created, raising legitimate fears on the part of both employers and trade union representatives. How can we reassure them and accompany them in this creation? You have spoken of a certain dynamic, but I will go to the end of my question: can you reassure the national representation, who is concerned? The deadline for achieving the target and removing the remaining brakes has been set at 31 December 2019. Even if the momentum is there, as you announced – we do not have access to these figures – I hope, minister, that you will be able to shed some light on our work tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u64	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u65	You are right, Member: the question is that of dynamics. Any profound change, especially if it is based on cultural change, takes a little time. Since September 22, 2017, 40,000 companies have been subject to the introduction of an SSC. It took a little time for them all to know, but we are seeing an acceleration. This applies to all enterprises with more than 50 employees, many of whom, up to 150 employees, did not have any bodies. If for some, so, it all boils down to a merger, for others, it's a bit of a discovery. This acceleration, which we have seen in the last few months, is therefore interesting: while we were at 12,000 companies at the end of the year, we reached 23700 by 31 March. On a basis of 40,000 companies, 17000 still have to fulfil this obligation. We also observed that large companies went rather less quickly, because they needed time to redo the entire architecture and discuss with the trade unions: where to put local representatives? How to focus on health and safety, where the stakes are greater? how to organize themselves, what become of those who lose their mandate, how are they reclassified into the company, how do they find a job? All these subjects take time. For large companies, the movement is accelerating. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Moreover, until a few months ago we did not have observatories for social dialogue. There are now some in each department, and their priority will be to accompany this movement. The DIRECCTE are at the service of companies and trade union organisations to help them set up them. We will continue to accompany them intensively throughout the year: I hope that we will be able to celebrate their success at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u66	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u67	I would like to return to the important subject of the prud'homal scale. Today, a number of prud'hommes' councils refuse to apply your schedule, minister. In Lyon, the chairman of the board representing employers drafted a text excluding the application of the scale. I have heard you say that in the end, the legal risk is low. But it must be seen above all as a judgment of resistance! You are, Madam Minister, in a difficult situation, and we are not surprised: both in the examination of your orders and in the referral to the Constitutional Council, we warned you that this scale was contrary to the 1996 European Social Charter and to the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Convention 158. This view is also widely shared by several trade union organisations. Above all, we believe that this reform is unfounded. You mentioned the notions of predictability and safety for employers, and in particular the prud'homale anxiety of small business managers. Yet, a study by the Chancellery shows that judges already take into account the size of the company; Another study shows that this issue is only eighth in the employer's agenda. My question is therefore very simple, minister: can you hear that your mandatory scale leads to maximum unpredictability and insecurity for employers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u68	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u69	As I said earlier, Madam Member, you refer to some 20 cases out of 30,000 judgments: talking about general insecurity seems a little disproportionate to me. But first of all, I would like to thank you: thanks to your referral to the Constitutional Council, we have a pre-reading of the Council which is very secure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u70	Thank you, colleagues!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u71	You have taken this issue of compatibility with the ILO regulation, and we have a very specific answer on this subject. Thank you for allowing this legal security. Of course, judicial proceedings must proceed: there will certainly be an appeal and the Court of Cassation will certainly decide on the matter. But honestly, the question is not there, because the scheme does not present a great legal risk. Beyond that, we looked at what was being done in other countries. A large majority of both employees and companies prefer a framework, which gives them visibility and a negotiating capacity while leaving the judge his freedom of assessment, to a system considered to be quite unpredictable, intrinsically and also because of the differences that could exist from one board to another, without any common benchmark. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We have therefore done useful work by providing a framework, preserving the judge's freedom of assessment and developing mediation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u72	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u73	During the review of the bill to ratify labour orders in November 2017, Francis Vercamer, Charles de Courson and I had defended an amendment introducing an end-of-care medical examination for some workers. It was intended to take into account the specific situation of workers benefiting from, or benefiting from, the enhanced individual monitoring system during their professional careers. In particular, it targeted employees exposed to certain risks to their health or safety, exposure to asbestos, ionizing radiation, lead or carcinogens in particular. These employees must now be examined by the occupational doctor during a medical check-up prior to their retirement, which allows for traceability and an inventory of exposures to one or more occupational risk factors and for possible monitoring in connection with the attending physician beyond the period of professional activity. By drawing on the expertise of the occupational doctor, this measure avoids the loss of end-of-career information and improves the monitoring of the employee's situation. This represents real and tangible progress in the prevention of diseases related to occupational exposures. Our amendment, which we welcome as it is now included in the law, left it to the Council of State to specify by decree how this measure is to be implemented. However, the time frame for the implementation of the law available on Legislation indicates that the publication of the decree is envisaged at the end of September 2018... almost eight months ago. To this day, Madam Minister, there is still nothing. Could you explain to us the reasons for this delay and commit yourself to publishing this decree as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u74	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u75	On the occasion of the orders, the Member, you asked questions about exposure to occupational risks. The report I had commissioned from Professor Frimat on this very important subject highlights the essential question of traceability: without traceability, we see it today in successive judgments on the subject of asbestos, it is extremely complicated to solve the problem. However, exposure to occupational risks is a major topic, not quantitatively but qualitatively, which has very important consequences for employees. We really need to prevent and repair this exposure. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As part of the occupational health reform, we will have an opportunity to decide on this issue. A few weeks ago we sent the social partners a guidance document on health at work which evokes a possible field of discussion. We have asked them to tell us by the end of June whether they wish to complete this basis in order to open negotiations and consultations with the State. By the end of June at the beginning of July, we will agree with the social partners on the modalities for joint work or negotiation on this subject, before submitting proposals to Parliament in the framework of a health-at-work law which I agree with you is indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u76	No relation to my question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u77	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u78	Last week, at his "great conference" which held more oral or even catch-up speech, the President of the Republic claimed to have created more than 500,000 jobs in two years. This bold formula is a school case illustrating what we debated a short time ago: it is a fake news, or false information, inaccurate or misleading allegation. It is true that many things can be said in the figures. For my part, I have tried to compare what is comparable from year to year. I therefore took the unemployment figures for the last quarter of 2018 and the last quarter of 2017, adding together all categories of unemployed, categories A, B, C and D, to see clearly. The result is that we have gone from 6204900 unemployed people to 6200300, or 4600 unemployed less, which everyone welcomes but which should cause a little less triumphalism. Especially since this year you have chosen to continue spending 22 billion dollars on the CICE, which I would remind you was meant to create 1 million jobs to believe at the time, Mr Gattaz. Twenty-two billion for 4,600 jobs is expensive! You have told us that these 22 billion have saved 115 000 jobs, which means that every job saved will have cost 191304 euros. This makes the job preserved expensive! With the same sum we could have recruited 100,000 nurses, 250,000 teachers, 150,000 extracurricular animators, 200000 municipal police officers or 100,000 of these firefighters that we all congratulated on the rescue of Notre-Dame de Paris but which are demanding more resources. Are you going, Madam Minister, to continue this policy that produces nothing real and costs the taxpayer a lot?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u79	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u80	Mr President, without wishing to be unpleasant, I believe that your question contains a number of fake news, incorrect or incorrect information which is quite impressive. I will not take them all back, but I would like to make a few points clear. First, job creation is not measured by the number of unemployed. This is the net number of jobs created in the country, subtracted from job losses. And nearly 500,000 net jobs have been created in two years. We need to know that, just to maintain our level of unemployment, we need to create net jobs. Indeed, our working population increases by about 100,000 people each year. This is the inverse problem of Germany, whose demographics and therefore the labour force naturally decline every year. Our situation is a good sign in terms of demographics and dynamics for the future, but in the short term we need to create 100,000 net jobs just to maintain our unemployment rate. Secondly, the figures you cited are not those of job seekers but are related to the administrative categories of the Employment Centre, which include people who have a job and who turn to Employment Centre for change, and others who are not available or are in training. They cannot be regarded as unemployed. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] What is certain is that the International Labour Office and INSEE have shown that the unemployment rate has risen from 9.7% to 8.8% since we arrived, and that we have created nearly 500,000 net jobs. We can rejoice, even if we have to go much further: this is the only point on which we will agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u81	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u82	First gesture of your majority a little over 18 months ago, Madam Minister, the work orders are supposed to bear fruit, as you announced yesterday in the press. Yet the pro-business discourse of candidate Macron, which was aimed at reviving breath, flexibility and freedom for businesses, has made many disappointed, mainly in SMEs, who shout their ras-le-bol. At a meeting held in Béziers last January with heads of TPE and SMEs, I could hear this: "Macron created hope. The disappointment is harsh. In the end, there are only large groups." This supposedly pro-business speech was still contradicted last Thursday by the announcements of the Head of State. Again, it is businesses that will pay the tax measures to households. As a result, your prescriptions do not solve the problem of employment. Our unemployment rate, at 8.8%, although slightly falling, remains among the highest in Europe, with only Spain, Italy and Greece doing less than we do. The situation is the same in terms of training, in line with your orders. In my constituency the critics are legion against France's powers. This body, which aims to raise the training funds of companies in place of the OPCAs – recognised joint collecting bodies – which have become OPCOs – must then redistribute the money to the companies so that they continue their policy of maintaining in employment, via the skills plan. The observation is bitter: money has only returned to 25 % in the trades, which immediately reduced refunds to enterprises and thus to training centres by 75 %. However, training is an essential component of the fight against unemployment: in the Biterrois, where the unemployment rate is much higher than the national average, more than 10,000 job offers do not find themselves in need of adequate training. What solution, Madam Minister, could help our TPEs and SMEs to develop and finally live from the fruit of their work?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u83	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u84	It seems to me in all honesty, and a very large majority of companies say so, that we have never done so much to stimulate the growth of businesses and thus of employment. In 18 months there have been labour orders, the PACTE law, the reduction of corporate tax, the transformation of the CICE and the long-term reduction of employers' costs up to 2.5 SMIC, the liberalisation of apprenticeship which allows companies to set up their own training centres and develop their skills, the installation of competence operators, all of which are in place today, and the skills investment plan, which allows, through Pôle Emploi, to finance preparations for employment and to match qualifications directly with the needs of companies. In a country, everyone must be able to receive and contribute to the support of the community. Given all the investments we have made, the results of which can be seen in terms of job creation or corporate equity, and also given the intensity of the period at the social level and the importance of the challenges facing our country, it is natural that companies should be asked to play their part. They will do so by hiring more apprentices, by offering third-rate internships to young people in priority neighbourhoods of city politics, who do not have the networks to find them, by welcoming people with disabilities – they are 500,000 registered in Pôle Emploi – and more generally by contributing to the nation's effort, of which they are also beneficiaries. Everyone benefits from health, education and solidarity: everyone must be able to contribute to it, especially businesses. I think most people understand that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u85	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-30-O1218.u86	Next sitting, Monday, 6 May, at 4 p.m.: Discussion of the proposed law on the establishment of a national music centre; Discussion of the proposal for a law to strengthen the support of vulnerable young adults towards autonomy. The meeting is adjourned.
