ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill for a school of trust (No. 1481, 1629).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly finished hearing the speakers in the general discussion. The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u3	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will not be very long, because the discussion of the articles will allow me to give a detailed answer to the various points raised during the general discussion. I will only repeat in a systemic way what has been said about the project as such and will specify two or three points, which, in my initial speech, may not be sufficiently clear. Let us recall the two objectives of the bill: raising the general level and social justice. We must come back to this on an ongoing basis, because it is good, in a society of trust, that we trust each other in defining the objectives we pursue. Of course, we can discuss the path to be taken, but just as I have no doubt that everyone is aiming for the success of the students, so I ask you to believe that my objective is the one I have just stated. Don't feed me what a fantasy vision about the end of the public service of education. If that were my objective, I think that would be the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u4	It can be seen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u5	The measures I have taken over the past 18 months clearly show that I am not looking for an end to the public education service, let alone a two-speed school – except when we move to higher speed in priority education areas. For the quality of our discussions, to move the debate forward, it is important to postulate our good faith in the pursuit of our objectives,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u6	The basic premise is that he's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u7	...even if we may have some differences – after all, some may not be in favour of raising the general level or social justice... We can then discuss the best way to reach them. I will insist on two essential vectors in this bill. To answer certain objections, I make it clear from the outset that I have never claimed to solve, through this text, all the problems of the school. Even if we amend it, many subjects will remain out of the way, because, as I said in taking up my duties, there is no law that can solve all the problems in education. That is why we have objectives that, if important, remain circumscribed. It is not easy to summarize them. However, two of them seem essential to me. They are identified everywhere as the first, the most important to change the quality of the education system. The first is teacher training, on which we will obviously come back in the next few days. That is an essential point. Let us not underestimate what is happening in this area. I was surprised that some of you are seriously attacking the pre-recruitment scenarios that we have envisaged, when this is one of the most social dimensions and the most capable of improving the quality of our education system in the coming years. On this and other points, each one will take on his or her responsibilities. If you want to remain, in history, like those who have spoken out against an effective pre-recruitment, against a social measure that will allow students to live on their income from the first years of their faculty, do so, but do not underestimate the importance of such a measure both in terms of the quality of the education system and in terms of society. Do not claim that this is an improvised measure either. I would remind you that we have been discussing this for months with the trade union organisations and that it has been welcomed by the actors. I bet, moreover, that she will be praised by those to whom she addresses. If I was a second-year college student, I'd really like to apply for a pre-recruitment. The second key factor in any education system is the relationship between parents and school. If the word trust matters, it's good in this relationship. In this area, however, we have progress to make. Article 1, which we will examine in a moment, sends an important signal. Unfortunately, on this article as on others, attention has curiously turned away from the essential to focus on the accessory. The focus was on the first sentence of the article, while the second had almost no comment. However, it is the latter – I would point it out to the speakers who will speak in a moment – that gives its full meaning to the article, since it relates to the mutual respect of the actors, in particular to the respect that the parents must testify to the teachers – which, in the news of last week, is an illustration a contrario. On these two key issues in education, the bill, far from being silent, opens the way for much-needed progress. In response to various speakers, I would like to stress that it focuses on primary school. Many of you have recalled this priority that I have been posting for eighteen months. Fundamental knowledge – reading, writing, counting, respecting others – is at the centre of our action, of the educational measures we have taken and of those we will take for the training of teachers. The same priority was given to the duplication of CPs and EC1, as well as to the creation of positions in the first degree. That is why, at the risk of causing in you the feeling of fatigue that I sometimes experience myself by answering questions on this subject,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u8	Change your profession!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u9	...I repeat that there is no abolition of posts in primary school, and that the rates of supervision will improve after returning to each department. Mr Larive, I have checked the figures: the rate of supervision of Ariège is very similar to that of the Meuse.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u10	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u11	The deputy for the Meuse, who quoted it, was kind enough to stress the benevolence of national education in his department. In Ariège, you will pass, as in many departments, the symbolic heading of a P/E – the number of full-time equivalent positions per 100 students in the first degree – above 6, since you will increase from 5.97 to 6.3, which places you very much above the national average. Of course, our goal is benevolence to rural schools. I insist on that because I agree with the first part of the speech you delivered earlier, to which I would not have cut off a comma. What you said about rural school and multi-level classes is strictly correct. I don't get tired of repeating it. Yes, in France, rural schools succeed better than the average of primary schools. Yes, multi-level classes, sometimes criticized, can be – as you said very well – synonymous with pedagogical quality, when they are well done, which is often the case. There is no reason to wish for the end of this school in our country. I ask you to believe me: we are pursuing a policy of support for this school, which can take various forms, maintaining a school with a multi-level class or educational grouping when the mayors wish, but in any case we must all want to maintain a strong rural primary school. The real problem – I say so in a somewhat solemn way – is demographic. Yet, if we all know, we finally talk about it very little: 40000 to 50000 children are missing each year. Indeed, it is born a little less than 750,000 out of the 800,000 that should come to the world in our country. However, this birth deficit mainly affects rural areas. The real answer to the real problem that you mentioned is a strong strategy of the State, which we want to pursue with local authorities, to re-attract the population in rural areas, in particular through an attractive primary school. This strategy takes time. It must also be affirmed. We also need to make the right diagnosis of the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u12	That's not the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u13	On this and other issues, if people are disillusioned by believing that the Government is pursuing objectives other than those it has set itself, then we are contributing to a pessimism that can be self-realizing. On the other hand, if we all share the desire to see rural schools bounce back, and if we hold this speech, all political tendencies combined, we will bring a fine demonstration that, from time to time, a little unity can create the virtuous circle of trust. Now, there are times when there are no more children in a village, or when it becomes negative for the village as well as its population to maintain a school with too small a number – as is sometimes seen – or when it is necessary to move from four to three classes, for obvious demographic reasons. Nevertheless, the rates of supervision are much more favourable for rural schools than for urban schools. I recall figures that I quote frequently: there are fourteen students per class in Lozère, fifteen in Vendée and sixteen in Cantal – not in CP or CE1, but from the small section to the CM2. After returning home, there is a benevolence for rural school. But because this benevolence will not suffice if we continue to observe a demographic decline, our strategy of alliance between the municipalities and the state in favour of a demographic rebound is the key to everything. That's what we have to do. In the meantime, we will continue to improve the management rate in each department, returning after re-entry. I have allowed myself such a development, because the bill does not really address this issue. I said: the text is not intended to deal with everything, but it makes pedagogy in primary school a priority. I share a common conviction among speakers from all groups: the rural world must be at the forefront of a successful primary school. The measures that you may adopt in the field of basic knowledge, teacher training or digital education can be particularly evident in the rural world. The rural school can show the way, because it already achieves better results. In the background of the law, we also set out the budgetary priorities that we have decided and which I fully assume. You have touched on other points that I will answer on an article-by-article basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u14	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u15	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u16	Let us go beyond certain partisan divisions, let us avoid any dogmatic thinking to deal with the deep crisis that the school is going through and to which your text intends to remedy. To reach the school of trust that we all call for, we must first make sure that it is present everywhere and for all. A school of trust consists of increasing dialogue and no longer putting parents, staff and elected representatives in front of the accomplished fact of class closures from year to year. A school of trust is re-establishing a little authority, responsibility, but also common sense. A school of trust is to respect those elected on the ground who work to attract families in order to make their commune live and give it a future. A school of trust is the one that allows the social elevator while generating the support of students who see it as a chance to succeed. A school of trust is to promote merit and work, where too often the policy of excuse and levelling down have been practiced. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The text before us lacks breath and, above all, a little ambition to respond to what its title suggests. It's up to us to legislate to fix it. Minister, you seemed to have a kind look at my call for consistency and consistency; I will recall these principles, like mantras. Colleagues, Minister, I dare to believe that, despite our differences, we can find ourselves on the fundamentals of the school, on which our country so much needs to rely.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u17	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u18	An article 1e r whose wording is criticized by the Council of State, which calls on the Government not to maintain its provisions, is not trivial. To this is added a chronology that is at best clumsy, at the worst unfortunate – your ministry wants to introduce it at the moment when the hashtag "no wave" spreads, by which many teachers denounce the abandonment of their hierarchy in the face of violence. Strange application of your promise to hear the malaise that the profession expresses on social networks! This reference to the duty of exemplaryness, it did not take any more to raise shields on the part of teachers who, to say the least, did not need it. They felt it more as a sign of distrust, a sign of a desire to muzzle their freedom of expression than as a simple way to recall the principle of exemplaryness – to which, moreover, they adhere. They are not wrong: legally, a publication on the Internet can be considered, according to the judge who appreciates it, as a breach of the duty of obedience. [[Mrs. Elsa Faucillon applauds]] In the face of the many reactions that the provisions of this article provoked, on January 8, you stated on France Culture, that you wanted to modify its wording in order to remove the misunderstandings and to remove any ambiguity that might cast doubt on the sincerity of your speech. However, during the examination in committee, you refused to do so, which explains our concern. And the reference, in your recent interview in the Sunday Journal, to Jules Ferry, known for being hostile to the collective expression of teachers, did not help to reassure us. Therefore, Minister, we ask you not to create an obligation for national education officials not provided for in the general statute of civil servants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u19	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u20	The law stipulates that students and their families must respect the school institution and all staff. The link between families and school seems to me essential, but it is not enough to proclaim it: a policy must be developed with regard to families, especially those furthest from school. Very often, it is said that parents are not sufficiently present, are not sufficiently interested in school and have no relationship with her. However, it has been realized, particularly in the context of educational success policies, that this link can be created by allowing parents to come to school more easily, and not only when their child has committed such or such nonsense. That should be imperative. Yet, despite the intentions set out in Article 1, it is not clear what policy you intend to pursue to facilitate relations, outside of any conflict, between the family and the teaching team. Parents are indeed part of the educational community. Consideration must be given to how to make them truly involved in what is being done in schools. Too often, especially when they have themselves been poorly rated students, this link is not created or hurts. It is up to the authorities to ensure that this essential link can be established.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u21	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u22	Minister, this first article runs counter to what, if I am not mistaken, your intentions are to restore confidence in the school. You call on us to read the second sentence of paragraph 2, which deals with "respect for students and their families for the school institution and for all its staff", but there is one reason why so many actors have focused on the first sentence. The sacrosanct example that you are calling for suggests that the majority of teachers are not able to do the part of things, to tend like each of us to the greatest possible neutrality and objectivity. Teachers serve their institutions with loyalty and conviction; They are, in their own way, the hussars of the Republic. However, by urging them to follow increasingly binding guidelines, we are building a mini-society within the school where commitment, contrary to what you say, becomes suspicious and where convictions and passions are confused with irresponsible biases. The model we offer to our youth is that of an aseptic world, far from the real world, and unwilling to promote the spirit of free will that we constantly boast. What then becomes of our commitment, such as union membership? How does one come to the situation where teachers and heads of institutions no longer dare to speak the word "political" without being called dangerous activists? The defiance of parents towards teachers reflects that of society as a whole. The job is not well considered. As a young teacher told me yesterday, this cruel lack of trust cannot be redeemed: money does not cure exhaustion. We ask our teachers a lot; As a result, they experience possible failures with violence. What is crumbling is trust, replaced by the terrible sense of guilt they feel in the exercise of their mission. Mr Minister, I assure you with the utmost sincerity, what the teachers expect from you is the unequivocal affirmation of your confidence in them, and certainly not an umpteenth warning that they will interpret, as you know, as a sign of great distrust.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u24	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u25	First of all, I would like to welcome the spirit of this bill, which aims to re-establish the bond of trust that has severely deteriorated in recent years between all the players in the educational community and the school institution. How do I define the school of trust? It is first of all a school that offers a caring, inclusive and serene environment for all the children of the Republic, because the pleasure of learning and the well-being in class are two pillars of the success of all. The school of trust is a school that guarantees equal opportunities, regardless of its environment of origin, by transmitting a common foundation of values and knowledge. Nevertheless, this founding quest for equality must not lead to uniformity. Republican universalism has led too long to blindness; The specificities of each child have not been sufficiently taken into account: I want proof of this: the fight against school harassment, which affects 700000 children each year, i.e. one in ten children. This figure, considered in isolation, masks a reality which the school institution is confronted with. The "pede" insult remains the most widely used in recreation classes; an overwhelming majority of LGBT youth – lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender – suffer from harassment. I must pay tribute, Minister, to the courage you have shown in taking an initiative on this matter. National education has long dealt with the fight against discrimination in a generalist and disembodied manner, in terms of tolerance and respect for others, without taking into account the specific needs of these young people. However, the experience of harassment by gay or trans youth is not quite the same as that of children who are victims of anti-Semitism or racism – simply because, often, they cannot talk about it to their parents or teachers, who are not always listening, which reinforces their sense of isolation and uneasiness. Similarly, applying the same rules to everyone, mechanically and rigidly, can be a source of violence. This is the case for trans children in school.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u26	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u27	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Because we apply ourselves to using the pronoun that corresponds to the sex registered in the civil state, without always worrying about the gender identity of the child, we reinforce situations of ill-being. It is therefore important to name things well and to provide an inclusive, caring and child-friendly school environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u28	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u29	The school of trust... The word "trust" is recurring in the titles of your bills. Method Coué or not, trust is earned, minister, but is not decreed. And trust doesn't rule out control. As you said, Madam rapporteur, this article should be read as a preamble, a statement of principles. It aims to place trust among the main principles that govern our education system. But what are you going to do, minister, so that all this doesn't remain beautiful words or attractive promises? Many teachers in the Loire have told me of their concerns about this article, which they believe will limit their freedom of expression. Will they be subject to disciplinary sanctions if they express themselves on social networks or if they insurrection against a particular project within their institution? On the basis of the opinion of the Council of State, we suggest that you withdraw this article, which certainly expresses some of the indisputable values around which the school of the Republic must be built, but which does not by itself produce any legal effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u30	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u31	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u32	Mr Yannick Kerlogot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u33	In this first article, Mr Minister, you wished to recall the reciprocal confidence pact that binds teachers, students and parents around the school. In recent days, I read Idiss, by Robert Badinter, this testimony of a grandson's love to his Jewish grandmother in Bessarabie, who arrived in Paris at the beginning of the 20th century. In particular, I have taken from this shocking reading a valuable testimony about the Third Republic school, which allowed integration, social ascent. Yes, Minister, the emphasis on trust is necessary in this time of doubt. The school of 2019 has of course evolved, starting with the profile, personality, behaviour of the students it welcomes. However, its missions remain the teaching of basic knowledge, which is a challenge to reinvent in a renewed society. Trust is necessary to rehabilitate, reinvent the taste for effort, investment, commitment, which are all essential values. This bill does not intend to be a new piece of legislation that would defend "education to...": the content taught is in the regulatory field. However, many amendments are intended to draw your attention to this point. The finding is that too many pupils do not develop in a school environment conducive to their development. Skin colour, disability, gender, sexual orientation are always pretexts for discrimination, harassment. Call for trust, therefore, to assume and live its difference. In committee, I had the opportunity to greet the campaign "That's enough! you have launched to fight homophobia and transphobia in high school and high school. National education today agrees to take its part in this cause; primary school must also be associated with it, particularly in the foundation of initial and in-service teacher training. The proposed measures are in the right direction. They should be greeted and encouraged. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Erwan Balanant also applauds]] Trust is part of diversity. In this regard, Minister, you will not be surprised to be questioned about the issue of regional languages. Together with other colleagues, I plead for a multicultural France brought about by a new humanism. France, born mosaic of terroirs, has built one and indivisible in uniformity. The time has come, without touching the foundation of republican principles, to consolidate a Republic of diversity, a multicultural Republic finally assumed. Several amendments are intended to encourage the involvement of municipalities in favour of regional languages.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u34	Mr. Alexandre Freschi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u35	This article anchors in the law the bonds of trust that must unite the different members of the educational community. These links, as you pointed out, Minister, are the foundation of the school we are calling for. Article 1 is addressed to both staff and users – families and students. In other words, the main word of the article is "reciprocity": all must respect one another – which will be the subject of an amendment by the majority. The school of trust cannot be done in one direction; It must be based on a relationship of respect due to both families and national education staff. By emphasizing the exemplaryness and commitment of teachers, this section demonstrates how central they are to the bill. Without them, the school of trust is impossible. This is therefore not a mistrust of the system vis-à-vis teachers, but rather a consideration of their responsibilities. Article 1e r values them, recalls that they are the pillars of the school system and attests to a sign of the institution's deep confidence in them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, contrary to what has been said, this article has a real normative scope. It places the protection of the bond of trust at the expense of both the families, the teaching staff and the public service of the school. It may be invoked in disciplinary cases involving national education personnel who have committed acts that undermine the reputation of the public service, but they may also invoke it if they are subjected to violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u36	Mr. Francis Chouat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u37	This article on the commitment of the entire educational community is an opportunity for the national representation to know if it is able, in its diversity, to deliver to teachers, families and young people a strong message about the urgent need to come together so that the school can regain its place as a fundamental pillar of our republican and secular foundation, and its promise of equality and liberation. It would be a lot of blindness, and probably a lot of bad faith, to suggest that this article would carry liberticide germs. I have known well the years when teacher unionism was flamboyant, the federations of parents of pupils were massively representative, the rooms of teachers were inflamed, the general assemblies of teachers and high school students were frequent, and yet the sacred union existed between society, the institution and the educational community on the emancipatory and liberating role of the school. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Today, the threat does not weigh on these freedoms, but comes from breaking the link between school and society, the gap of incomprehension between those who passionately engage in the transmission of knowledge and the students or their families, and pressures – we must say so! – of all kinds, anti-secular, community-based, and even verbal and physical violence. In the popular city of which I have been mayor, education and the transmission of knowledge can be particularly undermined when teachers and families do not act hand in hand; I measure the weariness and anxiety of the staff of the educational community, who sometimes feel prevented in the proper conduct of their mission and who wonder about the deep meaning of their commitment when their function, status and protection are no longer guaranteed. That is why, minister, I fully endorse clause 1 of your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u38	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u39	Was that helpful, minister? The provisions of section 1, as you know, are among the most rejected in this bill by teachers. As you speak of a strengthening of the bond of trust, the officers of your ministry fear that this article will censor them and serve to impose disciplinary sanctions against them. The anger in the country continues to rise against your government's policy, and national education officials are no exception. At this very moment, a mobilization is underway a few meters from here, with those who have baptized themselves the red pens. France strongly opposes the main provision of this article, the application of which may limit the freedom of expression of educational staff. It is inconceivable to include in the law a duty of exemplarity of the staff, a notion sufficiently blurred to serve I do not know what authoritarian drift. Your trust bill is received as an act of distrust towards the educational community. Was that helpful, minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u40	The question deserves to be asked!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u41	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u42	Between the Government's original bill and the text we are debating this evening, the work in committee has led to a change in section 1. It should be remembered that this is part of a chapter entitled "The commitment of the educational community". However, when one wants to gain the trust of this community, two issues are essential. The first is this question: how can the teaching profession be made attractive again? Unfortunately, we have not discussed this subject sufficiently in committee. Minister, you said you would pay attention to it, but we would like to know how you intend to do it. The second, of course, relates to revalorisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u43	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u44	You say you do some things so that students still in training can turn to the profession of teacher: a gesture is made, but what about entry into the career? You are a lawyer and know that the words used in a piece of legislation make sense; Indeed, in response to some of our comments, you reminded us just now of the meaning of words. The words "engagement", "exemplarity" and "trust" are inscribed in this text: I don't want to play the master and put you in a student situation, but could you tell us how these three concepts should be considered?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u45	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u46	These concepts remain extremely vague;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u47	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u48	They're very subjective!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u49	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the LR group]] ...and you know it, when it's blurred, it's that there's a wolf! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We would like to know how the three concepts of commitment, exemplaryness and trust will be legally dealt with.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u50	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u51	You are asking us today to rule on a law for a school of trust. Unfortunately, the account is not there. Your flagship measure, compulsory education from the age of 3, is based in part on a lie. Indeed, as my colleague Hetzel rightly pointed out earlier, in countries such as Estonia or Finland, among the best in the international programme for the monitoring of pupils' achievements – PISA – education is only compulsory from the age of six to seven. However, we are taking a totally opposite direction. A school of trust? Certainly not to families: those who choose to enrol their children from 3 to 6 years of age at home will have to be checked, in your opinion, at least once a year. A disproportionate measure, at the very least, that shows the distrust of those who are in the best position to know the needs of their children. Not to mention, I shall return to that, the difficulties which these hasty measures will pose to the communes. There will be significant extra costs, that's for sure, hence the question: who will pay? A school of trust, but almost nothing about authority or violence against teachers. I had tabled an amendment on this subject, which was rejected on the grounds that it was not linked to the text. Admit it's starting wrong. Yet in my city, in Béziers last Thursday, a teacher from Mermoz High School was violently assaulted by the father of a 15-year-old student. The correctional court has just sentenced the aggressor to two years in prison, which is happy; Nevertheless, the student in question will return to his class on Wednesday, while his violence against his teachers and comrades is no longer to be demonstrated. How do we respond with this text? None, unfortunately. A school of trust, but nothing concrete to facilitate the schooling of children with disabilities. Forget the inclusive school and break the trust of the parents of these children! [[Mr. Dino Cinieri applauds]] I could go on for a long time, but I do not want to be cheerful, Mr.Minister, because our country would need a little bit more ambitious text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u52	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u53	[[Rires on the benches of the LR, SOC, FI and GDR groups]] [[Same movements]] The school of trust bill is the third piece of legislation that has used this term in its title that we have been considering since the beginning of the quinquennium, after the law for confidence in political life and for a state in the service of a society of trust. As if your Government doubted we could trust him! I have to tell you, minister, he's not wrong. Georges Wolinski, in his album Les Pensées, wrote that he had never trusted people who want to be trusted. With Article 1, you wish to engrave in the marble of the law the need for a pact of trust, which must unite all members of the educational community and govern their relations with the school institution. A surprising article with no normative significance, to the point that the Council of State calls for the retention in the text of "provisions which, on the other hand, have their full place in its explanatory statement". No, this article doesn't bring anything. It has no other effect than to make the law too talkative, especially since its application can only be subjective. How, Minister, will you assess tomorrow the lack of confidence of a teacher or a group of teachers in his school or in the education system? My biggest disappointment with reading article 1, which you call a foundation, is that at no time is the inclusive school, which we all call for. However, you posted this policy with a great deal of communication at the beginning of the quinquennium, but you now realize that it will take a lot of time. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I have noted, Mr Minister, in your preliminary statement that this matter remains in your eyes essential and that you are prepared to accept amendments aimed at greater and better inclusion. Yes, we want disability to be dealt with as effectively and as quickly as possible. There is clearly, through this objective, a real project of society, which should have been fully integrated into Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u54	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u55	This article recalls the prerequisites without which there can be no trust in the school institution. Trust: this term alone gives a soul to the bill. Be confident. To act in confidence. Listen to each other in confidence. Transform into confidence. We need it today, as our country has lost confidence in itself in recent years. Yes, trust is necessary to carry out one of the most essential tasks of any state: the education of its future citizens. Building this trust requires the exemplaryness and commitment of the staff of the educational community, but also requires the respect of the students and their parents. It is therefore not a question of limiting teachers' right of expression, since the contours of their freedom of opinion and their duty of neutrality are already sufficiently clear. Article 1 recognizes, on the contrary, their dedication. They do a often difficult job and bravely address the challenges it entails, despite often limited means. They deserve our gratitude. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The MODEM Group wishes, by voting this article, to show its confidence and support for the members of the educational community.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u56	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u57	I will probably repeat in my own way arguments that have already been put forward. Minister, this bill is getting off to a bad start. You say you want to seek trust, but article 1 sounds like an act of distrust on its own. What's his purpose? We still do not have a clear answer to this question. It also sounds like a reminder of a form of moral obligation: you call for commitment and exemplaryness, which appears, in deceit, as a challenge to some teachers. In any case, they can receive it that way. You will only be able to judge the reality of commitment and exemplaryity on subjective grounds, which, it is to be feared, will constitute the basis of questionable disciplinary measures. This is not a trial of intent: the statement of reasons states that this article will sanction facts that affect the reputation of the public service. We see, therefore, that it will be possible, with this article, to try to circumscribe the right of expression; However, the freedom of opinion of civil servants is guaranteed by the Act of 13 July 1983, adopted at the initiative of Anicet Le Pors. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We invite you to step out of the blurred law to produce a committed and exemplary law. To that end, we must start by going back to article 1 and, no doubt, to some of the other articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u58	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u59	Much has been said at a time when we are dealing with section 1, which includes provisions in the Education Code to justify the title of the bill. Trust in the educational community is not decreed, but lived on a daily basis. Article L. 111-1 of the Education Code lays down the principle of a construction of the school with the parents, "regardless of their social origin. He says that the school is "enriched and strengthened by dialogue and cooperation among all actors in the educational community." In terms of accountability and exemplaryness, school principals play an essential role. The bill is silent about them. The principal of the school does not simply hold a position, he is a full-fledged professional. It is founded around the educational project, as a privileged interlocutor, the teachers of his school, the parents of pupils and the local elected representatives. Of course, minister, this bill does not deal with all matters, as you have said and repeated. However, I would like to recall here the daily difficulties of school principals and principals in the exercise of their work, regardless of their weekly discharge. I wish to pay tribute to them, hoping for future progress in giving them a real status.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u60	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u61	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u62	A bill for a school of trust, why not? In EC1, one in two pupils has difficulties in mental calculation; 20% of students leave primary school without mastering basic knowledge; Each year between 110000 and 140000 young people leave the school system without any diploma and without basic knowledge. Article 1 recalls the general principles of the public education service. It states: "...by their commitment and exemplaryness, the staff of the educational community contribute to the establishment of the bond of trust that must unite students and their families with the public service of education. » [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Commitment, exemplaryity, respect: beautiful formulas! Hopes created! Why not? However, we must ask ourselves: how can this be achieved, in practice and without the effects of a handle? I fear that the text – in particular Article 1 – will not provide any concrete answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u63	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u64	Minister, in your early days, you announced that there would be no Blanquer law. First of all, you said, the school does not reform only by law. Second, education is first of all a matter of dialogue between the members of the educational community. Finally, the school has undergone enough dogmatic laws in recent years to be able to claim some stability. It was not to mention the irresistible need of every minister to engrave his action in the marble of the law, at the risk of writing laws chattering and stuffing. However, you have called in committee for a concise and clear bill. Clearly, this laudable intention has not inspired the authors of article 1, which is a true model of abstraction, the very one in which our laws are too often drawn. Where is the legal norm in the midst of these absolute and undisputed truths? Where is the rule that an administrator can object to the administration and a defendant can invoke before the courts? Who can translate into law the notions of exemplaryness, commitment, respect and trust? All this blurry is likely to create legal uncertainty. Moreover, even if we use heavy words of meaning, why have we excluded the one who is probably the most lacking in contemporary school, the authority? Let us put ourselves for a moment in the place of a teacher reading clause 1 of this bill. What feeling does he have, who, of all the civil servants, should be the most important, yet who feels ill-considered, ill-paid and often despised? In the country, a movement has risen, that of red pens. It expresses common sense claims, such as the thawing of the point of index, the decline of the CSG and the consideration of all these invisible hours spent correcting the copies and talking with the families. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This bill could have been an opportunity to respond, at least in part. That's not the case. Can we build a school of trust if so many teachers no longer trust the school? Unfortunately, I doubt it. Minister, it is up to you, through the proposed provisions, to answer this question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u65	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u66	Mr.Minister, we could have addressed many issues this evening, as you suggested at the opening of the sitting, and perhaps re-establish some truths about class closures. In this regard, you are sheltered behind a rate of supervision measured at the departmental level, taking into account the duplication of classes of REP – priority education network. This macro approach does not reflect the reality of school in our rural areas. For some children with a large kindergarten section, the daily bus transport time may exceed two hours. In addition, rural areas that are not classified as REP suffer from class closures and a degraded supervision rate. Above all, inequality of opportunity is increasing in favour of children attending school in rural areas, even compared to children attending school in the suburbs. Their chances of social upswing are lower than those enjoyed by their parents. We could also have referred to the reform of high schools, which will create social inequalities by destructing education to the detriment of children from the least favoured backgrounds. Above all, it will strengthen territorial inequalities. In fact, peripheral territories are the great forgotten of certain options, such as digital or languages. That's the point, at a time when we regret the digital divide! [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] We have therefore reached clause 1 of the bill. You start the text with your strong point, minister: it's a pure communication article – the only subject where you get the average since your appointment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u67	That's pathetic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u68	There's nothing concrete about it. It unnecessarily and dangerously increases the law by vague and porous principles. Who can claim that a teacher is not engaged or exemplary? What criteria will be used to determine if he is? There is a great risk to them. I understand their anger. [[New exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] In short, can do better – must do better. Minister, you are warned: the class council – here together – will be very demanding and very severe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u69	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u70	The notion of exemplary teacher behaviour irritates. I confess that I find it difficult to understand how to maintain such a provision in a text that could have been consensual – and we still hope that it will be, as you welcome our comments and amendments, Minister. We all know the commitment of teachers not only to their work, but also to their freedom of expression and independence. So I don't really see what this article can do. We very much want it to be modified to appease the educational community.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u71	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u72	Far from being abstract, talkative or useless, Article 1e emphasises precisely a dimension that has been weakened in recent years, to the point of weakening itself: the trust that must prevail between teachers and the educational community, on the one hand, and students and their parents, on the other. This has been noted by all teachers. However, without a bond of trust, one cannot educate properly. I thank the Minister for putting this article at the beginning of the text. This is a major issue. [[Applause on several benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] I am absolutely not shocked by the terms "engagement" and "exemplarity". If one engages as a teacher and has the vocation, one is aware, it seems to me, that commitment and exemplaryness are inherent in the function of teaching. Having teachers who have shown commitment and exemplaryness is precisely encouraging us to embrace this career.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u73	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u74	We are looking at the articles of the bill for a school of trust in terms of the commitment of educational staff. Each and every one of us here knows what he owes to the school of the Republic as well as to his teachers and, often, to his mistresses. We must all pay tribute to them. I am a Member of Parliament for the ninth constituency of the French abroad, which brings together the Maghreb and West African countries. I must admit that the bond of trust between our schools abroad and the school of the Republic in metropolitan France is gradually breaking. More and more seconded teachers are being denied renewal due to the reduction in the number of positions. The result in these territories is a decline in the Republic's relations with our fellow citizens. There are 3.5 million French people living abroad. They bring our country to the world. They are the soldiers of our economic power in the world. [[Bertrand Pancher and Jeanine Dubie applaud]] They call for quality schools in the Republic, guaranteeing educational excellence. It must be noted, however, that the State is gradually shrinking. We expect strong signals of the restoration of the bond of trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u75	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u76	Like others here, I came from the school of the Republic. Article 1, which evokes trust, hurt me. My teachers were still called the Hussards of the Republic. Very committed, they didn't count their hours and organized activities on Thursdays – I'm from a time when there was no class on Thursdays!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u77	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u78	[[Smile]] Me, it was Wednesday!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u79	In the evening, after class, they helped us do our homework and organized activities. They often fought in the secular friendly towns and villages. They were committed activists. At present, these same teachers would be committed to the protection of the environment, considering that this is a key issue and that the education of children should invite them to campaign for this cause with a view to improving the climate. The same would ask themselves: "What have we missed? It took four generations to operate the social elevator, and now it takes six. What made that number go back? Is that the fact that teachers are no longer campaigning? It seems to me that many teachers felt that they could just do their job and that they were no longer actors in society or activists. The institution has taken them to this concept of their function, encouraging them to take a step backwards. Minister, the future, it seems to me, will be made of teachers considering that their employment is an essential issue for the functioning of democracy and the Republic, and deducing that they must play a militant role. Even if they speak on social networks or elsewhere, they must be trusted. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Moreover, in our towns and villages of old, they were politically engaged, as secretaries general of town halls – especially in small towns – or as elected officials. We must show a will of this order. In your bill, I read the will to neutralize them, which I do not think is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u80	On the contrary! It aims for excellence and trust!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u81	We come to the amendments. I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 324, 527, 693 and 1014, to delete the article. Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to support Amendment No. 324.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u82	It is intended to help the minister, who was asking for help earlier. Let's delete the article! Minister, you are bogged down – if you will allow me the expression. You want to restore confidence and, as of Article 1, you create distrust. Frankly, we don't understand anything! You yourself assert that the provisions of Article 1 will have no normative effect. Yet you are obstinate. Beware: Perseverance is a virtue, obstinacy is a defect. What is the point of Article 1, if not to attack an official who would damage the reputation of the public service? Suddenly, we are interested in the debate. Is that the stakes? Ensure that no public servant harms the reputation of the public service? But what is commitment? In my constituency, teachers are on strike. Is this a form of commitment to the defence of public service? I think so, and I congratulate them! [[Sabine Rubin and Jean-Paul Lecoq applaud.– Rires on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LR groups]] Their hierarchy, on the contrary, often blames them for their mobilization. How will you decide? Where's the commitment? What is more beautiful than a teacher on strike, losing hours of salary for the defense of the school or college?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u83	I know more beautiful things!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u84	Isn't that the most beautiful commitment? How will you appreciate it? You make a monster, minister, without knowing what will result! Fortunately, these teachers are there to mobilize, even though the authority often expects from them an attitude of resignation and blessed-yes-yes – "Most importantly, do not mobilize! " We are well aware that many job creations and resources have been achieved in schools through mobilizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u85	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u86	You create distrust. The argument that you put forward, both of you, is merely accrediting my remarks. What is trust? What is exemplaryity? From the normative and legislative point of view, nothing! Finally – this is the teacher in professional high school, with twenty-two years of experience, who speaks – will your text help us for a second if a teacher is attacked or a parent of a humiliated student? Not at all! Legislation already exists to punish the aggression of a teacher or pupil. As far as parents assaulting a teacher are concerned, there are already – fortunately – legislative provisions to sanction them. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Minister, you sometimes have the impression, to hear you, that you are discovering the world of education, which already benefits – even if teachers are involved in a difficult profession – from a legislative framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u87	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u88	The text is talkative and useless. He creates distrust. Take it off, it'll be easier!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u89	Without shouting, it works too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u90	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 527.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u91	Many of us have said this: this article 1 sets the tone of the whole law; and, back to the announcement made by the title, it is a tone of distrust towards the teachers – as if there was confusion between the responsible performance of a mission and blind obedience, as if there was this old confusion between the civil servant-subject and the civil servant-citizen. For our part, we are resolutely making the choice of the second, which must be able to express itself. I will recall the hashtag "no waves", which showed how much it was necessary for teachers to speak more! The pressure that this Article 1 will exert can, I believe, endanger teachers' missions. The subjective terms that are used here can be understood as a will to crack down on teachers, even though insult or defamatory speech in the exercise of missions can already be sanctioned by law. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The teacher is the designer of his profession; His freedom of opinion and expression must be complete. In fact, teachers are, in the course of their profession, questioned by students on beliefs, opinions; Every day, they manage to provide answers. If trust has a meaning, it must be this one: to rely on the ability of teachers to discern, as well as on the visceral respect for the freedom of the students who move them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u92	I call Mr Regis Juanico to support Amendment No. 693.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u93	To delete Article 1e r would be a welcome step of wisdom: the Council of State itself notes in its opinion that this Article has no normative scope, i.e. it is superfluous. That the first article of a bill is also openly criticized by the Council of State is quite new! In addition, this article worries the teachers, and is unanimous against him. It was perceived as a sign of a desire to put teachers at a standstill, to limit their freedom of expression. This feeling of distrust was reinforced by the impact assessment, which states that these provisions "can thus be invoked... in disciplinary cases involving national education personnel who have been guilty of acts violating the reputation of the public service". The objective is clear: it is a matter of generalizing the duty of reserve, which applies today only to the cadres of national education. You say, however, that this is just a reminder. There is confusion about the very scope of this article! You made a commitment to rewrite it; It was amended in committee by the mere addition of a reference to the 1983 Law on the Rights and Obligations of Officials. On the substance, this article feeds the concerns, and on the form, it has nothing to do with a piece of legislation: we therefore ask you to delete it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u94	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1014.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u95	Clause 1 of the bill we are debating speaks volumes on the density of the entire text. It could be described as a single term: "inadequate". Frankly, I am sorry to say so, because we were all waiting for this text full of promises that made a lot of talk about it. Instead, we are served with a section 1 which has nothing to do with what is expected of a piece of legislation, and which is just good to be included in the explanatory memorandum. The Council of State pointed out this in its opinion: "While these provisions express some of the indisputable values around which the republican school is built, they themselves do not produce any legal effect and reiterate general obligations arising from the status of civil servants as well as specific laws, if any, with criminal sanctions. » The Council of State continues: "The Constitutional Council deduces from article 6 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 1789 that the law is intended to lay down rules and, as a result, censor the provisions clearly devoid of any normative scope". Therefore, it was not necessary to keep it in the body of the text. Perfectly in accordance with the analysis of the Council of State – this is not always the case – I ask for the deletion of this article which does nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u96	Mrs Anne-Christine Lang, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u97	I am unsurprisingly against the deletion amendments. In my view, this is an important article, a preamble, an introduction, a declaration of the principles that irrigate the whole text and, more broadly, the whole education system. It does not alter the bond of trust, as I have heard; On the contrary, it reinforces it. It sets out values: trust and mutual respect that must prevail among actors in educational communities; respect by all for the institution, its principle and its functioning; consideration for teachers, but also for parents and pupils. I hear this article would be incongruous! But it is about cohesion here, about cohesion around common knowledge and values. This is the meaning of the title of Chapter I: "The commitment of the educational community" – the commitment of all to more trusting, harmonious, soothing relationships, which will reduce violence and improve the well-being of students in schools, thus promoting success. The Council of State, which has been quoted a lot, says: "These provisions express some of the indisputable values around which the republican school is built. Unfortunately, these undisputed values are being challenged! We have heard that the normative value of this article is low. Maybe! But reread all the major laws on school: not all articles have a strong normative scope, you will have to agree. These laws also have symbolic scope; They express a philosophy, they explain the contract that binds the nation with its school. We have heard that the purpose of this article is to strengthen teacher control and the sanctions that can be imposed on teachers. That's not the case! This text creates no additional obligation, no new sanction, as the Council of State states: these provisions "reiterate general obligations arising from the status of civil servants". In order to remove the ambiguities and ease the concerns, I have tabled in committee an amendment which has been adopted, which states that the commitment and exemplaryness referred to here must be understood in accordance with the law of 13 July 1983 on the rights and obligations of officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u98	The teachers really didn't need that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u99	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u100	I say it with a little sadness: the discussion on this article 1 is particularly significant. I agree, of course, with all the arguments put forward by the rapporteur, and I invite you to consider all the laws on education: all, as you will see, make a much greater place than this one in articles of principle. Yes, I fully assume that we have allowed ourselves to write an article in principle at the beginning of this text. This article talks about trust. By listening to those who oppose it, how can we not see the crisis of distrust that our country is experiencing, a crisis that one or another loves to endure? There is, I think, something very serious. I see some sort of sacred union between Mr. Corbière and Mrs. Ménard...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u102	What an old string!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u103	What a truth, especially!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u104	... or a few others of the speakers who spoke. You don't want to grab your hand out!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u105	That's not what we said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u106	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You don't want to hear a speech of trust! I hear what you're saying: trust is not decreed. And I do not claim that this article 1 will, by magic, create it. On the other hand, hand stretched after hand stretched out, we try to set in motion a virtuous circle. But you don't want it, you can see it, you can feel it in each of your interventions! Mrs. Tolmont, I will start from your speech to show it. You're saying we haven't changed this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u107	On the bottom, no.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u108	That is not correct, as the rapporteur pointed out: we have added a reference to the law on the status of the civil service, so that it is clear that we are not making any changes to the duty of reserve for civil servants. That's very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u109	Why keep the article, since it's useless?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u110	There are things that are either true or false. Have we changed the article? Yes. You can't say otherwise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u111	You haven't changed anything on the bottom!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u112	There are things that can be discussed, but to say that we have changed the article is a factual truth. Anyone can check it, like the supervisory rates of Mr. Di Filippo's department.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u113	This is a minor change, which in no way alters the meaning!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u114	You are also saying that the Council of State is asking us to delete Article 1. It's playing on an ambiguity. The Council of State contests the relevance of the insertion of the article for reasons that are contrary to those that you state: it considers that its normative scope is too low. This argument can be debated; It is indeed an article of principle. However, the opinion of the Council of State cannot be relied upon to claim that this article will affect the freedom of expression of civil servants. That's absolutely not true! The Council of State, in a way, says the opposite: these provisions "express some of the indisputable values around which the republican school is built [...] and reiterate general obligations arising from the status of civil servants as well as from specific laws".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u115	You have to read everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u116	We cannot be more clear: if the Council of State has a reproach for us, it is that of stating an obvious fact. We can discuss it. But he does not say anywhere that we are changing the rules of the civil servants' duty of reserve. Then why do you want people to believe this? Why run this kind of campaign? All I am saying, Madam Member, is very verifiable: on this and other matters, those who are present at our debates, as well as those who will read them, will be able to get an idea of the good faith of each other. I come to your third statement: this article would have raised shields among teachers. Perhaps you read too often some newspapers that try to make it believe; If that were true, we wouldn't be here today! I see teachers every day, and I can tell you that they are proud of this word, "exemplarity"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u117	That's not what they tell us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u118	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] If you are told tomorrow that Members must be exemplary, you too will be proud of it! It is for this reason that the first law passed by this majority concerned the exemplary nature of the deputies! Well, I, who's a professor, if I'm told that teachers must be exemplary, I'm proud to be a professor. I come to your fourth assertion, which is perhaps the worst of all: you have worried about my reference to Jules Ferry. Jules Ferry! It seems to me that the President of the Republic who preceded the present, and which you supported, inaugurated his mandate by giving a speech before the statue of Jules Ferry. If you consider that any reference to Jules Ferry should be prohibited because he was talking about the pride of public servants, but also about the rights and duties of the public service, then it will be, and I am sorry, a line of division between you and me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u119	What a caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u120	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For my part, I will always refer to Jules Ferry, and I am proud that his bust is in the Ministry of National Education. There may be some historical fidelities you should think about.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u121	We are faithful to freedom of expression!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u122	You're truncating my words!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u123	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Let us pay attention to the logics we adopt. Yes, we want to build trust; Yes, there is a stretched hand, which everyone can grasp. That will be true for this article as for others. But if you pretend to understand something other than what is written, you get into the camp of those who want to maintain distrust at all costs. Because it comes from this government, from this majority, so should we say no to everything? It is this reflex that unites you, from left to right. And that's not the best thing to see on such an important subject. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] Mrs. Victory, you're saying that if we're talking about exemplaryity, it's because we don't trust the teachers. I do not think exactly the opposite: the affirmation of exemplaryness is a signal of confidence. The dignity of the professor is, in my view, an essential element of our society; The professor must be at the centre of society, I've said it dozens of times. The affirmation of exemplaryness is at the service of this dignity. Teachers have rights and duties, and they readily admit it – I know for meeting dozens of them. It is true that one might believe the opposite to read some newspapers or to hear some Members...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u124	What newspapers do you think we should read?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u125	I said at the beginning of this sitting: it is striking that the debate sometimes focuses on the accessory to the risk of abandoning the essentials. I then provided you with a key – as in the police movies where the solution of the riddle is announced from the beginning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u126	[[Smile]] This is Detective Columbo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u127	This key is that the second sentence of the second paragraph of Article 1 was more important than the first. But the discussion was only about this one! No one has commented on the second sentence, which is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u128	The problem is there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u129	It is indeed in this sentence that we are talking about mutual respect within the educational community – which responds, Mrs Ménard, to the events that your city unfortunately experienced last week. In this regard, I thank Mr. Chouat for his testimony and, in a great moment of truth, for describing the daily reality of our schools, colleges and high schools, faced with problems of aggression and violence. Yes, we must call for mutual respect for all members of the educational community. Such an issue should in fact lead to the unity of national representation. It is sad to see that this is not the case, but I am not. Yet this is a subject that concerns the daily life of the teachers, who can only agree with my remarks and find those who challenge them staggered.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u130	They need training, not a new law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u131	Too often, in fact, they suffer disrespect from members of the educational community. The second sentence implicitly refers to this situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u132	Article 1 won't change anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u133	This article may therefore serve as a point of support. This article in principle, and assumed as such – what is called a standard, in law, Mr. Hetzel – will provide the administrative judge with a benchmark for the development of his case law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u135	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Does this article change the rights and duties of civil servants? No. The statement added in committee explicitly affirms this. Is this a communication article? If that were the case, Mr Di Filippo, we should revisit the entire legislative history of France! If you think that all the articles of principle have a purpose of communication, it is that you do not know what a principle is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u136	We quoted the precise words!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u137	We have seen how the principle of the exemplary Republic is applied!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u138	Will we be dying like this all week?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u139	Mrs Catherine Osson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u140	I, too, would like to give the testimony of a teacher, who suffers that the duty of reserve is not respected by some colleagues. Mr Corbière, you say that we are rediscovering the world of education. I feel like you're rediscovering the union! I was a teacher until the eve of my election.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u141	One more!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u142	I have always been able to express myself in the trade union context, without ever mixing the two universes. I am therefore proud to vote for this article in principle, proud to have endorsed a teacher's costume while respecting my duty as a reserve. I was a teacher in my classroom, a director in my office. Outside school, I could express myself and take on political mandates at the same time. I've never mixed the genres. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] I won't be here today if I didn't respect my duty as a reserve. When some do not respect it, the first to suffer are those of their colleagues who would like to work calmly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u143	That's clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u144	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u145	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Elsa Faucillon also applauds]] What we are challenging, minister, is not so much the substance of the provisions as their form: they have nothing to do in the law. In fact, you yourself admit it, Madam rapporteur, by speaking of "preamble", of "introduction". Let them be included in the preamble, but they do not belong to Article 1! You also said that this article did not add any additional obligations. So, what's it for? Of course, it sets out principles to which we agree, but which should come in the introduction of the bill. You mentioned, Minister, the opinion of the Council of State: "If these provisions express some of the indisputable values around which the republican school is built, they themselves do not produce any legal effect and reiterate general obligations arising from the status of civil servants as well as specific laws, if any, with penal sanctions. But you make no mention of the following paragraph, in which the Council of State states that it does not maintain in the bill "provisions which, on the other hand, have their full place in its explanatory statement. I'm not the one saying it! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Furthermore, as I asked in my statement on the article, if the judge should apply the provisions of Article 1, how can he assess whether teachers show such respect and confidence? Let the Government propose a clear text that will enable it to decide!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u146	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1010.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u147	I would like to reassure you, minister: I do not have much in common with Mr Corbière, except for a love for the city of Béziers, which is so beautiful. This amendment should convince you, unless you are in bad faith, what I cannot believe – even if there is reason to doubt your truncated quotations from the opinion of the Council of State. In addition, since you have spoken of a "stretch hand", you will no doubt be in favour of this withdrawal amendment, which recalls that the primary function of the school is to educate and pass on knowledge. It is indeed this transmission, if it is effective, that will restore the bond of trust between students, their families and the educational community. The proposed text also emphasises the authority which the school, therefore its teachers, must exercise in the context of their teaching mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u148	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u149	Unfavorable opinion. The primary mission of the school is to teach. To impose punishment or disciplinary sanctions is not the primary task of the staff of the educational community, even if they are sometimes forced to do so. The school is above all a place of learning, of openness, of culture. I therefore do not believe that it is desirable to include the notion of authority in the first articles of the Education Code, although it is an intrinsic part of the teachers' magisterium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u150	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 592.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u151	You stated that the main purpose of Article 1 was to establish principles. But in its current wording – and it is likely that it will be adopted as it is – it essentially merely reminds the educational community of certain duties. For our part, we propose to include also an important right of teachers, that of educational freedom – it is not only a right, but also a responsibility and a democratic necessity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u152	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u153	Unfavorable opinion. The educational freedom of teachers is already guaranteed in article L. 912-1-1 of the Education Code, as the amendment itself indicates. He is therefore satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u154	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u155	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u156	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u157	Your answer surprises me, rapporteur. The amendment which you have adopted in committee to justify the retention of Article 1e r had the exact effect of supplementing this article with elements already contained in the Education Code. I am merely proposing to mention others, in order to find a balance between rights and duties. Since you refused to mention educational freedom, you could not use the reference to the law of 13 July 1983 to oppose the deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u158	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u159	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor to support Amendment No. 899.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u160	It is intended to add the word "benevolence" to Article 1e. Benevolence, a favourable disposition for someone, is the opposite of laxism and authoritarianism. The staff of the educational community play a fundamental role in the foundation of our society. They are landmarks for our children and participate fully in their construction, alongside the parents. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to emphasize the importance of pedagogical benevolence in the school of the Republic, and to include it in the education code as one of the foundations of education. If the school offers training, it also allows the child to learn as an individual. It is therefore essential that the school of the Republic develop for the child an atmosphere that promotes reflection, self-confidence, self-esteem, the pleasure of discovering and learning. As stated in the Education Code, schools "encourage the development of the child, enable him or her to acquire a culture, prepare him or her for working life and for the fulfilment of his or her responsibilities as a man and as a citizen. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u161	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u162	Unfavorable opinion. We are all committed to the benevolence of teachers, the foundation and the sine qua non of learning. However, this notion, which falls within the psychological sphere, does not seem to have its place in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u163	Oh, no! Mr. Minister will not agree with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u164	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u165	On behalf of the same arguments, I would ask you, Madam Member, to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u166	Mr Cinieri, if you will, I suggest that you present together Amendments Nos 60 and 62, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u167	Good to see you, Madam President. The first amendment is intended to recall that mutual respect must prevail in institutions. It is necessary to foster the climate of trust necessary for the development and success of each student. The second recalls that the authority of the educational community must be a pillar of the Republican school. Writing it in the law made it possible to reaffirm the legitimacy of our teachers, who sometimes face young people who lack benchmarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u168	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u169	Unfavorable opinion. If I am in favour of including the concept of mutual respect in this article, the wording you are proposing concerns only respect between staff. I therefore prefer to him the drafting of the La République en marche group, which evokes the mutual respect between all members of the educational community.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u170	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u171	On the substance, I fully agree: the notion of mutual respect is essential and we wish to affirm it more strongly. However, for the reasons just mentioned by the rapporteur, I suggest that you withdraw these amendments in favour of Amendment No 923, which amends not the first sentence of paragraph 2, but the second sentence, in order to arrive at a more appropriate and clearer wording.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u172	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 572.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u173	The example of Jules Ferry would be a beautiful subject of dissertation. I will gladly lend him some virtues, but at this hour I prefer not to engage in such a debate. We could also discuss the pedagogical virtues of the example as well as the counter-example, but I would not venture further. Every citizen has a duty of exemplaryness. In rereading this text, I confirm the diagnosis made by the Council of State of its low normative scope, in other words of an impreciseness that leaves room for all interpretations and questions: is it a question of presenting teachers as superheroes? What does the example relate to?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u174	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u175	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LR and GDR groups]] Let me answer by reading a few lines of literature – I know you will be sensitive to it. We are in 1957, Albert Camus has just received the Nobel Prize for Literature, here is the letter he sent on November 19 to Louis Germain, his teacher: "I have just been given a far too great honour, which I have neither sought nor asked for. But when I heard the news, my first thought, after my mother, was for you. Without you, without that loving hand that you stretched out to the poor little child that I was, without your teaching, and your example, none of this would have happened. I don't make a world of this kind of honor. But this is at least an opportunity to tell you what you have been, and are always for me, and to make sure that your efforts, your work, and the generous heart you put there are still alive in one of your little schoolchildren who, despite age, has not ceased to be your grateful student. That is what we mean by example. What a pride!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u176	Thank you, Madam rapporteur, for recalling this beautiful letter from Camus. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u177	It is difficult for me to express myself after these words that are among the most beautiful I know. I thank the rapporteur for quoting them. [[Smile. – Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Mr. Corbière asked us earlier if there was anything more beautiful than a teacher on strike. We have just had a fine example. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u178	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 534.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u179	This amendment is intended to add the term "mutual" to the term "trust" referred to in the first sentence of the second paragraph. This adjective makes it possible to emphasize that trust is established in both directions. Section 1 sets out principles that form the basis for the student's success and well-being within the school. Trust must be mutual, which in no way prevents the teacher from expressing himself. Certainly, trust does not decree, but why forbid writing what is so important?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u180	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u181	As long as it binds the various actors, trust is necessarily mutual. I prefer the wording of Amendment No 923, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, which refers to mutual respect. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u182	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u183	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u184	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to support Amendment No. 290.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u185	This amendment is intended to remind the staff of the educational community of their duty to respect the Republic, its institutions and the functioning of democracy. Teachers are on the front line to pass on this conquered heritage of high struggle and, in short, fragile. Respecting institutions is, of course, respect for school, but it is first and foremost respect for the Republic because it is the mother of free, compulsory and secular schools. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is not a question of questioning freedom of expression or freedom of opinion. More than a duty, it should be a pride to defend the Republic and its institutions for those who must prepare young children for full citizenship. The news of recent months and the comments read on social networks show that it is not pointless to recall this: respect for the functioning of the Republic is a condition for maintaining the confidence of families. Everyone should be intransigent on this matter if we are to maintain the cohesion of society around the values of the Republic. The respect and love of the Republic would have their full place in the preamble of the law for a school of trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u186	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u187	The respect of the Republic and the institutions imposed on each official, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u188	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u189	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u190	I have before me two amendments, Nos 694 and 15, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mrs Pau-Langevin to support Amendment No. 694.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u191	Through this amendment, we intend to develop the idea of a school of trust. I agree with the rapporteur on the dignity of the teaching profession. As students, we have all had to deal with teachers who have enabled us to understand the world in which we live, and who have opened our minds. On these benches there are not those who know teachers and those who do not know them. We all have memories of teachers whom we respect and are all aware of their role in society. [[Michel Larive and Sylvie Tolmont applaud]] But if once teachers felt unanimously respected and could rely on the trust of their fellow citizens, today they have more states of soul. We must convince them of the nation's respect for them. To do this, you have to revalue their work. By providing them with a satisfactory standard of living and the conditions for the exercise of their profession improved, it may no longer be necessary to write in the texts that their profession is important. If we want more teachers, let's tackle their salaries. Let us open this debate to which the ministry is in a position to respond.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u192	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u193	In order for the commitment of the teachers you regularly refer to to to be full and complete, it is necessary to improve the attractiveness and improve the teaching profession. With this in mind, the amendment aims to take into account certain tasks carried out, other than education. In committee, Minister, you argued that a project on this subject was under way. We would like to know more about your intentions with regard to upgrading, otherwise the school of trust would be nothing but vain words. There is a real expectation in this matter. Red pens have been carrying legitimate claims for several weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u194	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u195	Mr President, I agree with you that revalorisation is a legitimate claim. I believe, however, that this is not part of the education code, which is why I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u196	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u197	On the substance, we can agree: upgrading as well as taking into account the time of teachers outside the class are subjects that deserve our attention. However, they are not the subject of this law, and they do not fall within the legislative sphere. They are part of our social agenda and will be dealt with in this framework, not in this law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u198	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u199	This amendment is the only tool available to us to open the debate and discuss with the Government – that is what is commonly referred to as appeal amendments. We would be prepared to withdraw such an amendment if the Minister specified his intentions and made a commitment on behalf of the Government to upgrade the teaching profession and ensure its attractiveness. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You ask us to trust you, but we want proof that we can grant it to you. I maintain this amendment because, obviously, we do not receive one.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u200	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u201	I am replying to you, Mr President, so as not to give you the impression that I am being stolen, but I repeat, this law does not purport to solve all the problems of national education. Thousands of topics could be addressed in our discussions. You cannot blame me for not doing so because, on the one hand, it is impossible and, on the other hand, it would turn us away from the path of this law. The question is not awkward, but to take up the register of one of your colleagues, it is out of the question. A social dialogue between the Directorate of Human Resources and the trade union organisations has been under way since April. The issues you raise are addressed in this context. The discussions allow us to clarify what we mean by the management of local human resources, which for me represents one of the very important developments in national education in the time to come. I have had the opportunity to say this in committee, which is through departmentalization, i.e. by entrusting more skills to the academic directors of the national education services – the DASEN – and even to achieve a sub-departmental vision. The objective is to achieve a more personalised human resources management, more attentive to the specificity of each individual and offering a vision of the career. Yes, this paves the way for greater recognition of all the actions of a teacher over the course of a week – the duty of service is, in fact, far more than the only hours of instruction. Yes, a reflection, the consequences of which will be of a regulatory nature, is under way on this point. It is transparent – it gives rise to regular news releases from the specialised press. Yes, 2019 will be an important year for progress in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u202	I call Mr Aleksandr Freschi to support Amendment No. 923.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u203	I hope that it will be voted on on all sides of the House. It tends to introduce a reference to "mutual respect among members of the educational community". It is important to ensure the coordination of all members of the educational community in schools: pupils, teachers, school staff and institutions, accompanying pupils with disabilities, parents of pupils, local authorities, institutional, economic and social actors associated with the public service of education. The amendment thus aims at anchoring in the law the reciprocity of the ties that unite the members of the educational community. The school of trust depends on mutual respect and on the obligations shared by all the actors concerned. By insisting on the notion of mutual respect, we would value each of them, regardless of their profession, place in the school or their situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u204	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u205	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u206	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u207	It seems to me that your amendment makes matters clear, Mr Freschi. What you have just said corresponds to what we want to do with this bill. Indeed, to set in motion the virtuous circle of trust is to set in motion the virtuous circle of mutual respect. This is what we mean by the expression "reading, writing, counting, and respecting others." It must be very clear that everyone must respect everyone, that everyone must respect everyone. This must be, in a way, the golden rule of the educational community. If your amendment makes it even clearer, so much the better. I therefore, in turn, express a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u208	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u209	I understand that the amendment provides a clarification. However, what is meant by the term "respect" should also be clarified, Mr. Minister. Sometimes people feel assaulted while they are being talked to with respect. Right now, minister, I'm talking to you with respect, and you don't feel assaulted, do you? But there are people who feel assaulted when I speak to them in this way; They say I'm disrespectful of them. Sometimes some say that I don't trust them and that I'm disrespectful simply because I addressed them. I therefore invite you to clarify the concept of respect. Since this is a law, it must be clear. In my view, this should not be included in the law, but should be part of teacher training and citizenship education – you are responsible for education, Minister. Since you want to put this in the law, you need to give the judge, in this case the administrative judge, keys to determine whether there has been respect or disrespect. Moreover, I am also sensitive to the idea of benevolence...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u210	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u211	[[Ms. Frédérique Dumas applauds]] Let me go back to the terms "mutual trust" that I proposed earlier. I would like an explanation: why "mutual respect" and not "mutual trust"? Can't both expressions be included in the text? In a law for trust, it is important to introduce the concept of mutual trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u212	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u213	I would like to review one point with Mr Freschi and the other signatories to the amendment: the references and those accompanying children with disabilities, who are health professionals – I am thinking in particular of school doctors – are not mentioned in the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u214	They are part of the educational community!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u215	Of course, but the text specifically mentions a number of actors, including parents. I would like to draw attention to the mission of the professionals I have mentioned to children with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u216	On Article 1, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group, the Unsolicited France Group and the Democratic and Republican Left Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Sebastien Leclerc to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u217	This is again a clear amendment, which you will be happy to accept, Minister. It is intended to clarify that the bond of trust implies respect for students and their families not only with regard to the school institution and all of its staff, but also with regard to all of its buildings. On several occasions in recent years, schools have been ransacked or even burned by children who were there or had been schooled there. Although resentful and criminally and civilly punished, these acts of disrespect towards the buildings of the school institution justify, in our view, that the notion of respect due to the places where education is provided should be added to the obvious need to respect the staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u218	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u219	I am quite reluctant to place staff and buildings on the same level, even if it is appropriate to protect each other. Your amendment also seems to me to be satisfied with the expression "respect for the school institution". My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u220	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u221	In substance, one can only agree with the principle of respect for buildings; Of course, you have to keep it in mind. However, in its present state, the law makes it quite possible to affirm this respect. In addition, there will soon be developments in this area, on a regulatory basis, since the measures we will take to ensure safety at school will most certainly have an impact on the remedy given to the damage you have mentioned. We agree on the objective, but, as we have just indicated, The rapporteur, it is not appropriate to place on the same level the respect due to people and the respect due to buildings. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u222	I put to the vote Rule 1, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u223	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 84 Number of votes cast 66 Absolute majority 34 For adoption 52 Against 14
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u224	I have before me a number of amendments on the additional article after Article 1. Amendments Nos 105, 104 and 211 may be subject to joint discussion. On Amendments Nos 105 and 104, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 105.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u225	With these amendments, Minister, we want to offer you the opportunity to bring your actions into line with your words. We often agree – for my part, in any case – with the diagnosis you are delivering and with the right words you speak, but we expect equally fair and strong answers and actions. These amendments concern two subjects that you have raised in a relevant way: violence in schools and school absenteeism. Here we propose solutions that have proved their worth. You are better placed than anyone to know, since you were responsible for school education at the time when the law of 28 September 2010 to combat school absenteeism, which bears my name, was applied. This evening, we propose that you put the content of this law at the heart of our preventive and accountability mechanisms, as you have rightly mentioned in the press. The aim of Amendment No 105 is to tackle violence, a scourge which unfortunately continues to spread. In order to avoid the rise of violence, it tends to re-establish a balanced system that reminds each of the actors of their rights and duties, in particular the essential notion of parental authority, enshrined in our civil code. This arrangement, known as the "contract of parental responsibility", had proved its worth before the law of 28 September 2010 was repealed. As the name indicates, this contract reminded parents of their duties and rights. The scheme allowed for situations of difficulty to be taken care of, by providing parents with balanced, appropriate and proportionate support, while ensuring that they respected the essential principle of parental authority. In the department that I chaired for nine years, we had put in place more than 500 parenting contracts at the time. This had been very effective; We had achieved very good results. The socialists, in their blind dogmatism, had my law repealed. It was Mrs Pau Langevin who then sat on the bench of ministers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u226	I haven't changed my mind!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u227	At the same time as the scheme encouraging parents to assume their responsibility, it has removed the accompanying scheme, so that today there is no longer any notion of contract or of balance. Listening to you, minister, I think you agree with what we are proposing. Maybe you're going tonight to listen to the opposition. It is time to tackle effectively, concretely and pragmatically two scourges that you know well and whose symptoms you have described. Violence and absenteeism must no longer be allowed to flourish in our education system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u228	I consider that you have also defended Amendment No 104, Mr Ciotti.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u229	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u230	You have greatly exceeded your speaking time. You will be able to speak again once the committee and the Government have given their opinion on the amendments. On Amendment No 211, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Maxime Minot has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u231	"I do not change my opinion on the subject: I am rather in favour of this practice"; "Students, who have been able to express some reluctance, [...] are now unanimous and even proud of their uniform. These are the words you spoke in committee, minister. Let me go back to the burden, because I am convinced by this measure, like many of my colleagues in the Republican Group, and I have felt a certain interest, if not a certain interest, in you. Far from proposing a common outfit for all the establishments, I propose to let them... Oh, my God, I'm sorry, that's not the amendment that's called!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u232	No, he's the one!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u233	[[Smile]] You really wanted to talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u234	[[Smile]] I was actually very impatient... But we will come to it, minister, and I will have you! [[Mr. Dino Cinieri and Ms. Marie-France Lorho applaud]] Absenteeism is a scourge and a huge challenge for the school of the Republic, which we must look at in the face, without misconception or dogmatism. Unfortunately, the previous majority did exactly the opposite: it made the renunciation and the policy of excuse work to the full by repealing the law of 28 September 2010, as Éric Ciotti just recalled. I believe, on the other hand, in parental authority. I think parents always have a role to play. They must be involved in cases of drop-out or violence at school. That is why I propose to re-establish the parental responsibility contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u235	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u236	With these amendments, you propose to reinstate the parental liability contract in the event of disrespectful behaviour towards the values of the Republic, and the possibility of suspending the payment of family allowances in the event of recidivism. As you know, a report was given to our colleague Stéphane Testé, as well as to Mrs Agnès Le Brun, Mayor of Morlaix, and to Mrs Béatrice Gille, rectrator of the Occitanie academic region, on the protection of the school. Their conclusions and recommendations will cover all aspects of school violence, which no one underestimates, as well as the penalties to be imposed on students. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] That is why, while proposing that you postpone the debate after the report has been submitted, I express an unfavorable opinion on the three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u237	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u238	On all the benches of this assembly, I think, at least, the diagnosis is shared: we must fight both absenteeism and school violence. We must look at these problems, which are very real. They must also be distinguished, because absenteeism and violence are two different subjects that we will have to deal with differently. However, as the rapporteur pointed out, the process of responding is already under way. The events of the beginning of November, which sparked the No Wave movement, caused a well-understood emotion throughout the country: this aggression shocked the whole of France. Even before the attack, we had begun to take action to combat violence in schools, based on the census of reports. By taking the various cases of violence mentioned, the ministry is working on the answers to be provided. From the beginning of December, I took the first steps. They tend to provide every case of violence with a systematic response and equally systematic support to the teachers concerned. A scale of appropriate sanctions has also been drawn up which must be varied and proportionate in order to be educational and effective. We have therefore begun to act on the regulatory front. As the rapporteur pointed out, we have also commissioned a report from Mr Stéphane Testé here, to Ms Béatrice Gille and Mrs Agnès Le Brun, Mayor of Morlaix and Vice-President of the Association of Mayors of France. They should give us their conclusions later this month, which will allow us to take action before the end of February. It is true that the submission of the report has been rejected: the subject is complex. For example, in the area of violence, it involves addressing both institutional safety, family responsibility and support for parenting, and the difficult issue of creating specific structures for students with very violent behaviours – polyexcluded. Each of these three topics is very technical. With regard to the attitude we should adopt towards families, I refuse to anticipate the conclusions of a report which has not yet been submitted to us and, of course, to prejudge decisions which will be the subject of inter-ministerial discussions, since several ministries are involved. Nevertheless, we have stated from the beginning that the measures we will take will have a twofold dimension: support for parenting and punishment, simply because the philosophy that drives us is pragmatism. Each case should be considered as a particular case. We know very well that some families must not be punished but well accompanied in their parenting, while others who, despite many warnings, make no effort to get out of their situation, deserve to be punished. What sanctions? It is still too early to say so, especially since this is not the subject of this text, even though I readily acknowledge with you that it exists. You can be sure we won't erase it. The response will consist of several components, which are currently being developed. The measures will follow the general philosophy I have outlined. I assure you that we will go into their detail in the coming weeks. Opinion against the three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u239	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u240	On this subject, our group will never agree with Mr Ciotti's proposal. We are aware that, in many cases, a strong reaction from the authority, i.e. the public authorities, is necessary, in the face of young people who are unbearable, even violent, and who do not fulfil their obligations. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC group and on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Michel Larive also applauds]] However, why should the sanction be applied primarily to people who are poor? The elimination of family allowances has the effect of making those who are already in need of family allowances even poorer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u241	It's a matter of rights and duties!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u242	Justice is the same for all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u243	Rich people, for whom allocations are not an important budgetary issue, can also be poor educators. They also need the community to take care of them. To punish exclusively those who need family allowances to live does not seem to me to be a good method.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u244	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u245	The departmental council must take care of these children and families to get them back on track. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC and FI groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] My group will never accept this sanction because it is not in relation to the help that should be given in the upbringing of children.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u246	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u247	This debate would probably deserve more time. You have pointed out, Mr Minister, that I have raised two issues, and that is why I have tabled two amendments: one on school violence – a major scourge, you have rightly pointed out – and the other on school absenteeism, which is the first indicator of a young person's dropping out. He is then subject, not to the law of the school, but to the law of the street, with all the drifts that this submission entails. Minister, I am disappointed by your answer. I was full of hope after listening to your statements. But some voices of the majority have been heard, a majority which, to be diverse, is nonetheless very marked, alas! by the ideology that Mrs Pau Langevin has expressed at the moment. However, you had shown interest in a balanced provision which, I know, you measure the relevance of it, as it allows for a better affirmation of both parental authority and responsibility. It consists of entering, not on the path of sanction – that is where the socialists were wrong – but on the path of both greater accountability and deeper, more systematic and permanent support for families. This is the case with the contract of parental responsibility, the mechanism of which is in the hands of the departments for the protection of children. It's an accompanying mechanism, a protective mechanism. But it has been removed in a stupid way. I understand that we do not want to go on the path of suspension of family allowances, which could, in an ideological sense, be treated as a sanction, even if this is not the case. On the other hand, even if one admits by the absurd this reasoning, having removed, as the 2013 law did, the aid scheme is completely illogical. That is why we are asking you tonight to put in place at least the accompanying mechanism. With regard to the effects of the law to combat school absenteeism, you are well aware, Minister, that from September 2011 to April 2012, which was the period of alternation, the academy inspectors made 79,000 reports for barely 600 suspensions of family allowances. This means that 78,000 children have returned on their way to school. This law was therefore effective, not displeased by those who adopt a dogmatic or ideological vision. What matters to us is not to leave this double scourge of violence and absenteeism without a concrete and pragmatic response. I know that, while agreeing with us, minister, you are being held prisoner by certain votes of the majority. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LaREM Group]] Tonight, do not take refuge behind reports that are only made to bury problems and leave them unsolved. Tonight, have the courage to act!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u248	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u249	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the LaRem and MODEM groups]] Apart from the fact that these measures seem not only ineffective but, moreover, revolting, I would like to stress that I have heard several times, on the Republican benches, defend, rightly, the universality of family allowances. Why, then, do you want to give, on the occasion of these measures, a blow to this universality?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u250	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u251	I have been the administrator of the Family Allowance Fund and this subject, because of its seriousness, has often returned to the table. It is because we are deprived of the drop-out and even the violence of some young people. The answers are not easy to provide, even if they may seem obvious from an ideological point of view. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaRem groups as well as on a few benches of the SOC group]] The encounter with families and the knowledge of the relationship difficulties of young people make it clear, on the contrary, that the arrangements to be adopted on the ground can only be complex: the abolition of allowances will therefore not solve the problems. Accompaniment is required. The educational cities will be good answers, because they will establish relationships between the school, the college, the high school and all the associations working on the ground, which will be able to surround the families and help them to be closer to their young people, with a view to countering this type of situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u252	What an ideology!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u253	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u254	Minister, how do you, in the light of your experience and the statements you made before you became a minister, come to speak in the Chamber today? While your experience was in line with the parents' responsibility, mentioned by Mr Eric Ciotti, you are now falling behind the arrival of a report. This is not the first time: when we looked at the bill for a truly inclusive school, you also assured us that you were waiting for a report. I therefore wonder about the timetable. Why are we looking at this bill today for a school of trust? Especially since the topics mentioned by Mr Ciotti are far from being anodized in the life of schools, in particular violence, the phenomenon of which is known and increasingly frequent. How do you manage, on this subject, to this dichotomy between the one you were and the one you became? How do you agree to fall behind ongoing reports which, moreover, do not go in the direction of the general interest? Could we get a precise answer on your change of attitude?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u255	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u256	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u257	Minister, you have been Director General of School Education since 2009; The law in question is that of 2010. Did you approve him back then? If so, why did you change your mind today?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u258	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u259	Once it is not customary, I agree with the minister: violence and absenteeism are two different phenomena, and treatment must be dissociated. With regard to absenteeism, we need to ask ourselves about those children who are phobic in school – there are many – or who are simply very unhappy there. How can the school prove to them, show them that it is also there for them and that it can help them hang on to a horizon, to a goal? That is also a matter of trust, and there is a lot of work to be done in this area. I still have a teenager at home who knows this problem, and I can assure you that there is no point in making parents feel guilty. The aim must be to ensure that these children find a place in school.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u260	It's not about making parents feel guilty!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u261	A little, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u262	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u263	I also want to ask the minister a question. The President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, sent a letter a few weeks ago to the French in which he explained that, in the context of the great national debate, we were going to discuss a number of topics until mid-March. Among these topics, he cited the organization of the State, which includes the organization of the courts and the organization of national education. However, we have recently passed a bill on justice in this House, and we are in the process of discussing the school.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u264	What does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u265	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] What does that have to do with it? We are debating in this House and are adopting bills that are supposed to be discussed, in the framework of the great national debate, by all the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u266	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u267	[[Applause on a few benches in the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] Tonight, it is understood that violence in schools is not dealt with in this bill, on the grounds that a report will be expected in a few days' time. Why don't we wait for this report to look at the bill? And why don't we wait for the end of the great national debate to discuss all these topics calmly?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u268	Everyone knows that the great national debate will be of no use!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u269	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u270	The debate has gone in different directions, so I have to answer many questions at the same time. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I will begin with the end by reacting to Mrs Ménard's comments. The President of the Republic never said that during the great national debate there would be no more activity in Parliament. If that had been the case, I think you would have been married. Moreover, as you yourself have noticed, education is not one of the four axes of this great debate. On the other hand, I have already been led to say publicly that the latter would most likely have consequences for education. This is an additional reason to limit our debate to the scope of the bill. It is our natural slope, however, to want to add new subjects to those we had to discuss initially. I'm here to discuss it very openly. There is therefore no contradiction. Earlier, Mrs. Kuster, you seemed to say that I was stealing. I'll prove you're not. First of all, if I did not, I would not be in front of you today facing the oppositions of the left and the right on all subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u271	It's still your job!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u272	If I were still, if I refused to face all these oppositions, I wouldn't be in front of you tonight! [[Smile]] [[New smiles and applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You also asked me if I had changed. This question may remind us of a song, and I will, by the way, give you the same answer as in the song. By the way, let me remind you of some of the rules applicable to the senior public service, because I think there are serious abuses. I am no doubt one of the former senior public servants most accused of being a senior public servant under a particular government. This reproach was, moreover, underlying in some of your questions. However, when I was Director General of School Education, I was not a Minister of National Education.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u273	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u274	There was then a secretary general of the Ministry of National Education, who held at least as important a position as the director general of school education: he became cabinet director of Mr. Peillon, with whom Ms. Pau-Langevin worked. Was he accused of being Secretary-General under the chairmanship of Mr Sarkozy or under a majority supported by Mr Ciotti?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u275	We've sometimes blamed Mr. Vallaud for that kind of thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u276	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] My predecessor in the position of Director General of School Education became Socialist Vice-President of the New Aquitaine Region. Is he accused of being Director-General of School Education under the chairmanship of Mr Sarkozy? I have another idea of what the senior public service is, and I am not asking for the political opinions of my Director General of School Education. I do not have to report on any decisions that have been made. I was proud to do my job...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u277	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u278	... with loyalty to the government in place, as I continued to do for a few months after the alternation. It's a philosophy of the senior public service that I'm proud of...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u279	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u280	... and which reminds us of some of the elements of the previous debate. I certainly do not have to account for my political opinions at that time. I obviously have a conscience...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u281	I didn't talk about your opinions, but about your commitments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u282	This reproach was underlying in different words...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u283	Not in mine!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u284	...and there is no reason to be. There's nothing aggressive about my words, Mrs. Kuster.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u285	You don't know where you live anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u286	You accuse me, moreover, of stealing from me, of hiding behind a report, and you refer to the famous dialogue on disability, which ended today – it falls well! This morning, therefore, I announced measures on disability at school as has not been the case for a very long time. These measures will probably have a legislative and regulatory translation that we will have the opportunity to discuss at a later stage. I've already quoted The hare and the turtle: I've shown you that we're tracking a straight path and we're doing things at the right pace, that is, without haste. There are very sensitive, very important issues, and I very much agree that this is the case with the problem of violence and absenteeism, as I said to Mr Ciotti. It is precisely because these subjects are very real and important that we do things without haste, in consultation, by analysing and comparing different elements to achieve the right decisions. Of course, we must analyse the advantages and disadvantages of the schemes adopted in the past, whether they are the laws mentioned by Mr Ciotti or the accountability contract. The expected report will tell us what to think about it. Therefore, we will follow the philosophy that I have already outlined to you, which is based on a pragmatic approach. We will take effective action against violence and absenteeism, but this is not the purpose of this bill. I make this commitment to national representation: yes, there will be measures against violence and absenteeism. Yes, they will be pragmatic in that they will be personalized. Yes, we will respond to the issues of accountability and support for families – this is perhaps a point that will suit all the benches of this assembly. It is very important to know how to involve families in the future in the fight against absenteeism and violence. That, in fact, is what we said tonight. I explained earlier that the two success factors of an education system were teacher training and the relationship between parents and teachers, or more broadly, the school institution. The concept of co-education is essential. We must be able to fully empower families, possibly to provide support for parenting, to provide the necessary training, to decide on the need for sanctions. All these subjects are on the table, and the report will allow us to explain them. [[Smiles and applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Talking about a report is not a way of kicking. On disability, this is far from the case; I'm referring you to what I said publicly this morning. No, we won't touch it. Let me conclude as follows: no, I have not changed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u287	[[Smile]] "No, you haven't changed either..."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u288	I put to the vote Amendment No. 105.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u289	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 90 Number of votes cast 86 Absolute majority 44 For adoption 17 Against 69
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u290	I put to the vote Amendment No 104.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u291	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 90 Number of votes cast 86 Absolute majority 44 For adoption 17 Against 69
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u292	I put to the vote Amendment No. 211.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u293	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 90 Number of votes cast 87 Absolute majority 44 For adoption 17 Against 70
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u294	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 695.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u295	Socially mixed schools achieve better success from their students. Building and sustaining this social mix must be a major focus of public policies, as it helps to combat school inequalities. Amendment No 695 is intended to make the objective of social diversity, which is now the responsibility of public institutions, compulsory for private institutions. We believe it is necessary for private education to be fully involved in achieving this objective. The obligation to attend school at the age of three is one way to develop this mix, including in private schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u296	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u297	Thank you, dear colleague, for raising the issue of school mix through your amendment. This is indeed an essential issue, which is increasingly prevalent in a number of academies – including the Paris Academy, of which I am elected – and in the public debate. Personally, I do believe that fostering school and social mix in schools is an issue of social cohesion, that we must avoid as much as possible all that is of the order of the self and promote through the school, social and cultural mix the discovery of otherness, difference and mutual assistance – all the values to which we are attached and which we are trying to promote within the school system. Fostering mix is actually refusing house arrest. This goal is important to us. However, the experiments carried out in various parts of the territory over the past few years have enabled us to draw a number of lessons. On this extremely sensitive subject, nothing can be imposed from above. If we have not taken the time to convince and reach the widest possible consensus on the social composition of schools and the school map, we cannot achieve our objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u298	We'll never do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u299	This also applies to the inclusion of private education in the school map. Dialogue, exchange and force of conviction seem to me to be more effective than coercion. I note, moreover, that this is a subject of regular dialogue between the State and representatives of private education, and that this dialogue has made real progress. I therefore count on the continuation of the dialogue rather than on coercion. I call for the continuation of partnerships and initiatives such as the one recently carried out in Haute-Garonne. I therefore agree with your objective but, as you understand, not with your method. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u300	It would still be good to move on one day!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u301	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 180 and 270. I call Mr Claude de Ganay to support Amendment No. 180.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u302	[[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] In order to ensure true equality among all children in France, without distinction of any kind, schools must bear the values of inclusion, especially for children with disabilities. Therefore, it is proposed to include this value in Article L. 111-1 of the Education Code on the general principles of education.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u303	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 270.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u304	Mr. de Ganay has just defended an identical amendment to introduce the concept of disability and inclusion into the bill. Paragraph 5 of Article L. 111-1 of the Education Code would read as follows: "In order to guarantee this right with respect for equal opportunities, grants are granted to pupils and students according to their resources and merits. The distribution of the resources of the public education service takes account of the differences in the situation, particularly in economic and social matters, and of inclusion. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u305	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u306	You propose that the distribution of the means of the public education service should take into account the differences in the situation of pupils with regard to inclusion. These identical amendments are met by Article L. 112-1 of the Education Code, which states: "In order to fulfil its obligations under Articles L. 111-1 and L. 111-2, the public education service shall provide school, vocational or higher education for children, adolescents and adults with a disability or a disabling health disorder. In its areas of competence, the State shall provide the financial and human resources necessary for the regular schooling of children, adolescents and adults with disabilities. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u307	I call Mrs Pau-Langevin to support Amendment No. 696.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u308	With this amendment, we want to stress the need for an educational continuum in the education of young children aged 0-6. We have just advocated compulsory education from the age of three, but the Defender of Rights, in his 2018 report, stressed the usefulness of this continuum for children, calling for coordination between educational structures, be it nurseries, kindergartens or kindergartens, through the search for links between educational programmes and the joint training of professionals. The text before us proposes a step forward by referring to kindergartens. But it seems to me useful to recall the need for a satisfactory articulation between the various structures in charge of early childhood.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u309	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u310	The educational continuum between 0 and 6 years of age, a subject that is of particular interest to me, is essential if we are to combat early inequalities and provide uninterrupted care for children and families throughout this period. The Government has taken note of this need: this continuum is already on the road map of several authorities responsible for the implementation of early childhood policy, such as the High Council for Children, Family and Age, which advocates this continuum, as well as the departmental plans for family services. Since this continuum has already been taken into account, your amendment is therefore largely satisfactory. On the other hand, it is probably too general in its formulation to be truly operational. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u311	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u312	The spirit of this amendment is very important and I fully understand its inspiration. Together with the rapporteur, we had the opportunity, during the debate in committee, to tell you how crucial the issue for the 0-6 age group was. At the same time, when we referred earlier to compulsory education from three years ago, several Members pointed out that some countries that were doing well at school made education compulsory later. However, when we look at the reality of these countries, such as Estonia or Finland, we find that they have family structures to study, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, an early childhood organisation providing this continuum from 0 to 6 years. We must, with our French particularities, aim at this continuum. This is the work we do with Agnès Buzyn and the Secretary of State for Child Protection, Adrien Taquet. Our roadmap therefore clearly contains this dimension. For all the reasons put forward by the rapporteur and because he is satisfied, I am not in favour of this amendment. Work is done independently of the law. I therefore propose that you withdraw it, otherwise the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u313	Mrs Pau Langevin, do you withdraw this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u314	I maintain it, because it has an incentive vocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u315	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 684, 198 and 117, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 684.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u316	The Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights is France's pride. It is the foundation of our fundamental rights and freedoms and must be passed on to future generations for its spirit to continue. Similarly, our national anthem is part of our common heritage and contributes to the harmony between the citizens of our nation. This song, a symbol of the French Revolution, has been repeated in history on different continents by many revolutionaries. It is therefore essential that it be learned and sung from an early age. I know that these two basic texts are part of the apprenticeships, but we would like to make them mandatory. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u317	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 198.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u318	In order to restore confidence in the school, without tackling today's problems – school violence, absenteeism, disability – the bill must carry the symbols of the Republic high and strong. To supplement my colleague Mr Minot's remarks, it must be noted that in too many establishments, communal attitudes, attacks on authority and demonstrations of rejection of the Republic are increasing. That is why strong measures are needed. The aim of this amendment is therefore to clarify in the Education Code that the Declaration of 26 August 1789 is present in all classes so that schoolchildren and students can permeate the values of this founding text, including respect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u319	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 117.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u320	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u321	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u322	Article 111-1-1 of the Education Code states that "The Declaration of the Rights of the Human and the Citizen of 26 August 1789 is visible on the premises of [...] schools and institutions. Mr Bazin, you propose that this display be made "preferably in the classes", a formulation that seems ambiguous and unscriptural. As for the teaching of La Marseillaise, it is already on the elementary school curriculum. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u323	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u324	It concerns the organization of our meeting. Apart from the fact that the order of the amendments communicated to us this afternoon has changed completely this evening, I do not understand why we are now talking about La Marseillaise when we have to talk about the uniform – that is why Maxime Minot was wrong earlier. We are discussing various amendments on the same subject, which is why I have defended Amendment No 117 by Mr Pauget. I myself have tabled Amendment No 173, which deals with the same subject and which is not in the joint debate. There will therefore be differentiated answers on the theme of teaching the national anthem. I do not understand the course of this session, which is quite illogical.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u325	On the question of change in the order in which the amendments are presented, I can only answer you, Mrs Kuster. The amendments are what they are and we defend them in the order in which they come.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u326	The meeting changed that order: it would be worth an explanation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u327	What is the Government's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u328	Marseillaise and the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights are two very important subjects. The teaching of La Marseillaise is included in the primary school curriculum, as the rapporteur pointed out. From the moment I was appointed, I emphasized the effectiveness of his teaching; In the annual benchmarks, we even specified which verses were to be taught in what years. This clear and clear evolution makes it possible to affirm the importance of the learning of La Marseillaise. In general, I am not in favour of imposing a display in the class. First, this could lead to inflation, as these two texts are not the only important ones. Then, the teacher must remain in charge of the teaching arrangements of his class. Does that mean that we underestimate the stakes? Certainly not, for the reasons I indicated earlier. It is clear that we must ensure that all students sing La Marseillaise at primary school and that all children are aware of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 26 August 1789, which is displayed in all schools – we make sure. For these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable, but I would like to take this opportunity to recall the importance we attach to the effectiveness of their display, not in classes but in schools, as well as their learning, as we have already explained in various texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u329	I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 102.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u330	This amendment seeks to ensure that the French flag is installed in each class of each school in the Republic. After the attacks in our country between 7 and 9 January 2015, which had affected Charlie Hebdo, the Hyper Hider of Vincennes and led to the murder of a young police officer, the government of the time had opportunely demanded, in all the schools of the Republic, the observation of a minute of silence in memory of the victims of these attacks. More than 200 incidents had then been recorded – however, these figures have been deliberately reduced – marked by the refusal of students to observe this minute of silence. This refusal to adhere to the values of the Republic by students was a shock that we took in the face. The present legislative vector offers us today the opportunity to recall the strength and the preeminence of the values of the Republic. The school must transmit knowledge, of course, but also benchmarks and values. These values are first and foremost those of the Republic. We talked about La Marseillaise; We are now talking about the French flag. Today we must reaffirm the need to set on the way of the pupils of the school of the Republic, to erect dykes against the scourges that threaten them, in particular radicalism and Islamism. Adhering to the values of the Republic, making it love, making love the French flag and blackmailing La Marseillaise participate in this desire to restore, within the school of the Republic, the preeminence of the values that have made the strength and greatness of our nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u331	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u332	We share your commitment to the values of the Republic and your willingness to pass them on throughout school. That has been said, La Marseillaise's words are taught at primary school and the education code already provides that the tricolor flag is affixed to the facade of each school. It does not seem to me absolutely necessary that this flag be present in each class in order to pass on to the students the values of the Republic. I believe that teachers are very committed to incorporating in their teaching the values of freedom, equality and fraternity of our Republic. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u333	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u334	This is an extremely important subject, as are all the subjects of this series of amendments. Indeed, the school does not only transmit knowledge, it also transmits values. The school trains future citizens, and this goes through the programmes of moral and civic education, at the very centre of which, more than ever, national emblems and knowledge of the national anthem find their place. That children know the Declaration of Human Rights, that they sing La Marseillaise and that the flag is present in the school is therefore a fundamental objective. As you know, the Education Code already provides for each of these elements at the school level. You propose that they be present at the class level from now on. I am not saying that this is an absurd proposal, but I do not think it is desirable to increase the number of displays in the classroom for obvious practical reasons. On the other hand, we must strive to ensure that students acquire a true knowledge of these elements. However, this does not depend so much on a presence in the classroom as on the curricula and continuing training of teachers, and quite simply on the fact that the inspectors of national education ensure the effectiveness of these apprenticeships. That is exactly the meaning of the instructions I have been able to give since I was in the ministry, in the continuity of the important steps taken during the previous two quinquennats. I have deepened this path, particularly through the annual benchmarks that we have set for primary school. I would therefore say wisdom, because we may have different convictions on this issue. For me, the heart of the question is not whether the flag should be in school or in class. On the other hand – and this is also a commitment I am making to national representation – the effectiveness of the knowledge of the national anthem, the presence of the flag and the knowledge of the Declaration of Human and Citizen Rights is a priority for my ministry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u335	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u336	Thank you for that clarification, Minister. We have already had this debate, particularly at the time of the Peillon Act, and it comes back fairly regularly when it comes to school, both the emblems of the flag and the national anthem are important. It is clear that, at some point in time, a certain formalism, which implies a physical presence, is needed on this subject. Of course, there is a symbolic dimension, but there is also, beyond that, a pedagogical dimension, as you know well. That is why we believe it is important that the triptych Declaration of Human Rights-National Flag-Anthem be taken into account not only by the institution but also physically present in schools. This is not unattainable: you have the possibility at any time to under-amend our proposal, for example by providing for a deadline. We're completely open to it. Closing the door would be a bad policy. It would be a procrastination that we would find difficult to understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u337	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u338	We can always consider that it is enough to display these symbols for things to move forward, but the difficulty is to make sure that students – and adults as well – really appropriate these values of secularism, these values of the Republic. Displaying in schools is not enough – it is already widely done, by the way. What works, on the other hand, is when, through cultural practices often, young people work on these values with their teachers, they decorate them, reshape them in their own way, digest them, so to speak, and really understand them, and they do something about them. It cannot be considered that it is enough to say things for them to work. For this living-together to really work, for the values of the Republic to be understood and accepted, young people need to understand that they can live together and that they do not exclude them. It is really a big job that has to be done with the teachers, starting from the concrete and actions often linked, I repeat, to the artistic practices, which really help the young people to distance themselves while hearing what is happening around them. It's very important.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u339	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u340	For once, I agree with an amendment tabled by my colleagues opposite! We have a network of 500 French high schools around the world. The farther we are from France, the more we have it in our hearts. French students account for about 30% of the workforce in our network; 60-70% are not French, yet they have France at their heart. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We must not be ashamed to have the emblems of the Republic, of France, the tricolor flag in our classes. You have to be proud of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u341	Mr Philippe Folliot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u342	On this subject, in the line of what the minister has just said, we should be able to have a position of wisdom. Let us find ways to agree on an amendment that national representation would unanimously bring, because we can only agree to gather behind these essential symbols, namely the flag, the Declaration of Human Rights and La Marseillaise! In the Children's Parliament, are we not all going to speak to the classes to explain what we are doing as legislators? Aren't we all very committed to defending the notions of civic education and education? If I had a proposal for you, Madam President, it would be to suspend the sitting for a few seconds, to allow the rapporteur, the minister and the authors of the amendment to propose a text that becomes a unanimous message that we can carry collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u343	Mr Freschi, you have the delegation for your group. Are you asking for a session suspension?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u344	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u345	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u346	The meeting was resumed. The president of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u347	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] I ask for a brief suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u348	The suspension is on its own right. I'm suspending the session for a minute.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u349	The meeting was resumed. This is reflected in the proposals made by the Government, with the approval of the first signatory of Amendment No 102. For your approval, Amendment No 102, now corrected, reads as follows: "The presence of the national emblem of the French Republic, the tricolor flag, blue, white, red, of the European flag and the words of the chorus of the national anthem is compulsory in each of the classrooms of the first and second degree establishments, public or private under contract. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u350	Who's gonna pay for this?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u351	You're gonna have to call for tenders?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u352	Flag manufacturers have beautiful days ahead of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u353	What do you want, Mr. Lurton?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u354	The Malouin flag!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u355	The Provençal flag!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u356	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u357	It is important to continue to play the game of openness to parliamentary debate. You have made proposals; they are taken into account. We must succeed in showing that all the elements that we want to pass through moral and civic education are present – hence the affirmation of the presence of the French flag, the European flag and the national anthem. The implementation of this measure does not seem to me to pose any particular difficulties. The Ministry of National Education was able to have the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen printed for all the schools in France and will undoubtedly be able to do the same for a poster showing two flags and the words of the chorus of La Marseillaise, for a completely assumed cost. It will be an opportunity for me to draw attention in a circular to the need to respect the code of education in what he already says about the fact that the French flag, the European flag and the motto of the French Republic must be on the front page of all schools, colleges and high schools in our country, which is not always what can be seen on the ground – I often ask that the necessary be done. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The amendment that we are proposing makes it possible to recall these basic elements, which we find in all countries without even having to debate, as it is natural that the flag of the country, the flag of the European Union for the countries concerned and the national anthem be present in each class. For our country, this measure seems to me to be educational progress, if only for the learning of the national anthem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u358	Mr Ciotti, do you validate the correction to your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u359	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Aurore Bergé also applauds]] Of course, Madam President, and I believe that we will do useful work this evening by highlighting the importance of the values of the Republic within each class of the Republic. My amendment, as corrected, seems to me to be an important step forward, which I hope we will now devote by voting unanimously in order to mark the importance of adherence to the values of the Republic, whatever the circumstances, and to ensure that every pupil is a citizen of this Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u360	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u361	There are countries where the flag is respected out of fear, not out of conviction. That is not what we want for our country and for our children. Children and young people will love their flag and France when they understand its values. They will love them when they are successful and take their place in their own homeland, not just because the flag has been placed in all classrooms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u362	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u363	I attended a French-language education in Côte d'Ivoire, Morocco and Lebanon, and I loved France through the teaching I received, because I was passed on a culture, a vision of humanity, the love of art. I was told about a varied geography and a temperate climate, about freedom that emanated from life in society. I loved France well before I knew by heart the words of La Marseillaise, because my teachers loved her and presented her to us as a treasure, and because I had sufficient knowledge of the language that allowed me to receive all this, in a sufficiently open environment. [[Applause on the MODEM benches and on several SOC and GDR benches]] Of course we must know the words of La Marseillaise – to deepen knowledge of them with pedagogy is indispensable – and to respect the flag. However, we should not believe that this is a magic key that will make it possible to establish the bond of trust and love between children and their country, to make each of them understand that there is all their place, and to convince them to take it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u364	[[Protests on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] Before we proceed to the vote, I give the floor to Mrs Aurore Bergé. I remind you that I do not have to give the floor to all the groups, ladies and gentlemen. We will have heard one speaker against and one speaker in favour, and we will be able to vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u365	I never said I was against it, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u366	It's not normal! On a measure of such importance, we must be able to express ourselves!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u367	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] No one here claims that the mere display in a class of the French flag, the European flag and the national anthem will suffice for us all to adhere to the values of the Republic: we know that it is a work of every day that we will have to accomplish. However, allowing this display within each of our classes will only do our Republic good. When we see that still today the trees planted in tribute to Ilan Halimi have been sawn, which represents an attack on an extremely important symbol and, therefore, on our common good and on the Republic itself, remembering our values, our attachment to the Republic, the tricolor flag, European values and our national anthem can only be a benefit to all our schoolchildren.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u368	[[Protests on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] I shall therefore put to the vote Amendment No 102, as corrected, which has received a favourable opinion from the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u369	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u370	Call the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u371	Mrs Pau-Langevin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u372	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] Madam President, we are currently discussing an extremely important point in the text, since it is a question of whether we are going to display the French and European flags, as well as the text of the national anthem, in each class. In these circumstances, it seems to me quite abnormal that we do not have the opportunity to explain our vote. We are all attached to the symbols I have mentioned and, therefore, we should not be able to interpret the various votes on the proposed measure as indications that would indicate who would be more or less attached to the Republic and its symbols. It is therefore not normal for us to vote as you have just done, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u373	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u374	Madam Member, there was a long suspension of sitting, during which we deliberated...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u375	There may have been a suspension, but we were not invited to take part in the deliberation! This suspension, we've only been going through it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u376	... and the statements were made in due course before we proceeded to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u377	The rapporteur has not given her opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u378	Mr Michel Larive has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u379	I would point out that the debate is obviously not intended to take place during the suspensions, but during the sitting itself. You told us that, on such a serious matter, we would have the floor, Madam President, but you finally chose not to respect the plurality of expressions, which I deplore: that is not how the debate should take place.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u380	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u381	Madam Chair, I ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u382	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u383	The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote has taken place and we will not come back to it. In order to appease the spirits, I will allow a few speeches, without however going up to one per group. Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u384	I find it regrettable that, on the initiative of our colleague, who wanted to arrive at a common text, we find ourselves in a paradoxical situation, since we have been prevented from speaking on such an important subject – I say "prohibited", since we have not been able to speak before the vote! When deciding whether the French flag, the European flag, the Declaration of Human Rights, the founding texts and the words of the national anthem are to be displayed in each class, it is nevertheless essential to be able to explain why we vote for or against such a measure. [["It's a poster! » on the benches of the LR group]] The debate seems all the more surreal to me because our group has, in its time, ensured that the Declaration of Human Rights and the Charter of Secularism are displayed in schools: it is therefore obvious that we are not opposed to the fact that the symbols of the Republic are present in schools. In our view, the problem is that this may represent a degree of distrust for teachers, who, in principle, have to teach children the symbols of the Republic. I have visited a large number of classes, and I can tell you that most of them are personalized by the teacher. It is a sign of distrust towards teachers! It won't make any progress!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u385	So assume your position!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u386	This amendment is part of those provisions which are voted to please one or the other but which are of no use!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u387	Thank you, Madam Member, so you could express your opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u388	It's a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u389	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u390	I will not go back to the incident, except to say that we were prevented from expressing ourselves in the allotted time. The rights of the opposition have been violated. We are debating the presence of flags in classes. For me, the school of the Republic is part of the philosophy of the Enlightenment, universalism, respect for others, regardless of their origin or nationality. The values taught at school are inspired by our motto, "Freedom-Equality-Fraternity". Our motto, as the minister rightly pointed out, is inscribed on the pediment of all public schools, the flags float in front of their facades. It seems to me that's enough. Children have the opportunity to discover these flags in all public institutions, especially at the entrance to their school. I don't think it's necessary to display them in the classrooms as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u391	Are you afraid to shock?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u392	We all respect our homeland, I first, but without going as far as nationalism. Do you understand me? Schools are not barracks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u393	So the tricolor flag is nationalism?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u394	[[Applause on the SOC benches. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I would understand the meaning of this measure for barracks, but we are talking about schools, where the sense of openness to each other must be taught. I'm Saint-Exupéry, you see.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u395	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u396	It seems to me that we can still go back to the course of this vote. Madam President, your neutrality imposes...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u397	I do not allow you to question the presidency! I have given you the floor, speak on the corrected amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u398	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, SOC and FI groups]] Let me finish. I ask that a second debate be held at the end of the examination of the text, because I am contesting the conduct of the vote. The opposition between the left and the right will not have escaped you, as no member of the left-wing groups was able to speak about this amendment. The rapporteur was not even able to give her opinion either! The vote took place in the hustle and bustle, while everyone questioned its progress. That is why this vote seems to me to be overtaken and a second debate is required. As for the background, let us not pretend that those who would be against the flags and La Marseillaise and those who would be against them would be opposed here. I will not remind you of the history of our country and of the Revolution and the reasons why some people are on the left of this House, and others on the right. On the other hand, the current context has given rise to an opposition between an identity crisis and a crisis of equality. In this case, we are facing a crisis of equality and not an identity crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u399	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u400	Those who have tried to oppose equality to identity lead us right into the wall. Moreover, it is not insignificant that those who have fomented the debate on identity should be the same people who are proposing this amendment tonight. There is no consensus on the issue. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I am not ashamed to say that I strongly oppose this amendment, which does not make me an anti-flag or anti-Marseillaise, an anthem that I sing when I choose it. I do not accept that an opposition to this amendment should be interpreted as an opposition to the values of the Republic. On the other hand, tonight's reactions show that it is the message that will be sent to schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u401	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u402	I'd like to leave tonight on a calm note. All we're talking about is consecrated things. The French and European flags are already floating on the frontons of schools, so it is not new to promote the presence of these flags in school buildings. As for La Marseillaise, it was already included in previous programmes and all children have to learn it. This measure is a logical development of elements of moral and civic education, consecrated and indisputable. You yourself said: who could oppose the French flag, the European flag and La Marseillaise? That would be unimaginable. From a practical point of view, the ministry has been able to edit, as Mrs Pau-Langevin recalled, documents of this type in the past – I am thinking of the Charter of secularism, whose display in all school buildings is generally respected. This measure is not an innovation, but a realization of the display of certain texts that we want to make sure they are well known to students. That ambition should bring us together. The vote probably took place too quickly, perhaps because of the late hour. It would be a shame if this incident would lead to a cleavage between us while the hymn and flags are at the heart of national unity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I understand each other's arguments but take this step as a natural consequence of certain provisions in the National Education Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u403	In kindergarten, the words of La Marseillaise will make a strange effect!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u404	The president of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u405	Let us agree that not everyone was able to speak because of unfortunate conditions. Perhaps the late hour was the reason, so I will ask you, Madam President, for a second debate under Rule 101 of the Rules of Procedure on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u406	It can only take place at the end of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u407	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, SOC, FI and GDR groups]] That's right! I am asking for this, however, because on this amendment we need to exchange calmly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u408	Yes, let's talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u409	It is essential that we can discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u410	The second deliberation will take place only at the end of the text. She's right. Let us remember, however, that those who wanted to express themselves did. The principle is not that all Members speak on each amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1143.u411	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Continuation of the bill for a school of trust. The meeting is adjourned.
