ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law on the right to terminate health supplementary contracts free of charge (No 1948).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u2	Mr Dominique Da Silva, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u3	Today we are given the opportunity to endorse the consensus text of the Joint Joint Committee meeting on 15 May on the proposal for a law on the right to terminate health supplementary contracts free of charge. I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Senate Committee on Social Affairs, my colleague Michel Amiel, for the quality of our discussions, which led to this text. Indeed, the success of the CMP was not self-evident. During its consideration in committee, the senators had in fact removed sections 1 to 3, which were the core of the bill, namely the option of termination after a year of contract proposed by insurance companies, pension institutions and mutuals respectively. In public sittings, however, the Senate re-established these three articles in a language similar to the one we had adopted. Our discussions therefore focused on several additional provisions voted by both chambers, which reflected relatively distant positions. We have therefore, with the rapporteur of the Senate, agreed to propose to the CMP that it remain at the core of the text and the only provisions that may be the subject of consensus between our two assemblies. I thank Michel Amiel for understanding that the issue of online rights consultation by healthcare professionals implementing the third party paying for insured persons is a major concern. That is why I have proposed to the CMP that it adopt a new wording of Article 3 bis A taking into account the observations of the Senate and ensuring that these digital services are deployed at the same time as the entry into force of the text, that is, on a date fixed by decree and no later than December 1, 2020. In return, the other provisions on which we have not been able to reach an agreement between the two Assemblies, i.e. the prohibition of differentiated reimbursement practices by healthcare networks and the report entrusted to the Supervisory and Resolution Authority – ACPR – on the legibility of guarantees, have been deleted. It is in this context that we have produced a text that can satisfy not only the two assemblies, but also, and above all, consumers. Since the first reading in the Assembly, a study carried out by Arcane Research in April 2019 among 2555 people not covered by a collective contract has provided evidence to judge the impact of this bill. According to this study, 90% of subscribers to an individual contract express satisfaction with their supplementary coverage, but this does not seem sufficient to retain all insured persons: 15% of them have in fact changed their supplementary agency in the last 24 months. Of those who have not changed, 25% plan to do so in the future. Unsurprisingly, the first motivations are too high prices and the desire for a better price-guaranteed ratio. As we can see, this possibility of termination corresponds to a real expectation of the French, who are very often satisfied with their supplementary coverage but wish to be free to compete. The optional cost-reimbursement insurance market is now a competitive and open market: it is in no way a competition for health benefits. This bill will therefore improve the supply of additional health care by leaving insured persons free to change bodies when they consider that the proposed guarantees and the service provided do not meet their expectations. It therefore aims to create a more competitive and balanced market by opening the right to terminate; fair competition based on comparability and greater readability of the offers, guarantees and services offered; a reduction in management costs due to the security and generalisation of the paying third party, within the framework of an effective relationship between compulsory health insurance and supplementary health insurance bodies. I am therefore proud to call on you to adopt this text, the result of a presidential commitment implemented and enriched by the fruitful work of our two assemblies. I also make an appointment so that we can assess its impact from 2021 onwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u4	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u5	The bill that will be finally adopted today has been the subject of lively debate both in the National Assembly and in the Senate, and we can only be satisfied that the deputies and senators agreed on a joint text at the meeting of the Joint Joint Committee. The possibility to terminate a health supplement contract at no cost and at any time after the first year of subscription is a measure expected by the insured. It will facilitate their efforts and support their purchasing power. It also allows the conditions for termination of health-related supplementary contracts to be aligned with those of car or borrower insurance contracts. This text is part of the continuity of the measures taken to respond to the economic and social emergency and responds to the need to adopt new measures to support the purchasing power of the French. For example, last December, the complementary bodies responded to the request of the President of the Republic and made several proposals to act on the expenditure constraints of the French, i.e. those which households cannot escape. The price increase planned for 2019 for entry-level contracts has thus been neutralised and the complementary bodies have committed themselves to joint work in order to bring down management costs, which now account for about 20% of the contributions collected. In addition, one of the proposals put forward by the President of the Republic, which was reflected in this bill, was to facilitate the conditions for termination in order to allow more freedom for households and to reduce the prices of complementary products by increasing competition. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has heard some criticisms expressed in the parliamentary debates. We will therefore follow closely the implementation of this text in order to ensure that this measure will not have an adverse effect on French people's access to complementary health care. First, this measure should not lead to an increase in premiums. The increase in competition allowed by this measure will have to encourage the supplementarys to lower their prices, in particular by reducing their operating costs, in order to attract or retain insured persons. This effect has been observed with respect to home insurance. Nor should this measure destabilize the market: it will encourage the mobility of insured persons who wish to change their health, but should not upset the current situation. The termination of a contract is already possible at each annual maturity. Finally, we will pay particular attention to the elderly. Guarantees in terms of mutualisation will remain unchanged, including in favour of the most vulnerable: mutual societies and other bodies offering responsible contracts, which constitute almost all contracts, will not be able to collect medical information from their members or set a contribution according to the state of health of the insured. This measure will have to be in favour of all insured persons, and in particular the elderly, for whom the current restrictive conditions of termination are very unfavourable. They are the most subject to sudden increases in the contribution of individual contracts, and it can now be difficult for them, since they are often not familiar with new technologies, to be able to find a new contract within the 20-day deadline. The provisions of the proposed law will apply to individuals for individual contracts as well as to companies for collective contracts and will come into force no later than December 2020. This deadline is essential since it must enable consultation with stakeholders and, above all, to prepare for the implementation of this measure with complementary bodies and health professionals, so that it can be translated into real simplification for the benefit of insured persons. In particular, we will ensure that professionals practising paid third parties have access to the rights of insured persons in real time, since the guarantees will no longer cover the calendar year. Finally, and as has been recalled by the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Agnès Buzyn, the Government wishes to continue in a climate of confidence the joint work carried out with the complementary bodies since the beginning of the quinquennium. This collaboration is rich and has led to major advances: I am thinking in particular of the reform of 100% health, which is a major step forward in access to care and which has been built in close connection with all actors and in particular with the federations of complementary bodies. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is important in several ways: on the one hand because it reflects the fact that the majority is meeting its commitments, and on the other because it is a concrete and pragmatic measure that will have a real impact on the daily lives of the French and that meets their expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u6	In the general debate, Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u7	A few days ago, the Prime Minister here also praised the virtues of doubt: he was immediately applauded without hesitation or restraint by the majority. Then he announced a change of method, recognizing that he had been led "to make quick and not sufficiently concerted decisions". The majority leader said: "We need to involve the French more in the making of our decisions. The transformations we have undertaken, many of our fellow citizens thought that we were doing them without them. Some even believed that we were doing them against them." It would be wrong to tell you that these few words would have awakened in me some hope, or even some vast illusion. Yet you had there, with this text, a great opportunity to illustrate this famous new method that was announced to us a few days ago. So here we are to consider a bill that approves the possibility of cancelling any health supplement contract at any time and free of charge, after one year of membership. All the time of the shuttle of this text between the National Assembly and the Senate, the majority, at the origin of this bill, has argued for the merits of greater flexibility and welcome for the members and regulation of the market for complementary health care by increasing their competition. From our point of view, that is to say, from the point of view of Communist Members of Parliament and Members of the Democratic and Republican Left, these are arguments which are wrong, which start from a misdiagnosis and which lead to dangerous confusion. Merchandising is indeed the cause of a number of problems, and even deviations, in the field of complementary health care. It would have been necessary to strengthen the mutualist spirit, while you do the opposite. You seek your salvation in the market: but salvation is not for sale, and it is the market that is putting it in default. First, you start from a bad observation, or rather from a poorly substantiated observation. Health supplement contributions have increased in recent years, that is true, but this is the direct consequence, on the one hand, of the transfer of what was previously covered by social security and which is now the responsibility of the supplementarys, and, on the other hand, of the increase of 14 % in taxes based directly on mutuals. Mutuals are thus, in a way, forced to raise contributions and taxes. It is therefore the gradual disengagement of the State in the financing of social security that is at the root of this situation. The result, reinforced by the effects of various European directives, is the massive arrival of complementary for-profit products, which has transformed a real, serious, solidarity-related problem, that of the rest, into a health market. Not all of them have the same budget structure, so not all of them pass on the additional costs to the insured in the same way, and with the same objective. There is a great difference, which you never make, between for-profit and non-profit organizations – I am of course thinking of the mutual movement. By removing any distinction between private insurance organisations – bank insurance – and mutual insurance companies, and by deciding to exacerbate free and undistorted competition, you keep up the environmental confusion that health care is being ensured in the way you provide your home or car, that is, depending on the risks potentially incurred and its financial means; And that's what you just did, Mr. Secretary of State. As a result, your text will reinforce the renunciation of some people to a cover, so to some care. Yet access to care should be your primary concern. One might wonder by seeing the additional share increase to the detriment of the share reimbursed by social security, but you do not. On the other hand, this bill is likely to lead to a selection of insured persons: mutuals, in order to be competitive and profitable, will favour individuals with the least risk, the youngest and the healthy, to the detriment of others. The "mutual market", since this is what you promote, will adjust to the risks: to the vouchers, the cheap rates, to the bad, the expensive contributions. The pernicious aspect of your text is that, far from ensuring equal treatment, it will deepen inequalities in access to care. In the end, it will not lead to the regulation of premium prices or to making them more accessible to as many people as possible. Much worse, you open the door to low cost mutuals and permanently undermine the mutual principle of solidarity. The management cost savings you mentioned will benefit the most important banks and will partly be borne by the employees of these bodies. You're going to increase commercial competition. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] For all these reasons, we regret the agreement reached on the text and continue to support, against the commodification of health and its logic of individualisation of risks, a logic of solidarity, according to which social security coverage would take its full place. This bill is in fact a retaliatory measure, by which you intend to designate a scapegoat responsible for the weakness of purchasing power. It is neither credible nor serious, and it will not be without consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u8	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u9	As part of the many reforms that we are undertaking to improve purchasing power, the free termination of the supplementary health care after 12 months of accession is the fulfilment of a commitment made on the basis of a strong expectation from our fellow citizens. This bill responds to a concrete need from everyday life, and that is why my point will be supported by an example drawn from reality. Antoine, 75 years old, a modest retired province, receives 1300 euros per month. This year, as well as 80 per cent of the French, it received the first third of the abolition of its housing tax, for an amount of about 150 euros. However, Antoine's purchasing power is burdened by the expensive health post. Despite the recognition of his long-term condition – which provides 100% of the medical expenses associated with his chronic illness, Antoine needs additional health care. The cost of the latter amounts to 120 euros per month: it is a lot – almost 10% of its income. In 2019, he hopes to finally be able to terminate his contract with its complementary, which has become too expensive, but the complexity of the process of termination worries him, due to the regulatory difficulties imposed by the complementary bodies. When the rates were received last October, he had seen a 4% increase in his contribution in one year, bringing the increase to almost 30% in ten years, without any improvement in the service, while his health refunds increased by only 15%. When reading the new rates, Antoine had therefore wished to change his mutual. He had compared the offers – his chronic illness is not an obstacle, since the principle of the absence of consideration of the medical record is permanently inscribed in our society. Antoine knows that as a retiree, his profile is sought out and that competition can save him money while improving the services rendered. Yes, but here it is: the time to compare, to inquire, to choose, the period – very short – of the fifteen days granted to cancel his contribution had expired. Antoine left for one year of contributions to 120 euros per month, even though he had found a supplement to 100 euros per month offering the same guarantees. It thus loses an economy of 16% and finds itself trapped, trapped by a system that favours renewal at the expense of freedom of choice. Like 94% of the French, Antoine is looking forward to the entry into force of our bill in December 2020, so that he can finally terminate his complement at any time, easily, without constraint, simply by sending a deed on a sustainable medium after a year of commitment. This will secure its care path thanks to a complementary offer centered on service, speed of reimbursement, quality of guarantees and lower costs. This will also secure the complements, avoiding, contrary to what is happening today, exacerbated consumerism and nomadism. Management will be simplified through year-round smoothing of memberships and terminations. As for the overall process, it will be modernised by the creation of a digital platform that will replace the paper card and will inform the user and healthcare professionals in real time about its current rights. This bill is more efficient and efficient for everyone, with the key of €1 billion in purchasing power given to the French, while simplifying procedures, maintaining healthcare networks and guaranteeing the mutualised coverage system. As of December 2020, following a joint and final committee, our bill will be added to a series of virtuous measures to promote the health and purchasing power of French and French people. Indeed, the future is also the simplified comparison of rates and guarantees thanks to the agreement signed in February by Agnès Buzyn and the National Union of Supplementary Health Insurance Organizations – UNOCAM. The future is the merger of the universal-additional health insurance and the supplementary health insurance, which will allow very low-income people to benefit from full medical coverage for 1 euro per day. The future is the rise of 100% health care in order to guarantee dental, auditory, optical care and prostheses of quality, without any remaining burden, for all. The future is finally our proposal for a law on the right to terminate health-related supplementary contracts free of charge, which will render purchasing power to the French, allowing them to realize a saving of up to € 1850 per year for a couple, according to the consumer organisation UFC-Que choix. [[Mr. Pierre Dharréville laughs]] Opposing this bill is an ideological nonsense based on postures to support rent, rather than innovation. Some here predict a dark future for our bill. Yet, if one considers their arguments, they themselves offer us an over-running, ever-closer future, engulfed in an outdated carcan, to the detriment of health and purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u10	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u11	Let them explain to Antoine why he must keep, for no obvious reason, his extra too expensive for another twelve months, simply because he took more than fifteen days to react to an unjustified increase. We prefer to speak true and concretely to Antoine, by making possible a better future thanks to strong and committed measures. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Before meeting Antoine, let us remember the words of another Antoine, Antoine de Saint-Exupéry: "As far as the future is concerned, it is not enough to foresee it, but to make it possible". Making the future possible is what our group is committed to doing through this ambitious and expected bill. Like the aviator writer drawing a shelter containing the idealized sheep of the Little Prince, we draw the benevolent and virtuous contours of a legislative framework conducive to a favourable future. We thus give each of our fellow citizens the means to dream of the ideal they would like to see realized in our common project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u12	You don't make us dream...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u13	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u14	We are meeting this morning to discuss, after an accelerated procedure, the draft law of the National Assembly's "La République en marche" group aimed at giving insured persons, both private and corporate, the possibility to terminate health supplementary contracts at no cost and at any time after the first year of subscription. Following a single reading by each of the two chambers, the Joint Joint Committee meeting on 15 May last reached agreement on a joint text. As far as we are concerned, we welcome this. Indeed, a compromise aimed at refocusing the text on its original provision, namely the possibility of terminating a contract at any time after a year of accession, has been found, which allows us to adopt this text definitively this morning. In the field of health, social insurance providers will now be able to benefit from the same provisions as those laid down in the Consumer Act, known as the Hamon Act, which allow the termination of multi-hazard home insurance, civil liability and motor vehicle insurance contracts in the course of the year, after an initial period of one year. In the National Assembly, even within the majority, there have been significant substantive disagreements – as well as in the Senate, by the way. This bill has given rise to lengthy debates, which I will not go back to, as much as the essential thing is that we have reached agreement on a joint text. I note, however, that the discussions in the Social Affairs Committee in the Senate resulted in the outright deletion of Articles 1, 2 and 3, which were the core of the text. They were re-established at the sitting, on the proposal of one of our colleagues in the Republican Group and by the adoption of two identical amendments by the rapporteur and the Government, the date of entry into force of the law being maintained by 1 December 2020 at the latest. These three articles have only undergone changes in the margin between the National Assembly and the Senate. We have reintroduced into the CMP the obligation to terminate by registered letter with acknowledgment of receipt in certain cases which are particularly at risk of litigation. I could also mention a few editorial changes on which the rapporteurs have easily agreed. These first three articles, in the wording proposed to us, incorporate the simplifications introduced by the National Assembly concerning the terms of termination and the principle that the new body with which the insured wishes to enter into a contract will ensure the formalities necessary for the exercise of the right of termination. The Senate also deleted two articles introduced by the National Assembly, articles 3 bis A and 3 ter, simply because it felt that they did not provide an operational solution to the issues relating to the implementation of the fee-paying third party and the readability of supplementary health contracts. I come to the point where the Joint Joint Committee could have failed had the honourable senators not been able to show a constructive spirit, as did the two members of the Republican Group, Stéphane Viry and myself. Senators had introduced a new Article 3 bis AA to extend to all health professionals the prohibition of differentiated reimbursement practices by complementary health insurance organizations within the framework of health care networks. We agreed to delete this section altogether, because we felt that it was not directly related to the bill. Personally – and I recognize that this is not my group's position – I believe that healthcare networks can contribute to a moderation of health spending through the commitment of professional partners to meet the predefined criteria of quality and pricing and to contribute to the coverage of care for insured persons who benefit from an advance fee exemption. Nevertheless, this is another debate and, in any case, the article has been deleted. All this to tell you, Secretary of State, that the Republican Group knows how to be constructive and adapt its position when the Government's proposals are in line with what the French and French expect. Personally, I regret that the majority systematically opposes all our proposals, even when they were approved by the minister or by you – I had another example last week on the occasion of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on the organization and transformation of the health system. Indeed, we all know that our health system is exsangued: the public hospital, emergency services are at the end; rural areas suffer from medical desertification. Regrettably, it is not the remedies proposed by the Government that will succeed in responding to this very serious crisis. Let us therefore join our efforts to achieve this: this is what France is asking us to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u15	On the whole of the bill, in view of the text of the Joint Joint Committee, I have before me a request for a public vote in the La République group on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u16	We are meeting today to validate the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee, which reached an agreement on the proposal for a law on the right to terminate health supplementary contracts free of charge on 15 May. First of all, we would like to welcome the compromise work that was carried out by both chambers at the end of the parliamentary shuttle. An agreement has been reached, and the version of this text submitted to us this morning is in line with its original spirit. We are also pleased that the Government has heard the reservations expressed during the discussions and is committed to ensuring the possible side effects of the provisions adopted. This bill represents a pragmatic and consistent step forward in ensuring a fair tariff policy on the part of complementary health organizations. This equity is a cross-cutting principle, which is intended to apply to the economic sector – we have seen this with the new entrepreneurial logic promoted by the law on business growth and transformation – CAPTE law. The equality of arms between insured persons and insurers is the very substance of this bill, which opens the possibility of cancelling at no cost and at any time after the first year of subscription the supplementary health contracts offered by insurance companies, provident institutions and mutuals or their unions. It is this principle of infra-annual termination that has been confirmed by the Joint Joint Committee. With the entry into force of this provision, there is no question of revolutionizing the world of insurance and mutuals: it is only a question of giving our fellow citizens more flexibility and greater room for manoeuvre in the management of their contracts. What is more, we can hope that the pricing practice of complementary bodies can be reasonably regulated by the effect of competition. This desire for increased competition was not the result of a risky ideology, a purely liberal dogma that would be binding on all, on the contrary. The situation we are facing on this subject, the French are witnessing, proves to be unfair: the insured have suffered an impressive inflation of their contributions, which have increased by more than 50% since 2006. While this inflation may be due in part to higher health spending, it remains unacceptable that the costs of managing certain health supplements could be so much increased. Indeed, a structural trend has been observed since 2010: management fees have increased twice as fast as reimbursements to insured persons. Complementary organisations spent €7.2 billion in 2016 for their management costs, representing 20% of the contributions. Of this total, more than €2.8 billion was spent on acquisition costs, including advertising. As we know, 95% of French people have complementary health care. On average, each of them spends EUR 700 each year on health supplement. The dangerous inflationary slope referred to above therefore calls on us to lay down safeguards and, indeed, to support the objective of this text, namely an increase in purchasing power for the insured. Finally, all the provisions of the text can only have effect if they are combined with a better readability of the guarantees proposed in the supplementary health contracts, so that our citizens can choose their mutuals with full knowledge of the facts. This readability of contracts is an objective which the MODEM Group has always been committed to. At a time of transparency and intensification of the flow of information, it is indeed essential that all our citizens be able to take ownership of their rights more easily. Finally, we regret the late implementation by 1 December 2020 of the measures contained in this text. If we understand the need to adapt an entire ecosystem of assurance, this delay puts the risk of an increase in the costs in advance. This will therefore require attention in the implementation of the law. In conclusion, the MODEM and related groups are satisfied with the text of the Joint Joint Committee and will therefore support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u17	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u18	The bill that we are looking at today is designed to allow insured persons, both private and corporate, to terminate their health supplement contract at no cost and at any time after the first year of subscription, whether it has been signed with a mutual, insurance or a pension institution. This text has not been the subject of any prior consultation or impact assessment. It was presented in haste by the majority group, without the knowledge of why. You tell us that this is a measure of purchasing power, which would also make it easier for the administration to proceed. I know an effective measure for this: the generalised paying third party. Voted by the Socialists, this last measure was immediately removed by the present government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u19	It's a big mistake.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u20	It allowed the French no longer to have to advance the costs at their doctors. That, Mr. Secretary of State, is the measure of purchasing power that would really make life easier for the public. But you fought it every time I offered it to you, for fear of putting you on the back of liberal medicine. Today, you are asking us to vote on a bill that will, of course, give consumers additional rights, but has the disadvantage of undermining the mechanisms of mutualisation and solidarity, to the detriment of the most fragile insured persons, especially the older ones. Indeed, this bill encourages individualism; It invites the consumer to calculate the costs and benefits for himself, just for himself. It will be felt that this text will perhaps benefit young, active, healthy, low-risk, solvent insured persons with a purely insurgency logic. But is it very serious, Mr Secretary of State, to encourage the individualization of risks, to destabilize the principle of mutualisation against the dangers of life? With this text, you directly attack the mechanisms of intergenerational solidarity. Today it is the mutuals who are involved, but tomorrow it will be social security. Our social system will then disappear to the benefit of an American-style system, where only the most fortunate have access to health. Health is not a consumer good, it is a right for every Frenchman. However, I do not believe that this text meets our legitimate public health expectations. Will this bill improve access to the care of our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u21	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u22	No. Will it reduce health inequalities? No. Will it reduce the costs of managing mutual societies? Neither. Will it make it possible to improve the prevention led by mutuals? No. Will it reduce the number of people who still do not have a mutual fund in this country, namely 4 million? No. Is it useful, Secretary of State? No. [[MM. Pierre Dharréville and Bastien Lachaud applaud]] For all these reasons, the Socialist Group of the National Assembly will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u23	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u24	This bill, tabled by our colleagues in the majority, aims to better protect insured persons by giving them more freedom to choose their complementary health care. As we said at first reading, the IDU and independent group is largely committed to this ambition, which is in line with the concerns of consumers and policy-holders with regard to purchasing power. Indeed, in the face of the risks and hazards of life, our citizens aspire to more protection. The remaining issues of health care and coverage are, therefore, key issues. It is well known that the 2013 reform completed the health coverage of employees, but it only benefited the 25-59 age group, the most frequently healthy category, with the highest standard of living. By comparison, individual contracts mainly concern non-employees, i.e. students, civil servants, pensioners and inactive persons. These contracts, however, tend to offer less protective cover than collective contracts, particularly for fee overruns. In other words, the people who are least protected against the hazards of life are also those who need them most. This is particularly the case for pensioners, for whom, it is known, the cost of supplementary health care is generally higher than for the assets. The purpose of this bill is precisely to restore purchasing power to insured persons through increased competition between complementary bodies, which must take down tariffs. This development will therefore benefit the insured and the members. It is also a continuation of the legislative framework: I am of course thinking of the Chatel Act of 2005, which requires insurers and mutuals to prevent subscribers from renewing their contract with tacit renewal. This first measure was supplemented by the Hamon Law of 2014, which authorizes the termination of insurance contracts after a period of one year, without costs or penalties for the insured. I welcome the fruitful dialogue between the two chambers which allowed the drafting of a common text, refocused around its flagship provision. We particularly welcome the compromise reached on how to ensure the deployment of digital rights query services in real time, even before the text comes into force. This mission will be entrusted to UNOCAM. We hope that it will effectively guarantee the proper application of the paying third party, which the relaxation of the right to terminate could weaken. If we want to win the support of the actors concerned and ensure the success of the reform, this aspect seems essential to us. It is absolutely necessary to deploy such a system, which will both protect our citizens and allow professionals to verify the rights of patients in real time, as they already do on the site ameli.fr for the opening of rights to social security. We also welcome the increased readability and comparability of the guarantees offered by complementary health care. This measure will restore confidence between the French and the second floor of our social protection system. As you know, our main fear lay in the ability that will be given to the subscriber to make sure that he makes the right choice in complete serenity. The risk was great that this choice would be guided by the display of a price, i.e. to be disconnected from the readability and quality of the protection actually offered. I would also like to recall the essential role played by complementary health care in the coverage of the care of our citizens. This role cannot be called into question, nor can it depreciate the quality of service that these bodies provide to our fellow citizens. The vast majority of our group will therefore vote in favour of this bill. It does not constitute a revolution in itself, nor should it exaggerate its effects, but it will bring more flexibility to our compatriots in choosing their complementary health. We are in favour of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u25	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u26	Last year, one in ten Frenchmen had no health coverage. This figure must be of concern to us because it is on the rise compared to previous years. He must also alert us, because he reveals that an increasing number of French people are giving up their medical treatment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u27	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u28	It is also proof that equal access to health care, which we are dealing with this morning, cannot be limited to the fight against medical desertification, although on this subject, Mr Secretary of State, government action is not up to the stakes, I have had the opportunity to stress this many times. We cannot accept that the most fragile, the most modest of the French will give up care because care costs too much and the rest will increase. So yes, ladies and gentlemen, the costs of supplementary health care must be of concern to us, as we know that health care spending is increasing. Their increase has been more than 30 per cent in ten years. As a result, contributions to supplementary agencies followed this increase, amounting to 38 per cent over the same period. Today, subscription rates are often between 1000 and 2000 euros per year. Our colleagues in the La République en marche group therefore propose that we tackle these incompressible and burdensome expenditure, which weighs heavily on the purchasing power of households. This choice seems judicious when we know that the costs of health supplements represent between 2 and 5% of the so-called "pre-committed" expenses, alongside housing and food. It is all the more necessary that, in order to implement the measure of the remainder at zero charge, Minister Agnès Buzyn had requested an effort from the complementary bodies of 50 million euros per year between 2019 and 2023, which obviously raises fears of an increase in contributions. So you have made the choice, approved by the Senate, to liberalize the health supplement sector, to lower the price of contracts. Your logic seems simple and convincing: we must give the members the opportunity to terminate their contracts at any time, and without charge – Paul Christophe rightly spoke of an extension of the Hamon law. The aim is therefore to encourage the supplement to offer more attractive rates. If he understands the value of such a measure, our group, the rapporteur, has raised, at first reading, the questions that it might raise. How can we be sure that it will not lead to an increase in advertising costs or administrative management costs? We know, scalded cat sucks cold water! And that is what happened with banking services: on this point, I refer you to the Court of Auditors' excellent report, which notes an explosion in ancillary costs in recent years. I therefore invite you, Mr Secretary of State, to follow this issue very closely because, in time, there is a risk of drifts. How, on the other hand, can we make sure that the choice is really free? This is, of course, essential: we cannot force any of our fellow citizens to join any of the complementary measures. How can we also ensure that certain achievements of our social protection system, such as the functioning of mutual societies, which is based on solidarity between their members through a pooling of risks, will not be called into question? Will we be able to effectively maintain this principle in the system that you propose to us? Beyond these doubts, our group also wondered about the basic premise of your text. While the health sector is, in each case, an economic sector, it is not comparable to other sectors. You introduced this bill as a "evolution" of the 2014 Hamon Act. But when it comes to health, Mr. Secretary of State, there is obviously a need for caution, including, as I said, to ensure that there is no impact on case and management costs. However, our questions, if not our concerns, must not make us forget that it is necessary and urgent to change the current functioning of complementary health care. It needs to be improved to meet our health needs, not to enrich organizations, their shareholders and their leaders. This concern is legitimate when it is known that 20% of the contributions collected are not allocated to the reimbursement of benefits. Finally, we welcome your willingness to improve access to the care of the most modest – a fight that I have been fighting for many years – and we welcome the introduction of the two new articles 3 bis A and 3 bis, which will allow for better readability of contracts by members and health professionals. [[Julien Aubert applauds]] These are the reasons why I will vote for the text, which will not be the case for all members of the Freedom and Territory Group, because some reservations have not yet been lifted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u29	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u30	At the conclusion of the Joint Joint Committee, which had been concluded, the philosophy of the original text of the majority bill was retained. It is – this is what is posted – to allow each insured person to terminate at no cost and at any time the contract that binds him to a health supplement once the first year of subscription has passed. As such, the measure does not give rise to any opposition on our part: it would prevent insured persons from being hostages to contracts which they could not terminate only after excessive notice or, worse still, on the anniversary date of their appointment. This display, however, conceals a philosophy of health coverage that we do not support. Indeed, the gradual shift in the allocation of health expenditure from social security to private mutuals is a bad thing for our fellow citizens. They pay more for a protection that gradually weakens. The list of medicines reimbursed by social security continues to shrink, and the evolution of care is on the rise: the proportion of French people who no longer care for themselves or are ill-treated for lack of money is increasing. This indicator should push the majority to question its policy, but it is not. Privatisation of health coverage is progressing, and nothing is being done to protect and strengthen the care system that has made France proud. Everything that is a matter of national solidarity and public service seems to you to be generally expensive and inefficient. Yet our country has long had, and by far, the best social security system in the world, envied by all, except, of course, the toughest liberals. This system was based on the sharing of medical risk through contributions that enabled society to take care of the disease of all. With the gradual shift in health coverage from social security to private mutuals, the share paid by the insured person increases. The proportionality between effort and income is changing. Thus, the poorest pay more as their protection weakens. I would point out that in 1980 the share of the consumption of care financed by social security was 80%. Today, it is only 60%, and is going down. So, what to do? My colleagues at La France insoumée and I defend the "100% safe", for the care of all prescribed health care. How can this be achieved? By absorbing the additional costs, which would result in management savings that would allow them alone to finance more than one third of the remaining costs currently charged to users. Why not work in this direction? Finally, I want to say a word about the campaign commitment of candidate Emmanuel Macron, who promised a "zero charge left" on glasses and hearing aids. Today, no one is fooled: it is enough to observe the increase in the rates of health supplements to understand that the rest of the charge for the user is not zero, as you promised, but simply transferred from the invoice of the optician to that of the complementary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u31	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u32	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Once again, under the guise of simplification, free and undistorted competition and the freedom of the user, you detract from national solidarity, just and egalitarian, to the benefit of private interests which cost a majority what they relate to a minority. We will vote against the text because this deep philosophy is contrary to the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u33	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u34	I shall put the whole bill to the vote, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u35	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 35 Number of votes cast 35 Absolute majority 18 For adoption 28 Against 7
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u36	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u37	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u38	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on energy and climate (No. 1908, 2032, 2063, 2031).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u39	Last night, the House began discussion of the articles, concluding with Amendment No 99 to Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u40	Amendment No 99 is not being defended. I have before me four amendments, Nos 116, 220, 6 and 202, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Matthieu Orphelin to support Amendment No. 116.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u41	I made a commitment to remove it last night, following our excellent discussions on biogas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u42	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 220.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u43	With your agreement, Mr President, I shall at the same time defend the three successive amendments by my colleague Vincent Descoeur. Amendment No 220 is aimed at the development of agricultural renewable energies, particularly agroforestry. No. 6 deals with renewable gas. Finally, No 202 aims to speed up the development of renewable energies, more specifically of certain promising agricultural renewable energies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u44	Mr Cellier, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u45	The law aims at a very significant increase in the share of renewable energies – ENR – in our energy mix. This objective requires the use of new renewable energy sources. The amendments are therefore already satisfied. In addition, they have the disadvantage of quoting certain sectors by name, while there are many others, with great potential, which should not be left out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u46	I call on the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u47	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u48	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 373.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u49	It aims to call on the Government to respect the commitment to reduce the share of nuclear energy in the energy mix to 50 per cent by 2025, endorsed by candidate Emmanuel Macron during the presidential campaign. Indeed, paragraph 7 proposes to extend the deadline to 2035, on the pretext that nothing was done during the previous legislature – something Emmanuel Macron could not ignore at the time of his campaign, given the duties he held at the time at the Elysée and then at the Government. Why, then, did you make a promise to the French that he already knew he would not be able to keep?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u50	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u51	The scenario is based on studies by the Electricity Transmission Network – TEN – which showed in its forecast for 2018 that it would be difficult to achieve the target of 50 % of electricity from nuclear sources by 2025. The nuclear decommissioning trajectory required for such a target would have involved the closure of 24 reactors, i.e. 22 gigawatts of nuclear capacity, in five years – from 2020 to 2025. This would have led to an extremely rapid rate of decommissioning, which does not find any equivalent among the countries that have conducted a nuclear exit programme. This would also have resulted in an important development of new thermal means and a sharp increase in carbon dioxide emissions – which I imagine you do not endorse –, not to mention the social consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u52	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u53	We have already discussed this issue extensively. However, I will make it clear that we intend to have a realistic strategy. We have asked TEN to provide us with more precise reports, which I will gladly transmit to you, on the installations that we could close, whether nuclear or thermal – in particular coal-fired power plants – while guaranteeing the security of electricity supply to France and the French. You know that we don't install large power generation capacities like this: a nuclear slice represents 900 megawatts. I would also point out that we have decoupled the closure of the Fessenheim nuclear power plant and the opening of the Flamanville nuclear power plant, whereas, under the previous legislature, the government, for political or other reasons, I do not know, has always linked both. It is already an important effort to close the Fessenheim power plant, as we committed ourselves to it, during this parliamentary term, when the opening of the Flamanville RPD is obviously not guaranteed by 2022, and it is also an important effort to continue the early closure of coal-fired power plants and the closure of ten nuclear reactors over ten years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u54	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u55	I will not go into the technical details, but you agree, Minister, that candidate Macron's program was not realistic in this area, even though it had been at the heart of the previous executive. That is exactly what Mr Lachaud said to you. We take note of that. For the rest, our position does not change.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u56	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 630, 381, 616, 195 and 196, which can be discussed jointly. On Amendment No 630, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 630.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u57	We have called for a public vote on this amendment because we believe that the climate strategy should aim at decarbonisation of the economy. With this in mind, we propose that 95% of electricity be decarbonised, which means that more emphasis should be placed on the disappearance of the thermal means of production. This seems much more consistent to us with the objective of combating global warming. This leads me to a criticism of your policy, since you give priority to denuclearization; And denuclearization has no impact – and in our view even has a negative impact – on global warming. We therefore wish to avoid making a mistake. [[Minister of State smiles]] The minister, whom I called in my motion to reject beforehand, stated that he had clearly loosened the closure of the Fessenheim power plant and the opening of the Flamanville power plant. Originally, in order to maintain the installed capacity, the principle was to open a new power plant when one was closed – I had brocarded the Volvic amendment at the time: one power plant is extinguished, another one is awakening! This was the whole principle of the ceiling provided for in the Law on the Energy Transition for Green Growth. Therefore, we do not understand why you did not remove this ceiling: if we can untie both, and even if we review the law, why don't you revisit the whole philosophy of nuclear power? We have to take responsibility. For our part, we are in favour of decarbonisation and we intend to combat global warming. What about you?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u58	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 381.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u59	This is an important amendment, which aims to prohibit the extension of the life of a nuclear reactor beyond forty years. When our technicians built the reactors at the nuclear power plants, they planned a lifespan of 40 years, with safety guaranteed as much as possible during this period. To decide to extend the life of these reactors by ten or even fifteen years, as you do, is not only a danger to our citizens but also a huge cost. The Court of Auditors estimated the cost of the large carenage to be EUR 100 billion. Don't you think that injecting these EUR 100 billion into renewable energy would allow us to get out of nuclear energy well before the 40-year lifespan limit of reactors? [[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] I think it is irresponsible to extend the life of reactors from 10 to 15 years. This will be at the risk of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u60	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 616.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u61	The objective of reducing the share of nuclear energy in electricity generation, as set out in the Green Growth Energy Transition Law, to 50 per cent, was not considered possible by 2025. The Government is simply proposing to postpone the achievement of this objective to 2035, but without any steps and without any marked voluntarism. That is why, through this amendment, we propose realistic steps: 65% nuclear electricity for 2025, 50% for 2030 and 30% for 2035. Subject to the mobilization of all actors, this is quite achievable. These figures do not come out of nowhere – I want to reassure those of our colleagues who may be concerned about them. They are less ambitious than Germany's plans for itself since the Fukushima disaster eight years ago. In less than ten years, the Germans have been able to act proactively on their nuclear fleet. For our part, we propose a period of fifteen years, for a path less ambitious than that of Germany but no less responsible for nuclear risk. We have too quickly forgotten the various nuclear disasters, including the Fukushima disaster, which is only eight years old. If such an accident were to occur in France, we would have to deal with the consequences for centuries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u62	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u63	Mr Aubert, our opinions sometimes converge on nuclear energy, even if the interpretations are not entirely the same. Yes, nuclear energy is decarbonized. But the nuclear base on which our energy policy has been based for several decades has led us to put all our eggs in the same basket. The virtue of the energy mix is to allow the expansion of the field of possible : wind, phovoltaic, nuclear, hydraulic... It seems to me that the nuclear base is intended to become a solid pillar on which our energy policy must be based, renewable energies being called upon to consolidate this strategy. I think you will agree with me that we should aim to reduce carbon in our energy policy – because it is a matter of ending fossil energy. That is why we are going to close the last four coal-fired power plants in metropolitan France. We are therefore going to transform our policy from the nuclear base into a policy of pillars, with a strong pillar of nuclear energy and another of renewable energies, which are going to grow in power, in parallel with the gradual disappearance of fossil fuels. Nuclear is also a generational issue – I see in the public forums the younger generation and wonder how we could leave them responsible for the treatment of waste, for which we have still not found a solution. Nevertheless, it would be good, and on this point too, I would agree with you, to look into the fourth-generation reactors that might provide a solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u64	Maybe!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u65	In any case, the scientific scope of the possible treatment of such waste must be broadened. You see, Mr. Aubert, that we do not agree on everything but that we can share some views. We can discuss this, but the strategy we are putting in place seems to me to be the right one.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u66	I have noted that you are co-signatory to Amendments Nos 195 and 196, Mr Aubert, I will give you the floor later. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u67	It is very good that we have this joint debate on totally opposed amendments: one, that of Mr Aubert, is not to diversify electricity production when the others, those of Mr Lachaud and Mr Lambert, are, on the contrary, aiming to speed up the closure of nuclear power plants to the point, as Mr Lambert proposes, of achieving a 30% share of nuclear energy in electricity generation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u68	For 2035.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u69	It would really be a very strong rhythm. Yes, Mr. Aubert, it's good in politics to have priorities, but we don't have to have one. For our part, the first is the climate. So there is no question of shutting down nuclear power plants to build thermal power plants instead – it's clear and clear. The second is the diversification of electricity production, because we do not want to be too dependent on one technology. Some talk of a "resilient" electrical system: I don't like this expression from the novlangue, but it means that we have to be able to adapt to the difficulties of a particular sector by having several modes of electricity generation – and it also goes, as I have already said, of our economic and industrial interest. We therefore intend to lead a dual energy transition: the climate transition, above all, and the diversification of the modes of electricity generation. We want to do this realistically, so step by step. The change will be profound and lasting because it is well known that when production units such as thermal power plants or nuclear power plants are closed, they will not be replaced in just one or two years. It takes at least 10 years, given the importance of investment and the time of procedures and construction, even for wind turbines. And I'm not talking about the time of construction of a nuclear power plant. We therefore assume our median position: neither all-nuclear nor zero-nuclear – we do not advocate an accelerated exit from nuclear power. I would like to draw your attention to two points. First, it is the overriding responsibility of the Government – in my view it is even our collective responsibility – to ensure the security of the French electricity supply. This applies to both individuals and businesses. You can imagine what would happen in the event of a default: we would obviously turn to the Government, whatever it may be, to blame it for having carried out a policy leading to power cuts. That would rightly be considered unacceptable. Secondly, today the amount of investment in renewable energy in France is extremely important, I say in particular in response to Mr Lachaud. They are valued at €5 billion per year for photovoltaics and wind energy. These are private investments. Of course, they would not exist without the predictability that the guaranteed purchase price allows, but they are colossal sums that are part of the proactive development of renewable energies in France. That is why I call on you to reject the amendments under joint discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u70	Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u71	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Lachaud considered that it would be irresponsible to extend the lives of nuclear power plants. But the irresponsibility would be rather not to secure the supply of the French, and to hold a dogmatic discourse that would result in a risk of blackout! Irresponsibility would be not to ensure France's energy independence and to depend on other countries in this respect. The main irresponsibility, therefore, is there, in the speech! There would also be a very cynical approach, consisting of the dogmatic closure of nuclear power plants, which could be extended, under safe conditions to be checked, by compensating for the restarting of thermal power plants. Look at what is happening in Germany today, and the debates that are taking place there! We're consistent. We were elected on a presidential programme to rebalance the energy mix. The French decided in 2012, and we handed this over during the 2017 campaign. We rebalance the trajectory so that we can be sincere when we defend our closure plan. We are shifting things from 2025 to 2035, but we intend to follow this path. Finally, Mr Aubert, you consider that decarbonisation is the only key to the multi-annual energy programming – PPE. It is a biased axis to hold a pro-nuclear discourse, because there is not one, but three entry keys: consumption control, decarbonation, and the diversification of the electric mix. We assume our choice of an electric mix that is neither predominantly nuclear nor mainly renewable energy: a balanced electrical mix between nuclear production and intermittent production. This approach has been validated by the French. We have a road map, the EPP, which allows the closure of one to two nuclear reactors every two years until 2035. It's consistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u72	Please conclude, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u73	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We are committed to this. These are reactor closures and not sites. I think we should say hello to him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u74	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u75	I regret that these amendments are being discussed jointly. I understand that competition from two opposing opinions will make it easier for the majority, but we should have had separate discussions because the proposals are different. Mr Colas-Roy, the three objectives of the EPP must converge towards one: saving the planet. If your intermediate objectives differ, it is because your strategy is not coherent. Diversification must lead to decarbonisation; If it leads to a recarbonation, you're wrong! That is where we do not agree: since nuclear energy is decarbonised, it would be counterproductive to replace it with carbonised resources. We can do diversification differently: the real problem is the fossil. Mr rapporteur, you said that with a nuclear power plant which accounts for 75% of French electricity production, we had all our eggs in the same basket. However, it accounts for only 16% of final energy consumption. When you announce that we're going from 16 to 10 percent, you're finally dealing with only 10 percent of the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u76	Hey, yeah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u77	In my opinion, you should spend much more time on the remaining 90%!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u78	It's up to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u79	In fact, you are devoting significant financial resources to a reduced effect. You say that nuclear must remain one of the pillars of our energy policy. I agree, but we must draw the consequences and reflect on the critical threshold below which you will no longer be able to retain know-how, while disorganizing the electrical system. I do not blame renewable energies so much for being expensive – this is a matter of budgetary choices, even if we have to be vigilant because they are also reflected in the French budget. Above all, I note that, over a certain threshold of integration or absorption, you will have problems with network management, negative prices and storage. Today, no one has solved the storage problem. There are people to say that they are convinced that in four or five years' time the problem will be solved. All right, but I'm not basing an energy strategy on predictions at Nostradamus, but on facts. I have also heard false things, for example, about the lifespan of forty years. First, Mr. Lachaud, we are not talking about "security" but about nuclear "safety". There is no "danger," but rather a "risk."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u80	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u81	Nuclear power may be dangerous, but the question is whether you control the risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u82	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u83	I will take advantage of the consideration of the other amendments to continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u84	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u85	I support Mr Julien Aubert's amendment, which is pragmatic with regard to multi-annual energy programming. It clearly sets the objective of the energy transition in law, with the target of 95% decarbonated electricity in the electric mix. This leaves the possibility of following the scenario proposed in the EPP of a 50% reduction in the share of nuclear energy in the energy mix, but it also makes it possible to follow others, depending on the results of future research on the various electrical productions. This does not enshrine a single scenario in the law; We can follow yours, but we can also follow others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u86	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u87	I agree with Mr Aubert on one point: we should have dealt separately with these amendments for joint discussion. As far as we are concerned, we are in favour of an exit from carbon energy, but we are not in favour of Mr Aubert's logic of maintaining nuclear energy. Our position is not unrealistic: on the contrary, if we defend it, it is out of realism. I say this after hearing our colleague from the La République Group on the move and, to a certain extent, the rapporteur explain to us that nuclear energy ensures the safety – or safety – of France. From my point of view, that is what is unrealistic because, in fact, our nuclear industry relies on the extraction of an ore that is not found in France. It comes in particular from a country called Niger. You probably know that Niger is located in the Sahel region.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u88	[[Smile]] It's nice of you to keep us informed! I think it's in Africa? Did I win?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u89	Today it is one of the most volatile areas on the planet, and therefore we do not benefit from any security of supply. From this point of view, it is not realistic at all to continue to depend on such a source. From the point of view of safety, even for the power stations in our territory, there is also a problem, as has been shown by many actions of environmental associations. Today, power plants are not secure as they should be. In particular, the procedures and subcontracting processes, which have been under way for many years, weaken the safety of the installations – I refer you in particular to Greenpeace's actions. The exit of nuclear energy as proposed is backed by a set of alternative sources of renewable energy. This solution is not unrealistic. It is based in particular on very serious scenarios developed by associations like negaWatt...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u90	Thank you, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u91	...that articulate renewables and sobriety. This is realism, in the face of the climate emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u92	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u93	Our goal is to reduce the share of nuclear power generation to 30% by 2035. On that date, where will Germany be? At 0 % nuclear power, and it will be almost closing its last coal-fired power plants. Tomorrow, France's energy mix will remain unique, we will remain isolated. I accept that since this is the meaning of my amendment, but I note that in 2035 we will still be the European country for which the share of nuclear power in electricity production will be the highest. The trajectory we propose is therefore not utopian. Our neighbours, the Swiss, the Germans, perhaps the Belgians, and all the others, like the Italians, will have switched to renewable electricity without nuclear power.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u94	But at what cost!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u95	As for the risk, it is true, it is the right word: it is not "danger". "Risk" means something. Since I was born, the world has already experienced three nuclear disasters, one on the American continent, one on the east of Europe and one on the Asian continent. Who can believe that another disaster will not occur in the next fifty years? Who can say today that we are not taking a huge risk? Dear Mr. Colas-Roy, you're talking about a blackout risk. I understand your fear, but what is this risk to nuclear risk? The risk of blackout is not neutral. He may be at the origin of difficulties or even dramas, but they will be limited in time, for a few days. Go to Fukushima, go to Chernobyl and ask how long it lasts! We propose a balanced trajectory that will retain France's leading share of nuclear production.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u96	Thank you, Mr. Lambert...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u97	I'm offering 30% nuclear in 2035!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u98	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u99	I stressed in the general discussion that, given the situation of the energy mix and the postponement to 2035 of the 50% nuclear target in electricity generation, we were going to face even greater uncertainties and tensions than a few years ago. This is confirmed at the turn of our debate. As early as 2015, the Communist deputies claimed that their position on the 50% target depended on the security of supply of electricity to the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u100	Ah! Explain it to unsuspecting France!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u101	This is crucial for the economic balance and the "social" security of the right to energy in the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u102	Yes! We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u103	For us it is a red line. We also suspended our agreement on the progress of sobriety in energy, i.e. on efforts to reduce energy consumption. For us, this is the main point of entry into the ecological transition. We also stressed the need to rebalance our mix in favour of non-carbon renewables – because there are good renewables and bad ones. From what I have heard, our majority colleague will vote in favour of Amendment No 649, which will be called later. It makes the decline in the share of nuclear energy conditional on the non-use of fossil fuels, which could be used in the event of a decline in overall production. If we shut down our nuclear power plants, but we continue to use carbonic energy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u104	Thank you, Mr. Wulfranc...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u105	...we're not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u106	[[Smile]] Very nice discipline, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u107	Mr Vincent Thiébaut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u108	I will not repeat what the Minister of State and Jean-Charles Colas-Roy have said, which I fully support. As a member of the Committee of Inquiry into Renewable Energy, I would like to stress one element mentioned by Mr Wulfranc: social acceptability. The postponement decision is clearly realistic and pragmatic. We have discussions about the real cost of nuclear power: there is the cost of production, the cost of dismantling, the cost of storage... There are many uncertainties. The Committee of Inquiry also notes that the development of renewable energy, which is currently financed by interesting contract systems, knowing that, in the long run, some NRAs will no longer need subsidies, allows the French people to have socially acceptable energy. This is an important point, which is not mentioned enough. Today, we cannot measure the cost of nuclear energy: there are different studies, various figures are circulating. But it is certain that what will not be paid for by the price of consumption will be paid through taxes and taxes. The development of renewable energy will also help to regulate prices and thus ensure the social acceptability of energy. It is true that the concept of ENR covers different energies, some having already matured, such as photovoltaics, which should be able to dispense with subsidies within ten years, others not. I therefore support the position of the Government. Furthermore, in the light of the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry into Renewable Energy, I find that Mr Aubert's amendment is not pragmatic or even realistic, just as that of La France insoumée, which does not shed light on the question: all are in dogmatic positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u109	I put to the vote Amendment No. 630.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u110	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 62 Number of votes cast 55 Absolute majority 28 For adoption 5 Against 50
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u111	Amendments Nos 195 and 196 have not been defended, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u112	If, my dear colleague, we have caught up, all the amendments have been defended. Some of you may have been surprised to discuss such opposing amendments together, but it is precisely because they are contradictory that they are presented in a joint debate: to allow everyone to speak. Otherwise, if the first amendment were adopted, the following authors would not have been able to speak. All this is very coherent and very logical. Let us continue our work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u113	Excellent president!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u114	That's not fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u115	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 804, 97, 127, 805 and 494, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 97 and 127 are identical. Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 804.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u116	This amendment proposes to reduce from 2035 to 2030 the year in which the share of nuclear power generation is to be reduced to 50%. The previous government had not acted for the reduction of nuclear power, that is an undeniable fact. The 2025 target cannot therefore be met. The Government and the current majority are choosing to postpone this target by 10 years. Is this the best choice for the nation, the most responsible and reasonable choice? My answer is no, because our energy system suffers from a vulnerability due to its excessive dependence on nuclear electricity. A decision by the Nuclear Safety Authority requiring the closure of a number of power plants for a generic risk, for a more or less prolonged period of time, is not immune. And, in addition to the security risks, there are risks related to climate change – I would like to point out that due to the current heat wave, several plants are stationary along the Rhone – and the risks caused by the continued and unsustainable production of nuclear waste in the long term. So we need another scenario than the one proposed by the bill: this is the TEN Ampere scenario. It achieves the target of 50% nuclear power by 2030, without increasing greenhouse gas emissions, without using additional thermal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u117	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 97.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u118	I'm taking it off, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u119	I call Mr Matthieu Orphelin to support Amendment No. 127.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u120	Indeed, there are different options: the 2035 deadline, included in the bill, but also, as Delphine Batho has just pointed out, the TEN Ampère or Ampère Plus scenario, which aims to reduce to 50% by 2030, without increasing or even lowering CO2 emissions, and without of course launching new means of thermal production. This is another path, which I think is preferable for many reasons. It is, of course, even stronger than the Government's scenario in reducing energy consumption, and therefore requires even more effort, but it also encourages us to be economically more profitable, through the faster closure of several nuclear power plants, thereby avoiding additional costs associated with security, extension and other costs. The Ampère scenario is supported by many actors, including, of course, Climate Action Network associations. This is a credible and economically interesting scenario. That is why my amendment puts it in competition with the one in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u121	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 805.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u122	There is another logic, and again, it seems to me that these amendments should not be the subject of a joint debate. The first relates to the date, the second relates to the legal characterization of the date proposed by the Government. This fallback amendment is therefore part of the scenario that you have chosen, Minister of State, and proposes to include in the law the cap on nuclear capacity installed in 2035, that is, 52.2 gigawatts, after an intermediate step of 57.8 gigawatts in 2030, which will clarify the legal scope of the provisions that our Assembly is adopting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u123	I call Mr Matthieu Orphelin to support Amendment No. 494.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u124	Delphine Batho introduced the issue of the nuclear capacity ceiling in 2035, in this case 52.2 gigawatts, compared to about 62 gigawatts today. The advantage of including it in the law was debated in committee, which would mean giving concrete scope to the goal of reducing the share of nuclear energy to 50% by 2035. We had withdrawn our amendments because the rapporteur had proposed that we work together to arrive at a common text, but I would like to know what is happening at this stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u125	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u126	Disfavorable on all these amendments. Mr Orphelin, we have indeed discussed in committee the capping of nuclear production capacity, but I would point out that the EPP clearly foresees the closure of fourteen reactors by 2035, knowing that the EPP is a decree which is binding on EDF as well as on any company concerned, with EDF having an obligation to draw up a compatible strategic plan. Incorporating such a limit in the legislation could provide the basis for claims from EDF, which would be a burden on the taxpayer. In addition, setting the deadline of 2035 would open the door to a gradual reduction of the ceiling at the discretion of the majorities, at the risk of making it a political object rather than the indicator of a coherent path, as we propose, in terms of energy transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u127	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u128	These amendments are in line with the previous ones. The opinion is therefore unfavourable. We're not going to change the trajectory, change the deadlines, change the ceilings... But it is important to clarify several things. First point: it is not the ceiling that will trigger the closure of power plants. The ceiling applies only to new power plant openings, it has no effect on closures. There are other mechanisms – I think Mrs Batho has tabled amendments on operating authorisations – but, I repeat, the ceiling itself has no effect on the existing fleet other than a posting effect reflecting a political decision. Mr Orphelin referred to associations: some have been fighting for years for the closure of power plants, it is even their main object, but when we decide, they do not even raise it! Perhaps they could say that, even if it doesn't go fast enough, we are the first French government to shut down a nuclear power plant! All the more so as it could continue to function: it is therefore a political will. Lionel Jospin's government had closed Superphenix, but it was an experimental reactor. We've been running reactors for forty years. Second point: Mr Orphelin talks about an alternative scenario that would allow the date to be moved forward to 2030, but he is well placed to know that this scenario is based on really drastic assumptions about electricity consumption. If reactors are to be shut down faster without opening up thermal power stations, this implies a very strong pressure on demand and a very proactive reliance on renewable energies. I think that, unlike some associations, you recognize the Government's commitment to renewable energy development, Mr. Orphelin. I would point out that in the debate last night, some of your colleagues even felt that it was going too fast and that we were doing too much... But in any case, everyone knows that wind farms do not come out of the land on their own. We can't say, "Next year, we're doing so much! Even though it has been slightly reduced, the delay is long. As for offshore wind farms, with a large installed capacity, the installation time is very long – don't we talk about it in France for ten years? That is why I always stand for a balanced and realistic position in relation to production and consumption.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u130	And then I would like to remind – Mr Wulfranc has done so, and I thank him for it – that the electricity market still has a special feature: production and consumption must always coincide. As no one has found at the moment a large-scale storage mode, it is impossible to do, for example, in the automobile market where, in case of excess production over demand, vehicles can be stored. Car manufacturers don't like the stock, but they can do it! Electricity, on the other hand, cannot be stored. And if ever, contrary to the previous example, demand is higher than supply, it is not enough to "light" a nuclear power plant to respond immediately! Members who highly praise the merits of nuclear power are well aware, beyond any consideration of risk, that a nuclear power plant cannot adapt very quickly to changes in demand. I often hear about the variability of production with regard to intermittent renewable energies, but there is also variability in consumption. And for every consumption peak, we need to have other capabilities in support of the nuclear fleet. The Government shares the concern expressed by Mr. Colas-Roy, Mr. Thiébaut and Mr. Wulfranc that the balance between supply and demand should be realistic. And, I repeat, in the field of energy, this balance cannot be achieved in one year, two years or three years: only ten years of programming can make it possible both to complete the energy transition and to maintain the security of electricity supply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u132	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u133	I regret that I was able to defend only one of the three amendments that I mentioned in the general debate, but I still want to speak because there are things that are being said about nuclear power which at some point push us to set foot in the ground. First, I recall that our country has a Nuclear Safety Authority. Therefore, to say that extending a power plant beyond forty years would put the population at risk is to do catastrophism, play on fears and disavow the Nuclear Safety Authority. We have to stop this kind of speech. If they are prolonged, it is that experts, whose profession it is, have validated it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u134	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u135	Secondly, I recall that some countries are extending their nuclear power plants beyond forty years. That this was not originally planned does not mean that it is impossible. The United States extends them to sixty years and even more. Thirdly, safety and security should not be confused. We are talking about nuclear safety here. Security consists of avoiding terrorist attacks and has nothing to do with the work of the NSA. Fourthly, danger should not be confused with risk. When you board a plane, it's dangerous: you're in an object heavier than the air, and yet you're flying. However, this is not very risky, as the number of aircraft accidents is much lower than the number of road accidents. Risk and danger are often confused. In the field of nuclear energy, the role of the NSA is to limit not the danger but the risk, and to indicate the precautions to be taken to prevent an accident from occurring. From this point of view, the report it publishes each year demonstrates that the risk is under control. With regard to the cost of the big carenage – I repeat the EUR 100 billion that Mr Lachaud put forward earlier – it is similar to what we plan to invest, over twenty years, to raise the share of wind energy in electricity generation to 15%, without disturbing anyone. On the other hand, 100 billion, over twenty years, to produce 75% of our electricity through nuclear energy, a proportion that is five times higher, it is estimated that it is too expensive! At some point, the costs of generating electricity must be reported. As far as nuclear waste is concerned, it is wrong to say that we do not have a solution. We have a project, which we will discuss in a few years' time: the Cigeo project. Whether or not the nuclear power plants are stopped, the waste is there. The two problems must therefore be disconnected. For my part, I believe that a minimum level of nuclear energy should be provided. Low-ceiling nuclear power is not a solution. In any case, it takes a floor and walls for France's industrial strategy to ensure our energy independence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u136	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u137	Minister of State, the problem with the statutory ceiling is that it only concerns openings of new nuclear reactors, not their closure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u138	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u139	The purpose of the amendments is to introduce a ceiling to legally base decisions on the closure of reactors and the repeal of operating authorisations. Mr rapporteur, the law in force requires the State to pay compensation to the operator, which is constitutional in nature. The only way out of this situation is to change EDF status. For my part, I am in favour of it, but by keeping a fully integrated group, not by saucissoning it into two entities. We see here that the debate on the future of EDF and the debate on the state's ability to decide on the reduction of the nuclear fleet are intimately linked.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u140	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u141	In my view, the inclusion in the law of a ceiling on the production of nuclear energy by 2035 has nothing to do with a political display. Above all, it is a guard to ensure that we are moving in that direction. With regard to the Ampère + scenario, it was not developed by NGOs, but by TEN – Electricity Transmission Network.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u142	The Minister of State did not say otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u143	There are several hypotheses!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u144	Working on the balance between supply and demand is an integral part of his profession. This scenario seems quite credible to me. I understand that the Government has made another choice for political reasons, but this scenario is nonetheless credible. As far as NGOs are concerned, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate them. I see – if I put myself for a moment in the place of the Minister of State – that it is not easy, when we are in charge, to give satisfaction to the NGOs, who are asking more and more. However, the fight they have waged for so many years is necessary. Many of the concrete measures provided for in this and other legislation are the result of their early mobilization. If it is not easy to be responsible, it is happy that NGOs are there to move things forward. With regard to the 50% reduction in the share of nuclear power generation, I still think that we can target 2030. This implies – I agree with the Minister of State on this point – that we should do much more in terms of energy sobriety and reduced consumption.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u145	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u146	We must take on a strong political increase in public and private investment aimed at plunged more rapidly into a decline in energy consumption in the years to come. This is a choice of investment, which we will profit in the medium term. I'm not saying we're doing nothing, but we could do much more.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u147	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u148	All this inspires me an observation: only our House has such debates! We're in the nuclear trap. Whatever our colleague Aubert says, there is a huge risk. Adding waste to existing ones – and trouble to trouble – is not a problem, he says: yes, it is! We're in the nuclear trap. Our energy production is structurally captive to a model that has no flexibility. Its terrifying rigidity locks us in a perspective without room for manoeuvre. The choice we are about to make, whether or not to adopt the amendments – which I support – presented by our colleagues Orphelin and Batho, is to prevent any of those who are my age from sitting in this Chamber in 2035...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u149	[[Smile]] Speak for yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u150	...but I wish the young people to sit there again! – we still have no room for manoeuvre in electrical production. This means that if we do not adopt the provisions of the amendments for 2035, those who will be responsible in 2030 will extend the role of nuclear power in our electricity production until 2050. We are under the control of a completely rigid mode of electric power generation, which prevents us from being agile and from grasping the opportunities that arise. Worse: it locks the reflection on France's energy policy in the alternative between electricity and other sources of energy, such as gas and heat from biomass, of which I recall that they can be stored.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u151	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u152	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 229.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u153	This amendment, of which Marine Brenier is the first signatory, aims to clarify the alternative resources that will be used to offset the reduction in the use of fossil fuels and nuclear energy. It proposes to encourage the framework for the decarbonisation of the economy and the energy transition to renewable energy, in order to ensure the protection of the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u154	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u155	Request for withdrawal. The amendment is satisfied. Fossil energies will be replaced by clean and renewable energies. That is the meaning of the energy transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u156	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u157	We had the debate last night. Moreover, the legal definition of the word "own" does not seem convincing to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u158	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 383.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u159	Through this amendment, we propose to include in the legislation the abandonment of EPR – Evolutionary Power Reactor projects. It is necessary to move out of the nuclear power plant methodically, which means not to build new power plants, and therefore to abandon EPR's projects, particularly that of Flamanville, especially since the latter – as the CEO of EDF has announced – suffers from a further delay, due to the need to resume eight weldings, at the request of the ASN. The development of the EPR is a failure. The first reactor was started in Olkiluoto, Finland. It was scheduled to enter service in 2009. He's been ten years behind schedule. The initial cost tripled, reaching EUR 10 billion and resulting in near-bankruptcy in Areva. History repeats itself with the EPR of Flamanville, France: it will cost 11 billion and has taken years of delay. The construction site causes problems, caused in particular by anomalies in the tank and defective welds. In these circumstances, is it reasonable to launch a new project at Hinkley Point, UK? In the nuclear field, the French strategy is based on an absurd logic of strong overcapacity of the system, correlated with the bet of a large export, to the point of tripling the export balance and devoting a quarter of the means of production to it. As a result, the low prices required for massive exports will not pay properly for the extension of nuclear power plants – the cost of which will increase – or for new renewable energy capacities. In short, the transition to 100% renewable energy cannot take place as long as French policy aims to save the nuclear soldier. The amendment comes from a realistic and pragmatic point of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u160	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u161	Dear colleague, when you speak out against the EPR, you demonstrate the effectiveness of the ASN, which has voted on the projects to be completed. It was essential to await the completion of the Government's work with the French nuclear industry in 2021. It includes the demonstration of EDF's ability to master an industrial programme of new reactors, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the expertise on the future costs of EDF's proposed new EPR2 reactor model, as well as the technical-economic comparison of nuclear energy with other low-carbon electricity production modes. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u162	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u163	I have already argued on this point. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u164	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u165	Our amendment is not about the ASN. It cannot therefore be used as an argument to repel it. Mr rapporteur, we still have to wait, you say. So you're proposing to wait until the bill for the current projects gets bigger and new problems arise before we realize what we already know – that these projects are not viable. In addition, your answer is a perfect illustration of the Government's strategy: waiting, or even attentism, despite the need to get out of nuclear power and to confront the problems posed by climate change in a planned and coherent manner. That's the problem! Minister of State, we do not question the fact that you feel that you have a realistic position, to the point of adopting a rather contemptuous attitude towards us. We question the very logic behind your strategy, which is supposed to be more realistic than that of others, to wait as climate change accelerates. Refusing to take this question with arms is a political choice. The rejection of our amendment to abandon the EPR is a perfect illustration of this. Yet it is well known that, in concrete terms, these projects are an industrial and economic waste and failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u166	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 649.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u167	[[Smile]] Since my remarks this morning are just ringing in Mr. Minister of State's ear, I could almost ask Mr. Colas-Roy to defend him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u168	Why don't you ask Mr. Mélenchon, dear colleague? You're partners!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u169	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] He's obsessing you! Breathe!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u170	I didn't expect to open hostilities!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u171	[[Laughs on various benches]] We're listening to you, Mr. Wulfranc. Don't let it impress you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u172	On the contrary, Mr. President! In terms of reducing the share of nuclear power to 50% of electricity generation, the challenge is to ensure that it will not lead to the use of fossil fuels. Therefore, we propose that paragraph 7 be supplemented by the words "and are added with the words "subject to strict compliance with greenhouse gas emission reduction targets". Mr rapporteur, you could fully support this amendment. Moreover, you clearly defended it earlier, when you specified the general objectives of a fall on the part of nuclear power. This is a very good amendment of the Communist Members of Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u173	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u174	Colleagues, this very good amendment of the Communist Members of Parliament is satisfied with the very good bill that we are debating. So we close the coal-fired power plants,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u175	Thanks to an article you didn't vote for, Mr. Wulfranc!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u176	...we are facilitating the deployment of renewable energies and we are planning to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050. I suggest that the amendment be withdrawn and, failing that, an unfavourable opinion will be issued.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u177	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u178	We can't always agree with Mr. Wulfranc! In this case, as the rapporteur has pointed out, the amendment is satisfied, in particular with the national low-carbon strategy, the multiannual energy programming and the first decisions we have taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u179	[[Smile]] You don't give me any flowers!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u180	I therefore expect you to give even greater support to the closure of coal-fired power stations, Mr Wulfranc. It seems to me that you did not vote for the article on the closure of coal-fired power stations when the text was examined in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u181	We'll get back to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u182	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u183	I call Mr Bolo to support Amendment No. 509.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u184	Article 1 outlines the new energy landscape, in particular French electricity production, by 2035. This very simple amendment aims to include in the energy code the principle of the combination of our nuclear power plants that remained open in 2035 and hydroelectric dams with the existing network, as an effective means of dealing with the variability of renewable energies, which will complement the energy mix.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u185	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u186	I share this vision, which is based on complementarity between the different energies. The TEN scenarios show that a target of 50% reduction in nuclear power by 2030 is achievable. I do not think it is appropriate to add these purely declarative considerations to the energy code. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u187	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u188	We have already discussed this issue in committee. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u189	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 483.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u190	With this amendment, we wish to express our wish to see the Fessenheim nuclear power plant closed on 1 September 2020. Minister of State, you committed to shutting down this plant in two steps – in March 2020 for the first reactor; in August 2020, for the second. We believe that there is an urgent need to start the exit of nuclear power. It should be noted that the proposed scenario is twice as slow as those of TENs, which meet the criteria of security of supply and control of carbon dioxide. By 2035, the forty-four reactors still in operation will reach the average age of 49 years. Ten of them will be over 50 years old. This represents a possible resurgence of major hazards and a significant additional cost associated with calving. All this will be done at the expense of the energy transition to 100% renewable energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u191	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u192	I invite you to withdraw your amendment. The final shutdown is scheduled for spring 2020, although the commissioning of the Flamanville RPD was further delayed. Incorporating a stop date into the law seems unnecessary and unoperational.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u193	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u194	I confirm what Mrs Taurine herself said: the desired decision has already been taken. The judgment must even take place before the date proposed in the amendment. I therefore suggest that you withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u195	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u196	The aim of Mr. Descoeur's amendment is to highlight the strategic role of the agricultural sector in achieving the Government's new climate objectives. He stressed the need to increase and support the production of green energy from biomass, which would become increasingly important. These produced energies are rooted in the territories, and provide additional income to farmers, all of which are key issues for the agricultural sector, which it was essential to integrate into the general reflections of the draft law on energy and climate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u197	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u198	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u199	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u200	As the amendment is largely satisfied with the national low-carbon strategy, I would ask you to withdraw it. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u201	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u202	This amendment and No 48, which will then be called upon, aim to bring the target of the energy renewal policy of the housing stock back to 2040, instead of 2050. It must be noted that we are not making much progress in the rehabilitation of thermal colanders. This is not necessarily your immediate responsibility, Minister of State, but we are struggling to take off. These amendments are therefore trying to drive a dynamic forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u203	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u204	Unfavorable opinion. You want to make our renovation goals more ambitious and release all E, F and G units in 2035. Unfortunately, as you know, this is not realistic. However, we have adopted a number of amendments in committee, which will give impetus to the energy renewal process. Today, we will discuss several amendments in this direction – the discussions will certainly be very interesting and enriching. There is a need for operational measures, I am convinced. I think you share this analysis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u205	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u206	Unfavorable opinion. I fully agree with the rapporteur's argument. We will discuss this issue with a future article on energy renewal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u207	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u208	I had tabled amendments along the same lines as Mrs Battistel's. I withdraw them, after this speech and pending debate on this subject. As the Minister of State said yesterday, he will present an amendment on this subject, together with the rapporteur. We will see whether this is a good compromise – I hope – or a minimal compromise. Help us to work properly: we cannot receive this amendment, whether we vote at the end of the afternoon or tonight, an hour or two before discussing it in the sitting. We only hear noises about what might be included in it. We must find out as quickly as possible and study it for at least a few hours, in order to inform the parliamentary debate by being aware of it, and to see whether or not it responds to our concerns. I would remind you that the current law, that of 2015, already includes the obligation to renovate F- or G-class housing before 2025, without performance targets or incentive tools. We need to see how this compromise allows us to go much further and achieve what we had entered into the 2017 program, what candidate Emmanuel Macron was wearing: the renovation of half of the energy sieves by 2022 and their eradication in ten years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u209	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u210	I share the objective of Mrs Battistel's amendments. Article 1 reaffirms the importance of the construction sector in achieving our carbon reduction and, more generally, climate ambition objectives. So we have to move forward, not at all. Setting a new date will not make it possible to move forward. On the contrary, the work we are going to do earlier will allow us to really get into the concrete. We can, however, welcome the consensus that has emerged for an ambitious energy renewal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u211	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u212	In view of the elements given and pending the future debate, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u213	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 651.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u214	In terms of energy renewal, we need to move quantitatively and qualitatively to a much higher stage. Everyone agrees on this objective and to consider that the package of work needed to achieve it must be coherent and precisely defined. The 7° of article L. 100-4 of the Energy Code refers to "standards " low-consumption building " or assimilated. We would like to replace "or assimilated" with "defined by decree". This assimilation is likely to give rise to further discussions on the quality of the thermal rehabilitations considered.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u215	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u216	Request for withdrawal. These standards are already defined by regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u217	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u218	Same explanation, same position.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u219	Mrs Battistel, are you defending Amendment No 48?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u220	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u221	Amendment No 157 by Mr Dino Cinieri is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u222	I have before me two amendments, Nos 118 and 120, which can be presented together. Mr Matthieu Orphelin has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u223	I'll take them off.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u224	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 475.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u225	Article L. 100-4 of the Energy Code states that the objective of the national energy policy is "to achieve energy autonomy in the overseas departments by 2030, with, as an intermediate objective, 50% renewable energy by 2020". In a May 2019 report, taken up by La Première-mer, the Environment and Energy Management Agency – ADEME – makes the terrible observation that the Overseas Territories will not reach this target by 2030: "For example, the Réunion should deploy 1000 megawatts of photovoltaic energy in 15 years, while the current multi-annual energy programming has a target of 120 megawatts by 2023. » The aim of this amendment is therefore to set the target date for energy autonomy in the overseas departments by 2030, instead of the 2030 deadline. Indeed, by definition and as seems to be the case in recent times, the horizon is an imaginary line that moves backwards as we move forward. The postponement of the target of 50% nuclear energy to 2035 instead of 2025, as candidate Macron had committed himself to doing, shows this. We wish to reaffirm here the State's willingness to give the ultra-marine territories all the resources necessary to fulfil this legal obligation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u226	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u227	Request for withdrawal. We have to give ourselves a little flexibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u228	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u229	This debate has already taken place yesterday, after a speech by Mr Serville. Our objective is to develop renewable energy in the overseas territories. The amendment is therefore satisfactory and I will ask for it to be withdrawn. Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u230	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u231	The objective of energy autonomy for the overseas departments by 2030, with 100% renewable energy, must be maintained – I would point out that the interim target of 50% renewable energy by 2020 is up to 75% renewable energy by 2025. These energies must be 100% specific in these territories, which excludes, as from 1 January 2020, any carrying out of climate and eco-cidal projects, in particular any project for the incineration of household waste, including under the sweet name of "energy recovery of waste". We need to know that a waste incinerator produces just 2% of electricity, for many environmental damage and several hundred million euros spent, while we could continue to support photovoltaics, more than we already do, and boost the thermal energy of the seas. In addition, the estimated costs do not take into account the pharaonic amount associated with the treatment of ultimate waste, which is toxic. Furthermore, there is no provision for the association of cement plants with the incinerator, although this requirement is required on national and European territory. Why is such an exception granted to the overseas departments? Finally, to allow this machine to operate, we should keep the volume of our waste constant, and therefore avoid sorting, so as not to add it. It would be, you will agree, a total heresy. It is therefore necessary to defend a virtuous model and reversible structures, dimensioned to local needs, and designed to be easily adaptable and modular. Above all, we must use technologies with the lowest impact on the environment, given the island context, especially for hazardous and ultimate waste from incineration. In the area of sustainable development and circular economy, our overseas departments must be pioneers and, in no way, second zone territories, where what is no longer acceptable in metropolitan France and Europe would be achieved. This amendment therefore contributes to the successful implementation of the Overseas Trajectory 5.0, which the Government has impulsed on 8 April 2019, following the 2018 Overseas Assises and the Overseas Blue Book, including its zero-waste, zero-carbon targets.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u232	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u233	Unfavorable opinion. The best way to manage waste is to produce as little as possible. In addition, since authorised landfills are sometimes close to saturation, incineration with energy recovery can be a solution to consider. It does not seem appropriate to prohibit any project for the production of energy from waste from now on.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u234	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u235	I consider your amendment to be an appeal amendment designed to highlight two problems facing Réunion: waste treatment on the one hand, and electricity generation on the other. Some imagine making a stone two blows by producing electricity from the incineration of waste. I would like to say that our policy is not aimed at developing electricity generation through waste incineration, but waste must be treated, both in metropolitan France and overseas – the first of many incinerators that do not always recover heat. Our policy is to reduce waste at the source, i.e. to sort and recycle as much as possible, both in metropolitan France and overseas, especially in islands where the problem is acute – what is not dealt with on the spot must go back by boat and follow recycling lines. With regard to electricity generation, the overseas region has specific features: the absence of nuclear energy, a large number of thermal power plants – oil, coal – and, in addition, each territory is the subject of a multiannual clean energy programme. We have undertaken, in collaboration with local elected representatives, to revise these documents – the overseas region is experiencing the same movement as the metropolis. On the other hand, we are trying to change the functioning of non-interconnected areas, which tend to favour the renewal of power generation units by thermal power plants, rather of large capacity. I have received the President of the region and I am aware of the differences of opinion among elected officials – I do not know how you stand on this subject, Madam Member. We are going to move forward with each other to solve both the problem of waste and the problem of electricity generation, without linking the two. The solution does not lie in the adoption of an amendment to this law. It must be part of the multiannual energy programming.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u236	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u237	I am speaking here for my colleague Ericka Bareigts. Of course, we agree with the objective of recycling waste and the circular economy that you are talking about, dear colleague. But the overseas territories are, I would remind you, unconnected areas. In addition, the deadline you set is totally unrealistic. How can the ban on incineration of waste be enforced in such a short period of time? In addition to oil and coal, La Réunion has a clean energy source, the huge Takamaka dam for which expansion programmes could be created. If the objective you set is relevant, the deadlines you impose are far too short. We will therefore oppose this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u238	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u239	We have with the sun a natural resource, use it, take the time to study photovoltaics. The objective is absolutely not unattainable: the roofs of the farms that Vincent Descoeur mentioned can be a solution; Some individuals install panels and become self-sufficient in electricity. The Meeting was probably one of the first French territories to set up a sorting system a long time ago. I fear that the installation of the incinerator will send a bad signal to the public – it may deter it from further sorting and encourage it to produce the waste necessary to run a machine that will demand a volume of 120000 tonnes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u240	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u241	It is not possible to introduce a circular economy approach in the face of a giant Moloch installed for twenty years. This is the case in Marseille: we have an incinerator with a capacity of 400,000 tonnes, the volume of all the household waste in the city. Any policy of waste reduction or recycling in a logic of circular economy is somehow doomed to failure, since the operator needs these 400,000 tonnes of waste to power his machine. I have noted the objections to the over-general nature as well as the deadline, but we have to provide an appropriate response to La Réunion and the other islands – I will let Jean-Félix Acquaviva evoke Corsica. Otherwise, no circular economy approach will ever be undertaken. If there is a place where the circular economy – I remind you, it is about rethinking our models according to the available resources and avoiding importing, exporting and wasting – can find its place, it is the island space. We need to set targets in the law to prevent any initiative to emancipate territories that are prisoners of a Moloch that burns their waste from being blocked for generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u242	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 129 and 264. Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 129.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u243	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u244	I call Mrs Sarles, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, to support Amendment No. 264.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u245	The Committee on Sustainable Development has adopted an amendment to encourage and increase the production of hydropower throughout the country. This amendment proposes to clarify that this also concerns self-consumption at existing small-power sites, knowing that demand is strong and that this subject is consensus. Of course, respect for biodiversity and natural environments is a prerequisite.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u246	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u247	I do not think it is desirable to go down to this level of detail in Article 1. Self-consumed renewables are well taken into account in the calculation of renewable energy production.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u248	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support Amendment No. 623.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u249	The aim of this amendment is to put the objective of energy autonomy for Corsica in black and white by 2050, thanks to 100% renewable energy in the long term. This objective can be described as reasonable. It has been included in the regional climate, air and energy scheme since 2013. We could even go further if energy actors and public authorities played the game. Today, some hesitations remain to be lifted, on the one hand, to ensure, in the short term, the security of Corsica's supply and, on the other hand, to initiate, in the longer term, an offensive transition to renewable energies, the path which seems still uncertain. Questions remain about the new power plant, particularly its 250-megawatt size. We have some doubts about the relevance of EDF's consumption forecasts: in fact, they expect growth of 6.4% over the next five years, for a population increase of 3.2%, given that consumption has increased by only 2% over the last five years for a population growth of 4.4%. An error, such as over-sizing, could undermine the economic model of investing in renewable energy. There are also doubts about the construction schedule and the modalities of gas supply. More generally, we are in favour of a change in governance. In order to achieve energy autonomy, certain rules need to be amended – in the area of public procurement, for photovoltaics; on rivers, to develop micro-hydropower – we are very late despite the topography of Corsica; in urban planning, for the installation of photovoltaic plants on degraded sites. To make the energy transition a reality, we must deepen decentralisation by giving Corsica the capacity to enact certain rules – this is the subject of an amendment that I unfortunately cannot defend. Corsica must follow the path of a concrete energy transition based on the decentralization of production and distribution systems, which we believe to be more virtuous from both an environmental and an economic point of view. All these issues underlie this symbolic amendment on energy autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u250	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u251	I do not think it is appropriate to set a specific objective for Corsica in Article L. 100-4 of the Energy Code. Moreover, I am not sure that energy autonomy is the most relevant choice: Corsica's situation is different from that of the overseas countries, since it is connected to the European network through Italy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u252	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u253	Mr. As Acquaviva knows, discussions are taking place between the Government, the territorial community of Corsica and EDF on the generation of electricity and the prospects for transformation. It is not this morning, through an amendment, that we will answer these questions, but the Government shares the objectives that you have mentioned. First of all, Corsica needs to get out of heavy fuel oil; Secondly, solutions must be found with the right dimension: from thermal power plants to gas in the first instance – over-dimensioning leads to over-consumption, which increases greenhouse gas emissions; Thirdly, we must aim at the development of renewable energies in a constrained territory – a territory of both mountains and sea-shores; Fourth, interconnection with Italy ensures security of supply. Even if gas-fired power plants were replaced by renewables, electricity production could not be generated by 100 % of renewable energy as a result of the interconnection with Italy. The work that we have begun, which is long and difficult – many actors come to the debate – should allow us to succeed in the coming weeks. This is the meaning of my exchanges with the president of the territorial community of Corsica. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u254	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u255	I'm astonished at your answer. Our colleague's proposal is to set the ambitious goal of Corsica's energy autonomy, based on renewable energies, in 2050. She's going in the right direction. It is feasible: if, tomorrow, hydroelectric dams are built in all the valleys, they will produce electricity; photovoltaics can also participate in energy autonomy. I am surprised at your answer to the question of Italy. How does Italy produce its electricity? You cannot at the same time want to decarbonize electricity production and, for Corsica, buy carbonated electricity in Italy. It is proposed to end the connection with Italy. The elected representatives show a willingness to move towards decarbonized energy autonomy. They deserve support. I do not see any problem with this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u256	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u257	I have noted Mr. Minister of State's response, which may seem satisfactory, as it is in the direction of dialogue with the community and of addressing the issues that need to be addressed in the short term. However, in the rapporteur's reply, I note a problem not of a technical but of an ideological nature. Whether you like it or not, it is not since Paris that we can define the specificities of Corsica. We need to see them on the spot. In terms of energy, the situation on our island is much closer to that on La Réunion or other overseas islands than on mainland France. It is an objective, technical, economic and environmental reality. I am surprised that we can deny it in this debate. I thought we were past this stage. That's a shame, because we're going to waste more time, when we're going to have to go faster. I would add that we know technically what to do, that investors are ready to commit and that, on the island's energy autonomy, there has been a consensus among the Corsican political class for decades, not a majority. The regional climate air energy scheme I have just mentioned dates back to 2013! I am therefore surprised that we can adopt a vision at this ideological and no technical point, when it comes to decarbonizing in order to safeguard the economic and environmental interests of Corsica and its people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u258	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u259	Two details, for the attention of Mr. Pupponi and Mr. Acquaviva. On the one hand, the interconnection with Italy allows 30% of the needs to be met, which is not negligible. So we can't imagine doing this without carrying out an impact assessment. Like you, Mr Pupponi, I support the construction of dams and the installation of solar panels, but in the same way these decisions cannot be made without an impact assessment. Mr Acquaviva, the multi-annual energy programming, on which consensus has been reached, is not about energy autonomy, let alone renewable energy, but about the release of heavy fuel oil and the renewal of gas-fired power plants. But gas is not produced in Corsica: it is imported at 100%. On the other hand, I stress, because it is not neutral for the price of electricity paid by Corsicans, that we have fought at European level for Corsica to continue to be regarded as a non-interconnecting area, like the overseas islands or the small Breton islands. In fact, we wanted to maintain tariff equalization, which makes it possible not to charge Corsican electricity at the cost of production on the island.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u260	For now!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u261	I see it as a sign of solidarity which you may not call national, Mr. Acquaviva, but which can be called French or territorial. It is the solidarity of all France, including Corsica. However, given the existence of an interconnection with Italy, it could be considered, from a European point of view, that the island was no longer a non-interconnecting area. In short, we have three times defended Corsica. As you know, I am in favour of accelerating the energy transition on all islands, both overseas and in Corsica, including on the small Breton islands, by aiming, as far as possible, for energy autonomy and even renewable autonomy. But we are very far from it: today, 30% of Corsica's energy needs are covered by Italy and the remaining 70% are almost entirely thermal, which is imported and is not autonomous.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u262	It's not serious! My amendment sets a target for 2050!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u263	You have to be precise. In the name of a no-ideological but technical approach, we consider that, even if the amendment is interesting, we do not have a precise impact assessment. Some people can vote to please themselves. For my part, I prefer to solve the concrete problems that arise today, in order to develop renewable energies in Corsica over the long term and to limit greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u264	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 354.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u265	To date, renewable heat production is still too often exclusively assimilated to urban heat networks. However, other avenues are available and need to be taken into account. The amendment, of which Mr Vialay is the first signatory, aims to broaden the range of tools available to develop renewable heat and cold, and to achieve the objectives of the Energy Transition Law for Green Growth, by removing the restrictive notion of heat and cold networks by that of energy distribution networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u266	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u267	We must maintain an objective for the development, encouraged by the European directives, of these cold and heat networks. These are very virtuous: they have many advantages over individual air conditioning or heating systems: energy saving, use of local natural resources, simplicity and security. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u268	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u269	Same argument and same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u270	I have before me two amendments, Nos 239 and 213, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor in support of Amendment No 239.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u271	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u272	I call Mrs Lasserre-David to support Amendment No. 213.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u273	By setting an ambitious installed power target for solar photovoltaics, we are taking the risk of encouraging the development of photovoltaic installations on the ground, while it is imperative to combat the artificialisation of agricultural land. We therefore propose to reorient solar photovoltaics to the building and to develop urban planning documents to better prevent this undesirable effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u274	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u275	This objective is included in the objective of carbon neutrality. I am therefore not in favour of it being included among the main objectives of our energy policy, especially since the energy sector is not responsible for this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u276	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u277	Same argument and same unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u278	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u279	This amendment aims to pay particular attention to the homogenisation of carbon footprint assessment methods. In-depth work needs to be done on the carbon footprint with regard to industrial relocations and greenhouse gas emissions, as well as with regard to negotiated international trade agreements and their impact on imports, including food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u280	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u281	I have already had the opportunity to clarify this: work is under way on methods for quantifying the carbon footprint. In addition, the Commission adopted Article 1e, which sets out targets for reducing our carbon footprint for each period of the National Low Carbon Strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u282	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u283	Same argument, same position.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u284	On Amendment No 765, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me five amendments, Nos 765, 165, 244, 566 and 166, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 244 and 566 are identical. I call Mr Delpon to support Amendment No. 765.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u285	The amendment aims to develop low-carbon and renewable hydrogen. In June 2018, the Government presented its hydrogen deployment plan for the energy transition. It set development objectives for the sector by identifying two main axes: the development of hydrogen mobility through the deployment of territorial fleets and the construction of distribution stations; Decarbonization of industrial hydrogen, with a target of 10% by 2023 and between 20% and 40% by 2028. With this amendment, we propose to supplement Article L. 100-4 of the Energy Code and to lay down in law these ambitious objectives for the development of the hydrogen sector in France, which will allow us to send a strong signal and trigger a dynamic around this solution of the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u286	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 165.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u287	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u288	Amendment No 244 is being defended. Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 566.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u289	After Mr Delpon, I stress the importance of hydrogen, stressing the type of hydrogen to be encouraged. We are proposing to create a dynamic in favour of low-carbon hydrogen, starting with sending a signal. While industrialists may fear certain constraints, they need to know that they are clear, sustainable and sustainable. They will therefore be able to take a time-bound approach to addressing climate issues. Hydrogen is a solution. It all depends on how it is produced. This is the meaning of this amendment, of which Frédérique Dumas is the first signatory, and which was co-signed by a large part of the LT Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u290	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 166.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u291	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u292	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u293	Hydrogen – it is not to Mr Delpon that I will learn – must play a major role in the energy transition either in direct use for industry as well as for mobility, or as a flexibility tool for networks. Mr Delpon, in view of your investment on the subject, which we have discussed a great deal, I am very pleased to deliver an opinion in favour of Amendment No 765.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u294	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u295	I, in turn, express an opinion in favour of Amendment No 765. If the other amendments are converging, it seems to me to be the most suitable way to develop the renewable hydrogen or otherwise decarbonised – in any case hydrogen that does not produce greenhouse gases, like most of the hydrogen produced today. The adoption of the amendment will be a step forward, after the provisions adopted in committee. I welcome the work carried out jointly by the Government, the Commission, the rapporteur and with you, Mr Delpon, and the study group that you have set up in the National Assembly, which brings together deputies of all trends, to promote the hydrogen sector in many new ways. Of course, there are already industrial uses of hydrogen, which are developing on a large scale. Unfortunately, this hydrogen, sometimes referred to as "black", produces greenhouse gases, while there is another one – called "green" – that can perfectly complement renewable energies. Some denounce the variability of wind or solar production. We are talking here about a way that has yet to be developed and which still needs to be reduced, but which allows renewable energy production to be stored and used as an energy vehicle, particularly for transport. At my request, the Government issued a call for projects, which received a grant and was led by ADEME. It has received many projects from all over France, anchored in the territories, which is good news. I hope that, beyond the research effort carried out within my ministry by the CEA – the Office of the Commissioner for Atomic Energy and Alternative Energy – there will also be an industrial development of hydrogen. Within ten years, we must be able to lower costs and develop on a large scale this extremely interesting energy vector, which, when used as a fuel, does not emit any greenhouse gases.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u296	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u297	In my turn and on behalf of the LaREM Group, I would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked on hydrogen, in particular Mr Simian, who has been interested in hydrogen trains, and Mr Zulesi. I recall all the work of the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices on clean mobility, which we have used for the mobility guidance law. A pro-hydrogen scenario has been developed in collaboration with CEA and IFP for new energies. These studies help to improve our commitments in terms of clean mobility and thus hydrogen production. I am grateful to the Government for making commitments, following the hydrogen plan established in 2018. It is good to try to develop new technologies in France. It is about the future of the mobility of the future. Over the next ten years, the Government will take initiatives in favour of hydrogen. Parliamentarians from all sides will be at his side to support them, in order to further decarbonize the energy mix.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u298	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u299	We will vote on Amendment No 765, but it would be good if, from this wave of self-congratulation, some questions were raised, and first of all on the drafting of the amendment. What does "about 20-40%" mean in a piece of legislation? This is not very specific, since the target may vary from simple to double. In the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region, we conduct a multitude of projects, as in the rest of France, such as JUPITER 1000 or INOVAR, in the field of mobility and industry. It is not the same thing to introduce figures on the share of hydrogen in industrial production and to have a broader approach. Are existing installations, which use fossil hydrogen, being targeted by trying to raise the share of green hydrogen to a certain level, or are new applications, particularly in mobility or storage, taken into account, in which case, as soon as the word "hydrogen" appears, the target percentage will have to be reached? This is not exactly the same degree of ambition. I think it would be useful to clarify that. Finally, Minister of State, it seems difficult to follow the example of wind for hydrogen development. Wind energy is already heavily subsidized, and hydrogen is also very expensive. This is a cost, ultimately, very high, and we must pay attention to it. In your comment on biogas yesterday, you alerted us about the difference between the cost of producing gas from methanization and the price of imported gas. Remember, in this regard, the price of the megawatt hour of hydrogen. Hydrogen production can be developed – I am very much in favour of this diversification – but it is a sector that is starting, and there is a lack of industrial players. The question, however, is why we didn't do it for biogas – because it's not just hydrogen, in the gas. [[Smile]] I summarize my three questions. Firstly, why have these measures not been extended to all types of gases? Secondly, does this concern only the industrial hydrogen used today in infrastructure or also tomorrow's applications? Thirdly, why do we have so much gas?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u300	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u301	On behalf of the IDU and Independent Group, I would also like to support this amendment, which responds to a recurring criticism: France would be lagging behind in its hydrogen policy. This provision would undeniably give him an accelerator. That being said, Mr. Minister of State, I would like you to provide us with some clarification. You are calling for a voluntarist policy, which I wish for success, but which unfortunately awakens in me some unfortunate memories. I am thinking in particular of the photovoltaic sector, for which we have the same ambitions. We also wanted to develop French, or at least European, production lines – in this case photovoltaic panels. Unfortunately, we have placed ourselves, through these ambitious objectives, under the dependence of imports of technology, especially Chinese. Hydrogen, on the other hand, transports a little less well. In order to develop this sector, we need to be part of a European framework: in order to achieve our final objectives, we may have to import green hydrogen produced, for example, by our German neighbours, which pursue a proactive policy involving wind energy and hydrogen production. Your clarification would shed light on the concrete modalities for the implementation of this ambitious objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u302	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u303	I will answer the questions raised by Mr. Aubert and Mr. Herth. As far as hydrogen is concerned, it is clear – I repeat – that it is green hydrogen. We obviously do not want to develop the consumption of hydrogen without concern for its production, which is today, without entering into the physico-chemical details, resulting from the cracking of methane, which is also a source of CO. There is no question of following this path, which would be in complete contradiction with our climate policy. Our goal is to develop the hydrogen production chain through water electrolysis, which is perfectly carbon neutral. At present, hydrogen is the subject of important industrial uses. We have, with Air Liquide, a large hydrogen industry. It may be thought that these uses will develop. It can be a substitute energy, for example for the iron or steel or chemical electro or carbo-intensive industries, which use coal or gas. Other uses exist. We therefore wanted to define a general framework, which would make it possible, incidentally, to provide the beneficiaries of subsidies, even if our objective, I insist, is to develop a sector whose costs must be reduced. This framework is inspired by the one we have already put in place in support of other renewable energies: renewable gas – which is why we have not mentioned it –, wind, solar. With this law, if adopted, there will be a framework for hydrogen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u304	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u305	Maybe I didn't speak well. During last night's debate, we proposed raising the share of biogas to 20% of total gas consumption. You told us that we were at 1% today and that we should already try to reach 10%; 20 per cent, in any case, seemed to be far too high. However, we are ready to set a 20% to 40% target for low-carbon and renewable hydrogen, the latter, like biogas, which is expensive. This brings me back to my first question: if we set an ambitious target for green hydrogen, which is a form of gas, why didn't we do the same for biogas yesterday? It's a question of methodology. As far as the industry is concerned, Air Liquide, as you said, is a major user of hydrogen. If the industry is given a 20% to 40% consumption target, this will lead to an increase in Air Liquide's costs. Either the existing industrial production units are designated, which can lead to a problem of competitiveness, or new uses are targeted, which may eventually fall into the category of industry. For example, a hydrogen-powered maritime shuttle linking Toulon to the islands of Gold is more of a transport sector than an industry itself, even if it can be analysed in industrial consumption. We could have set the target of 20% to 40% of consumption for new uses, or even imposed on them the exclusive use of green hydrogen. How do you deal with the question of the competitiveness of economic actors who today use fossil hydrogen, and who you are going to ask to increase to 20% or 40%?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u306	I put to the vote Amendment No. 765.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u307	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 44 Number of votes cast 44 Absolute majority 23 For adoption 44 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u308	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 380.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u309	With this amendment, we propose to set a clear course and target for the energy transition: 100% renewable energy in 2050. Scenarios exist that are serious and realistic. They demonstrate that 100% renewable energy production by 2050 is possible. This is the case with the negaWatt scenario for the entire energy sector and in a fully independent system, i.e. without any exchange with other countries. ADEME also offers a mix of 100% renewable energy for the electricity sector by 2050. These solutions leading to a genuine energy transition can thus be rapidly deployed, at the level of a generation and on a large scale, as long as they are subject to political determination. France affirms not only its will to achieve the energy transition, which is necessary and urgent, but above all intends to give itself the full means by making energy a common good, by putting this essential sector at the service of the general interest and by guaranteeing the democratic debate on energy choices. This can be done, in particular, through the creation of a public energy hub, through the renationalisation of energy companies, in conjunction with cooperatives for the production and consumption of renewable energy. Moving towards a mix of 100% renewable electric energy by 2050 would prevent the market from deciding our energy future. This can be achieved on the basis of planning that gives priority to reducing energy consumption – which would call into question the current productivist model – and to the development of renewable energy chains. This proposal is based on highly thought-out and coherent scientific work. It is not the result of a dogmatic slug or posture, as the members of the majority claim, who obviously have not read our programme or our numerous booklets on the subject...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u310	Yes, we read a lot of things!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u311	...who are very well-worked. They have also not been present during the last two years in all the debates in which we have tabled amendments on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u312	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u313	By amendment No 380, we intend to show that this development is possible if it is the subject of political will. We hope that a majority of this House will show this and vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u314	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u315	Mrs. Obono, I'm afraid to disappoint you. While ADEME published the scenarios for a 100% renewable energy mix in the fields of electricity and gas in 2050, it itself indicated that they were subject to many uncertainties. On the one hand, these studies do not rely on an overall optimisation of the energy system. On the other hand, the assumptions taken to define the potentials of different resources, in particular biomass, are uncertain. That is why I will give an unfavorable opinion on your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u316	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u317	This is the whole debate we have had from the beginning. The arguments have already been made. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u318	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u319	The answer doesn't surprise me much. It is certain that we are facing uncertainties. That is what makes it necessary to have a clear political will to get out of the carbonised energies – I think everyone is absolutely convinced of this – but also from nuclear energy, which is characterized by equally high uncertainty, as recent events show. In addition, I have been alerting for months about the situation of subcontractors in the nuclear sector. Barbara Pompili's report, on behalf of the Committee of Inquiry into the Safety and Security of Nuclear Facilities, also alerts their working conditions, which are not only a danger to them but also a risk to safety and security. A 100% renewable energy level is the only way to be resilient to climate change; Nuclear power plants, for their part, are not. Moreover, nuclear energy is not a clean energy, as we often present it, but on the contrary a dirty energy...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u320	Cleanliness is relative!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u321	[[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] ... especially with regard to waste, which is a huge problem. Fossil energy, on the other hand, is of course an aggravating factor in climate change. We must have the political will to get out of this by 2050: neither carbonised energy nor nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u322	On Amendment No 647, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u323	In paragraph 9, the Commission rightly proposed "to encourage and increase the production of hydropower throughout the territory". We propose to add the words "under public control". This refers to the exchange we had yesterday at the end of the evening. The adoption of this measure would make it possible to clarify definitively the national representation on the hypothesis preferred yesterday, in the Chamber, by the Minister of State, and would give meaning to the work undertaken and its conclusion. Of course, all colleagues who, in one form or another, have come together to support the public control of French hydropower would see the adoption of this amendment as a definitive step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u324	Thank you, my colleague, even though I am not sure that your explanation is directly related to the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u325	If you withdraw from me any amendments without telling me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u326	I'm not taking anything from you, I'm allowing a comment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u327	The amendment is inadmissible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u328	Ah, you declared it inadmissible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u329	I didn't do anything except talk to the meeting department.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u330	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u331	Mr Wulfranc, with all due respect, Amendment No 647 concerns the share of alternative transport of goods by road, which you propose to set at 25% by 2030.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u332	Do we maintain the public vote?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u333	Yes, because it was announced.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u334	I have an opinion against the adoption of Amendment No 647.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u335	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u336	This amendment proposes to return, by 2030, to the share of alternative freight transport to the road initially laid down by the law of 12 July 2010 on national commitment to the environment, i.e. 25%. Public voting is justified for such an amendment. The minister responsible for transport has taken liberties with this objective, reducing it significantly and setting a target of 10.2% for iron and 2.4% for the river, well below the original goals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u337	It's all brightening up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u338	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u339	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u340	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u341	The mobility guidance bill satisfies the amendment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u342	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u343	It's good to set goals, but what are they based on? Greenhouse gases? The trucks? The railroad? The bike? Such an objective is completely disconnected, dear colleague Wulfranc. We proposed an ecotransport, based on the CO level at the bottom of each transport invoice, to weigh and provoke arbitrations, designed to better fill trucks, to develop the fleets of electric trucks, to ensure that the goods did not move. The purpose of the public vote you asked for is to make it appear that those who will vote against your amendment have no ecological conscience and are in favour of the "all-road", and that only those who support it want to fight road transport and greenhouse gases. I will vote against this amendment and will always be an environmentalist, we must not lie to the French. This kind of amendment prevents us from moving forward. On the contrary, we need to act on ecotransport to reduce the CO level at the bottom of the bill, for example by filling trucks better. A strengthening of the railway would require a lot of money, without much result. Today we learn that the train from Perpignan to Rungis will be deleted. So I'm not saying that the railway is fine. He is not doing well, but this type of amendment will not improve his situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u344	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u345	We will obviously vote in favour of Hubert Wulfranc's amendment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u346	Yes, to pretend!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u347	...even if we would have liked to insert the words "and air" after the words "share of alternative transport of goods". Mr Lambert, the railway is going badly: 87% of the goods are transported on the road, which creates an ecological emergency, but also health, since in France, every year, 67,000 people die prematurely because of air pollution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u348	What's the answer?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u349	Why is the railway wrong? Because the dogma I was talking about yesterday to the Minister of State, according to which the market would magically regulate the transport of goods, destroyed the rail transport of goods. The removal of the train between Perpignan and Rungis is a scandal, since an additional 25,000 trucks will take the roads each year. It would be enough to find 25 million euros, which is far from impossible. By saying that it is not necessary for the state to intervene powerfully in certain areas and to refuse to retain public companies capable of developing the transport of goods by rail, what our country could quite do,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u350	You're lying to the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u351	...we continue to put a dramatic number of trucks on the roads. No, I'm not lying, Mr. Lambert.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u352	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u353	Mr Lambert, I will not call you a terrible protector of road transport despite your vote. That's not my mind at all. In the same way, my vote on your proposal to reduce our country's nuclear capacity to 30 per cent in the long run will not make me look like a nuclear supporter to all of us. Would you say otherwise?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u354	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u355	We must reject any political approach,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u356	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u357	...as you do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u358	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u359	The amendment only goes back to the objective that the previous governments had set themselves. The draft mobility policy does not allow for a modal shift to the iron and the river. We have had a discussion on the plan to reduce inland waterways, which is allegedly not being developed. We allow ourselves to continue to ask these questions, because we want a return to a strong ambition in terms of modal reporting. Climate and land-use issues must be met by alternative road infrastructure. That, Mr Lambert, is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u360	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u361	Mr Wulfranc, thank you for your comments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u362	This is not a debate on the river!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u363	Thank you, Mr. Aubert. Bringing the share of alternative transport of goods to the road to 25% by 2030 would put the risk of half empty trucks. That's not how we're going to move forward! It is on this point that I want to draw your attention. I am voting against the amendment, and then I will go to you to explain the reasons for my opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u364	I put to the vote Amendment No 647.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u365	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 42 Number of votes cast 39 Absolute majority 20 For adoption 5 Against 34
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u366	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 185.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u367	It is an amendment of consistency that aims to ensure that France's climate emergency objectives for its domestic policy also prevail for its foreign policy. Yesterday, the High Climate Council called for consistency: the amendment follows this recommendation by providing that the State does not contribute to the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, and may prohibit the importation on its soil of fuels whose greenhouse gas emission intensity exceeds a threshold set by decree. The aim is to prevent the import into France of oil sands, shale gas, etc. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] Canadian exports of oil products from the oil sands, which represent a major environmental disaster, have increased by 63% to Europe since the provisional implementation of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA), not yet ratified by France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u368	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u369	We have already had this conversation in committee: hydrocarbon research activities serve other sectors, existing or in the process of structuring, which are at the heart of the energy transition. As drafted, the amendment could prevent deep underground research for the benefit of other sectors such as offshore wind. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u370	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u371	Article 10 of the Act of 30 December 2017 putting an end to the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons and laying down various provisions relating to energy and the environment provided that the Government should submit to Parliament a report, in the process of finalization, on the assistance of any kind from the State in support of the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. The report shows that these competitions have already ceased, in accordance with the climate commitments made by France, in particular in this law putting an end to the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Some activities, including high-performance gas turbines, can play an important role in the energy transition of some countries. This is not the case in France, but some countries are replacing coal or oil-fired power plants with gas-fired power plants. These are transition solutions to totally decarbonized energies, so there is no reason to exclude them from export guarantees. In addition, high-performance gas turbines are one of the activities of the Belfort General Electric plant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u372	That you dropped it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u373	The economic impact of these activities should not be overlooked. You may be sensitive to your concern about hydrocarbon exploration, but the terms used in your amendment should be clarified, as the language of the mining code is not necessarily that of export guarantees. I therefore propose that you rework your amendment, with a view to the consideration of this bill by the Senate. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u374	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u375	I support Delphine Batho's amendment: we tabled a similar amendment prohibiting the import of shale gas into France, but it was considered inadmissible. Coherence is fundamental: we have banned the production of shale gas in France because of its harmfulness to the environment, so that it cannot be imported. Canada has claimed to have significantly increased its shale gas exports to Europe. The National Assembly will review the ratification of CETA on 17 July. We are fighting against free trade treaties, particularly because of these types of imports that are harmful to the environment. We absolutely must ban the import of shale gas, otherwise we will have no consistency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u376	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u377	Minister of State, thank you for your intervention, but there is one "but". Parliament passed provisions in sections 8, 9 and 10 of the Act which put an end to the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, on these matters, such as the submission to Parliament of a report, which I did not read since it was not sent to us, even though it should have been on 31 December last. Above all, article 9 provided that the State would establish annually by decree the method of calculating the greenhouse gas emission intensity of imported hydrocarbons. If you tell me that this decree will soon be adopted, I am ready to withdraw my amendment. Will you require EDF to stop imports of shale gas into France? If the Government is willing to stop these imports, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u378	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 198.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u379	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u380	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 250.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u381	The aim is to put an end to investments in fossil fuels by portfolio management companies. Since the signing of the Paris Agreement, French banks' investments in these energies have increased by EUR 10 billion per year. This amendment proposes first that a principle of transparency be respected, i.e. that the information concerned be first made public, and then, from 1 January 2020, that these assets held in fossil fuels be gradually reduced to zero by 2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u382	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u383	The Government has told us in committee that the Ministry of Economy and Finance is leading a working group to collect the commitments of the banks in this area. This work seems to me necessary before establishing an obligation to reduce the assets held in companies engaged in hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation. I am therefore against your amendment, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u384	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u385	Same argument and same position.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u386	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u387	Now, frankly, that's not possible! Money is the nerve of war. Mr rapporteur, there have been working groups for a long time: there have been some before and after the conclusion of the Paris Agreement. If only we could see that the banking and financial sector has adopted a logic of good will and that things are moving forward! Farm Credit announcements in recent weeks are an exception, as investments in fossil fuels are increasing. These banks are criminal: today, continuing to invest in new coal-fired power plants or in new oil or gas operations is a crime against humanity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u388	You can't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u389	It is not possible that the draft law on energy and climate does not lay down any rules, obligations or requirements in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u390	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u391	Mrs Batho wishes to relaunch this debate, which I fully understand. I will repeat an argument which also applies to this amendment: you do not want to distinguish between oil, coal and gas, but we do, because we believe that the absolute priority at world level, and that France itself intends to respect, is to put an end to the production of electricity from coal. In some countries where electricity production depends almost exclusively on coal, this implies massive transformation. This would, in any case, be the scenario that would offer the most significant gains in greenhouse gas emissions. On the other hand, with regard to finance, France has taken initiatives through the voice of the President of the Republic. You are well aware that the One planet summit, which was launched at the initiative of France in partnership with public and private actors for the past two years, has led a number of banks and financial institutions to make commitments that have concrete consequences. For example, the French bank BNP Paribas has decided to divest itself of the financing of thermal power plants. Perhaps you do not know that, for this reason, it has been the subject of a boycott campaign in one of the Federated States of America. In any event, she did not fail in this commitment. And I could quote other examples, such as the BlackRock asset management company. Some banks and financial institutions are therefore making commitments, and we cannot say that nothing is happening and that nothing is being done. However, it does not seem appropriate to prohibit all investments in fossil fuels in law, by means of an amendment, in an undifferentiated manner, for all banks and financial institutions. What, moreover, would be the ones that would be subject to such a ban? Those who operate on French soil or those whose capital is French? You know very well that the economy does not work that way. However, we share the objective that you have set and defended, that is, that of reorienting finance not only towards the exit of investments in fossil fuels but also towards renewable energies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u392	Mr President, I should like to say that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is chairing the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u393	Either we stay in our little corner, here, and we are voting for provisions that concern only 0.5% of the world's greenhouse gas emissions, or we are trying to influence the finance that, you are right, Mrs Batho, is the nerve of war, and that must be directed towards greener investments. You choose the first option; We're doing the second one. We want instead to bring thousands of millions of dollars and euros on the path of reason, rather than forcing financial institutions of a few hundred billion, which would have a negative impact on their competitiveness. Indeed, whether you like it or not, the financial industry is also an industry that carries the French economy. Yesterday, global investors, representing $34,000 billion, put pressure on governments to do more: you should salute them, they are in your direction! I remain convinced that France's approach, which is to train the world with it, is much more favourable than the one you advocate, which is to stay in our village and do things that no one else does.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u394	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u395	I had no intention of intervening in the debate, but, Mrs Batho, if I understand your commitment, you have stated that continuing to invest in fossil energy production units is a crime against humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u396	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u397	No, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u398	Yes, it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u399	We can't say everything in this Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u400	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u401	It cannot be said that by investing in the fossil, a particular society commits a crime against humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u402	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u403	For your information, Mrs Batho, the crime against humanity is defined by the following acts: murder, extermination, enslavement, deportation, imprisonment, torture, rape, sexual slavery, forced prostitution, forced pregnancy, forced sterilization, apartheid, enforced disappearance of persons and other inhuman acts of a similar nature. We cannot put on the same plane, even if these are serious things that you consider to be an attack on the planet, the behaviors you mentioned and the intentional acts that have marked our history. Words have a meaning: by using some, which are very strong, wrongly and through, one ends up devaluing them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u404	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u405	[[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] This is not an attack on the planet, Mr. Aubert, but on humanity, which is in danger. The blindness of some still prevents them from seeing reality in the face, but humanity is indeed in danger! The destroyers who continue to aggravate the causes of this situation are criminals or eco-criminals. In fact, we will soon have to debate ecocides through a bill. The rapporteur, Mr Minister of State, the International Energy Agency, said that new fossil energy capacity should no longer be created, all fossil fuels combined. Gas is not a transition energy. We are talking today in absolute terms: we must not create new fossil energy capacity. Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, we do have a clear disagreement: you say that the volume of financing for clean technologies needs to be increased. For my part, I say that the first thing to do is very simple: we must stop investing public money...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u406	We have to stop with this: we don't invest in these energies anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u407	... or private money in fossil fuels, because 80% of known fossil energy reserves must be left in the soil: this is reflected in the Paris Agreement. Rules must therefore be laid down for the financial sector to stop financing fossil fuels all over the world, because this is not just France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u408	Amendment No 221 by Mr Jérôme Nury is not defended, but it is accepted by the committee. The rapporteur, Anthony Cellier, has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u409	This amendment tends to make the roadmap for energy renovation of buildings a part of the multiannual energy programming plan, not an annex to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u410	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u411	The Government issued a wisdom opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u412	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u413	I thank the majority for this discreet tribute to the group. The Republicans, since it has taken over one of its amendments, this is the best way to see them adopted. That's nice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u414	[[Smile]] And nice of you to take it up.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u415	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u416	We will vote in favour of Mr Nury's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u417	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u418	This amendment gives us the opportunity to affirm the importance of what we voted in the Committee on Sustainable Development. The Energy Renovation Roadmap – or the Energy Renovation Plan, as it is called today – was put in place by the Government at the beginning of the legislature: it is a very useful tool for monitoring progress on energy renewal step by step. This complements the reports which are requested once a year on the progress of these dossiers and makes it possible to monitor concretely the progress made in this area within the framework of the multiannual energy programme. It therefore perpetuates a very useful tool.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u419	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support Amendment No. 625.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u420	We all know that photovoltaic projects are continuing to grow and that the development of this energy must be encouraged. However, today, in the framework of the Energy Regulatory Commission's calls for tenders, a building which requires a roof repair, for example in case of asbestos removal or structural reinforcement, cannot be equipped with a photovoltaic roof, the CRE arguing that these projects cannot be competitive with new or new buildings. It therefore seems to us necessary that the road map provided for in clause 11 of section 1 of the bill take this issue into account, as the development potential of this mechanism seems to us to be very important.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u421	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u422	He's unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u423	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u424	He's asking for the withdrawal. Otherwise, his opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u425	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u426	This is beginning to become a little complicated with regard to Corsica. Today, electricity produced in Corsica is produced with heavy fuel oil, and electricity imported from Italy is produced with coal. However, the amendment proposes to install photovoltaics wherever possible, and you are not in favour of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u427	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u428	I did not speak earlier about Mr Acquaviva's reasoning, because I had not been able to hear the arguments of the minister and the rapporteur. In this case, however, your position is difficult to understand. The amendment seems to be moving in the right direction. You keep saying that we need to invest in renewable energy, and I keep saying that we need to pay attention to the costs and the concrete nature of the trajectory. In this case, the possibility is open to you to reduce the use of fossil and carbon fuels in Corsica, and you do not want it! I'm having a hard time following you. For all these reasons, I will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u429	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u430	Mr. Aubert may be surprised because he knows that, as a rule, I support photovoltaics, but in this case I do not think that the proposed provision has its place in the energy renovation plan for buildings. Indeed, the objective of this plan is to reduce energy consumption in the building. But if, as in other places, we mix topics and try to mix energy transition and energy efficiency, we are going to be wrong. First of all, we need to reduce the energy consumption of buildings, that is to say, to ensure that these buildings consume less, which is the priority of this roadmap for the energy renovation of buildings, and secondly, but elsewhere, to develop photovoltaics and to ensure that our energy mix also includes, for example, solar thermal and geothermal energy, which would have their place in them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u431	Interesting discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u432	At that time, why photovoltaics? Why not these other energy production modes that are just as interesting? In short, there is a need for a tool for each thing: the energy renovation plan aims at the energy efficiency of buildings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u433	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u434	I will not go back to what I have already said about Corsica, Mr Pupponi. We have already had the debate, the work is continuing and, in any case, this amendment does not specifically address Corsica. Mr Aubert, it would be good if we all showed a little good faith. Our goal, as you know, is to develop solar photovoltaic equipment in our country – and that's what we do: there's never been so many, there's never been so much solar photovoltaic production. In fact, I can say, without any risk of being denied, that we are going to break record in this area, month after month. Indeed, the installed capacity increases; However, contrary to what some of your friends or people who are hostile to renewable energy say, when installed capacity increases, production also increases. Of course, photovoltaic panels do not produce electricity at night – no one has ever said otherwise – but if you look at the RTE Ecomix application, you will see that at 14 o'clock, there is a daily peak in the production of solar photovoltaic electricity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u435	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u436	The purpose of this amendment is to install photovoltaic solar panels each time an energy renovation is carried out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u437	No: we don't say we have to do it every time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u438	We do not think that it is necessary to include this in the law. First, many people, when preparing for a major energy renovation, are already wondering if they will have photovoltaic solar panels installed. Secondly, there is no question of making this compulsory, because for the time being, Mr.Aubert, solar panels placed on a roof, this is not necessarily the least expensive thing, especially when it comes to existing roofs. It is better to integrate them into new constructions, especially in the large roofs of industrial, commercial or logistical buildings. Legislation was adopted to this effect in 2016. However, last week, in committee, some Members wanted to go back on it, on the grounds that it created an additional cost for those who had such buildings built. At some point, you have to be serious and be consistent! If we were to make the impression outside this House that we do not want to develop solar photovoltaic energy, it would be a lie. We have had a good debate so far, exchanging arguments that could shed light on our differences, but still remain in good faith. I would like us to continue that way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u439	[[Mr Julien Aubert leaves the Chamber]] I'm done, I'm gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u440	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u441	This amendment has a general scope, Mr Minister of State, although the application of such a provision must be of particular importance to Corsica. I hear your arguments with regard to energy demand control, but this amendment does not tend to make the installation of photovoltaic panels mandatory when renovating or decomposing a building; He's just making it possible, when it's forbidden today. This is even more important if we are at the territorial level. In a Mediterranean area marked by a strong indivision like ours, where the stakes in the renovation of the housing stock are particularly important, because of the very dilapidated structures, which require an asbestos removal, we would make a winner: we would renovate for energy mix purposes without preventing the control of energy demand. We are actually part of a decentralised territorial energy mix strategy. This amendment would make it possible to implement such a strategy, whereas today it is not possible. As for the Corsican question, I would like to say to the Minister that the arguments concerning interconnection with Italy and national solidarity fall for two reasons. First, the multi-annual energy programming – EPP – of 2013 provides for energy autonomy by 2050. The unfavourable opinion given to the amendment therefore marks a step backwards from the PPE. Secondly, we are not here to constantly focus on sebilism, to ask for assistance or to call for national solidarity; We are here to achieve, through the energy mix and the optimisation of our potential in microhydraulics, biomass and others, an environmental as well as social effect. Indeed, thanks to energy autonomy, we will reduce the cost of energy. Answer us today: "We are not ready", while this is planned for 2050, that is to say thirty years from now, does not seem to us to be a very mature political speech, especially in view of the Prime Minister's visit to Corsica on 4 and 5 July.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u442	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-27-O1292.u443	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the draft law on energy and climate. The meeting is adjourned.
