ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u1	The next item is the debate on the Court of Auditors' report on the state budget. On behalf of all of you, I welcome the First President of the Court of Auditors. Collaboration between the National Assembly and the Court of Auditors is an essential element of monitoring the proper use of public resources. It allows the Finance and Social Affairs Committees, the Public Policy Evaluation and Monitoring Committee and, more broadly, all members of our Assembly to benefit from the expertise they need to exercise their prerogatives. In particular, I would like to thank you for your valuable contribution to the new edition of the "Evaluation Spring". By choosing to devote a full week of public debate to the review of the implementation of the State budget, the National Assembly intends to fully exercise its constitutional mandate to assess public action. After a successful first fiscal year last year, our Assembly wanted not only to renew, but to perpetuate, in its Rules of Procedure, this new highlight of the budgetary timetable. I welcome this and hope that we can continue to develop this practice for the sake of the proper functioning of our democratic life and of optimal information for our citizens. Mr Didier Migaud, First President of the Court of Auditors, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u2	I am very honoured to present to you in this Chamber, and for the second year in a row, the conclusions of the report on the implementation of the State budget. With your invitation, you demonstrate your interest in the work of the financial courts and demonstrate your willingness to make greater use of their observations and recommendations, thus giving full expression to article 47-2 of our Constitution. Last year, I had the opportunity to welcome your initiative to devote more time to reviewing the results of public action as part of the Spring of Evaluation. I am happy to do this again this year. The Court has often had the opportunity to regret the sharp gap between the time devoted to the debate on the provisions of the original finance law and the overall disinterest caused by its implementation and the analysis of the results obtained. This lack of interest is in complete contrast to the concern about the efficiency and effectiveness of public action expressed by the French in recent months, particularly during the great national debate. Our country remains locked in a purely quantitative approach to the budget, which focuses on the volume of appropriations programmed and their rate of progress. It is important to change this software of thought, to stop worrying only about the figures in order to give, on the contrary, its full place to the evaluation of the results of the public action, that is, basically, to the purpose pursued, the appropriations being only a means, of course important, to achieve this. By trying to rebalance the budgetary procedure in this way, you are giving life to the democratic imperative of accountability, of ensuring a demanding control over the use that is made of public money. In this difficult task, be assured that the financial courts are at your disposal. It is precisely in order to be more useful to you that the Court has in recent months made a number of adjustments to the conditions governing the investigation and publication of several of its proceedings. We agreed last year at the same time. So let me begin by saying a few words about the changes that have been made. First, we are experimenting with you and the Department of Public Action and Accounts with a new schedule for reviewing the proposed Regulations. As you know, his deposit occurred about two weeks earlier than the period until 2017. The Minister of Action and Public Accounts announced that by 2021 he would like to see this timetable continued and even speeded up so that the bill would be tabled in mid-April in order to give Parliament more time for its discussion. This year, again, the Court put forward by a week the date of publication of its report on the implementation of the State budget, as well as that of the act of certification of the State accounts which I presented to the Finance Committee of your Assembly on 22 May. While this tightening of the timetable responds to a virtuous concern that we have been encouraging for a long time, it is necessary, however, that it be implemented in a concerted and coordinated manner so that it does not affect the conditions for the completion of the Court's work. In order to conduct our instructions and be as useful as possible, we need to have all the up-to-date statistical, budgetary and accounting data produced by the economic and financial ministries. Already this year, there have been some difficulties in advancing the timetable for the tabling of the bill, particularly for the work of the High Council for Public Finance. His opinion on the bill had to be published a few days before INSEE published the first results of the 2018 annual accounts, necessary for the calculation of the structural balance of public administrations. These results have led the Government to revise the structural balance for the year 2018 mentioned in the settlement bill. The High Council amended accordingly, on 6 June, its opinion, without, however, affecting the substance of its original conclusions. In order to meet your expectations, we have also adjusted the content of our work, in particular that of the budget implementation notes, which are annexed to the report on the implementation of the State budget. First, you wanted more program-based analysis, historical depth, and problematization. We have worked in this direction and, in addition, for eight notes, we have added more in-depth thematic developments on your topics of interest. We hope that the changes made meet your expectations and we will be very attentive to your appreciation of them. We will be all the more so since these notes, which represent nearly 3000 pages of analysis, constitute a considerable wealth of information on the execution of the various budgetary missions of the State, directly mobilised in many of your work. In addition to these changes to the format of the budget implementation notes, we have jointly adjusted the timetable for determining the list of evaluation work that we are carrying out, Mr President and the rapporteur-general, at your request, in accordance with Article 58-2 of the Organic Law on Finance Laws – LOLF. This year, as last year, the list of so-called "58-2" reports will be finalized in the summer, following the "Spring of Evaluation"; the reports you have ordered from us will be submitted to you the following year for the new edition of the "Evaluation Spring". Finally, in addition to our report on the state and outlook for public finances, next week we will publish two booklets dedicated to the implementation of 2018 local and social accounts. We used to do it in the fall. This will allow you to have before the summer, before the budgetary policy debate, the detailed assessment by the financial courts of the results of the budgetary implementation of each of the main categories of public administration in the previous year. This is all the more relevant and meaningful as the state's situation is very specific compared to that of other public administrations, as the 2018 management illustrates well. I conclude with these elements of methodology and timetable to come to the main conclusions of the State Budget Implementation Report in 2018. First, this report details the conditions for the implementation of the State budget in 2018; As such, we note that they were more controlled than in 2017. It then goes on to examine the peculiar situation of the state budget in relation to all public administrations. Thus, after three years of quasi-stability, the government deficit has grown, while the general government balance has changed in the opposite direction. In view of the observations we made last year on the particular impact of the implementation of the State budget, there have been undeniable improvements in the management of 2018. This is the first teaching in this report. As such, we rely on a number of observations, such as the circumscribed nature of the reserve, the standardization of infra-annual management or the limitation of carry-overs. We also note that expenditure standards, as set out in the Programming Act, have been maintained and that no advance orders have been required, while previous managements have regularly experienced several of them. Naturally, we can only hope that this improvement in the quality of the implementation of the State budget will continue. We even recommend that it be expanded because, despite the satisfaction I have just given, some questionable management practices persist. The report thus points to the maintenance of sub-budgeting, particularly in the field of external operations. It also notes the inappropriate use of the appropriation for accidental or unpredictable expenditure, which mainly covered a EUR 100 million underbudgeting linked to the European Stability Mechanism. Apart from these qualitative assessments, our report makes a number of quantitative observations on management 2018. With regard to State expenditure, the Court notes that the new standards set out in the Public Finance Programming Act for the years 2018 to 2022 have been respected. The Commission also notes that expenditure on the general budget of the State, amounting to EUR 352.2 billion, has increased by 0.3% compared to 2017; This is a much more limited rate of progress than last year, where it was 3.2% on an equivalent perimeter. This slowdown, however, is less marked for the wage bill than for other expenditure. The Court found that much of the increase in government spending in 2018 was due to the increase in staff costs. As a result of some job creation and various wage measures taken in recent years, these expenditures have increased by 2% between 2017 and 2018, despite an overall stabilization of the workforce. Today, staff costs account for almost 39% of the general budget's expenditures. The government's revenue, which reached EUR 248.3 billion, was significantly higher – EUR 8.7 billion – than the forecast set out in the original finance law. Although up from the forecast, however, tax revenues are down slightly from 2017, mainly due to significant tax cuts in 2018 or previous years. As you know, the reductions in levies have indeed been significant in recent years. For 2018 alone, tax relief measures had a negative impact of EUR 13.5 billion on tax revenues. Therefore, even if they are higher than the original forecast, the State's total net revenue is down by EUR 1 billion compared to 2017. This decrease would have been €3.8 billion if transfer rights revenue, collected in 2017, had not been wrongly charged against the 2018 financial year. Thanks to higher than anticipated revenues, the government deficit was relatively contained in relation to the forecast set out in the original Finance Act. It amounts to EUR 76 billion, or 9.6 billion less than the level set in the finance law. This must not, however, obscure the trend path and the extent of the state deficit. This is the second lesson in this report. At this level – EUR 76 billion – the state deficit accounts for 23.4% of the net expenditure of the state budget, i.e. EUR 4 billion more than the expenditure of the school education mission and EUR 3 billion more than the income tax revenue. Above all, and for the first time since 2014, the government deficit is on the rise compared to the previous year, to the tune of EUR 8.3 billion, under the double effect of tax cuts and, to a lesser extent, of the increase in government spending that I recalled a few moments ago. The trajectory of the state thus diverges from that of all public administrations. Indeed, its deficit in national accounts reached nearly 3% of GDP in 2018; As a result, it is well above the general government deficit, which fell by 0.3% in 2018, to 2.5% of GDP. As a result, while government debt stabilized at 98.4 points of GDP, government debt increased to 78.3 points of GDP, 1.2 points higher than last year. The act of certifying the State's accounts, which we have published at the same time as the report on the implementation of its budget, shows that the resulting financial situation is particularly deteriorating. I stress this point: we see – regretting it – that, in the face of these ratios, we experience, year after year, a form of resignation, even though the situation is far from inevitable. The best proof of this is, no doubt, the singularity of our country's accounts compared to those of most of our neighbours, who have begun a path of deleveraging. On the contrary, the financial statements of the French State, which are reported in the certificate, highlight its net position, which is strongly negative, amounting to EUR 1296 billion as at 31 December 2018. This amount represents a liability equivalent to nearly four years of tax revenues. It was only – if I may say so – two years in 2006, when the Court first certified the state's accounts. Without even taking into account its off-balance-sheet liabilities – which still amount to almost 4000 billion euros – it therefore appears that the billions of assets of the state – in other words, what it owns – are twice as much as it owes. Above all, after three years of quasi-stability, the government deficit increased in 2018, even though the general government balance was in reverse. The main explanation for this divergence lies in the revenue policy, including tax revenue. Indeed, the State defines it for its own taxes, but also for the resources of social security and local and regional authorities, and compensates from its budget for the reductions in levies made. Even though the latter cover all public administrations, it is therefore the State budget which bears the bulk of the net cost. However, the State cannot balance its revenue cuts for itself and for other public administrations by acting on its own expenditure alone. Moreover, these represent only one third of the total public expenditure. That is why, as recommended in our report, it is appropriate to ensure that reductions in compulsory levies are proportionate to efforts to reduce expenditure spread across the whole field of public administration, and not to be requested by the State alone. Apart from the assessments made on the management of public finances in 2018, the report on the implementation of the State budget makes several more general assessments on the increasing complexity of the budget, and on the performance approach promoted by the LOLF, echoing the work carried out by your Finance Committee in the run-up to the twentieth anniversary of the LOLF. The assessments made in our report raise key questions as to the scope of the budgetary authority that you give during the vote on the finance law and, more generally, the measurement of the performance of public action. These questions of technical appearance largely echo the concerns expressed by our fellow citizens during the great national debate in favour of greater control and transparency of the use of public resources. I would therefore like to devote the second part of my remarks to them. The first reflection opened in the report concerns the increasing complexity and elisibility of the State's budgetary framework. This is an evil that you are, in a certain way, both victims – in the conduct of your activities – and responsible – when you allow devices that perpetuate or reinforce them. Thus, as finance laws progress, government spending is like an increasingly heterogeneous, unstable and ultimately illegible aggregate. It is difficult, if not impossible, to delimit the contours of public resources devoted to a particular public policy, as well as their evolution over time. However, this is the costing exercise attempted by the budget implementation notes annexed to the report. As such, we show that a significant part of the State's financial effort, for many missions, is going through ways other than the general budget's expenditure – generally tax expenditure, the connection of competition funds or the allocation of taxes to operators – making its overall understanding very complex. Some of these sprains with major budgetary principles seem to me to be particularly critical. This is the case with funds without legal personality, to which we have devoted several substantial developments. This is again the case this year, against one of their new specimens, the Industrial Innovation Fund, created in 2018. It is not up to us to give an opportune opinion on the public policy objective pursued by this entity. We only appreciate, from the point of view of the management rules, the relevance of the budgetary vector used to finance it. In the present case, the problem with regard to the use of a fund without legal personality is that this means that appropriations which could be perfectly authorised and managed, each year, within a normal budgetary framework, are evaded from your authorisation. They could easily be integrated into the general budget, in the form of an allocation to the budget programme dedicated to innovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u3	We said it and repeated it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u4	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u5	The circumvention of the fundamental principle of budgetary universality is sometimes justified by the desire to sanctify appropriations. This argument is not admissible since the executive branch has budgetary frameworks under ordinary law to achieve the same result and, with regard to the guarantee of the financing of the political priorities it has determined, the decision is entirely its own. To put it simply, this grey budget area, which is tending to develop, could – should – be abolished, by making a clear choice between the inclusion of the sums concerned in the State budget or a genuine delegation to operators. Whatever the means used and the political justifications put forward, budgetary authorisation and respect for Parliament's prerogatives are difficult to cope with the increasing fragmentation of the state budget. It seems to me that there is a question of the proper functioning of democracy. In addition, our report devotes substantial developments to tax expenditure. This is a field that we have already explored on many occasions, given the volume they have reached and their progress. For example, they represent almost 100 billion euros for 2018. By isolating the impact of the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – we find that tax expenditures have increased by 1.8% per year since 2013. Overall, we find that devices tend to multiply year after year, without ever re-examining those in force. Tax expenditure also raises, I believe, deep questions about our budgetary democracy. In fact, even though they represent one third of the expenditure of the general budget of the State, they escape the political process of arbitrating the expenditure on budgetary appropriations and administrative and accounting processes for monitoring expenditure, as well as the procedures for evaluating public performance. The second more substantial reflection opened by the report is based on an analysis of the performance approach, promoted by the LOLF. This analysis confirms a unanimous perception: the culture of performance, efficiency, efficiency, is a transplant that has not yet been completely taken. There are many symptoms of this: overabundant, poorly used and sometimes uncertain budget documentation; performance indicators of uneven quality, which have not become real steering instruments; low-valued public policies; an allocation of the resources deconcerned with the results; Modernisation or reform of public action exercises designed unrelated to the performance approach initiated by the LOLF; and I will, unfortunately, be able to multiply the examples. These symptoms are indicative of administrative practices that are not conducive to taking managers' performance into account. It is one of the great reasons for disappointment for the LOLF fathers – of whom I am – to see the low level of accountability of public managers. Admittedly, accountability is not decreed. The LOLF alone could not go against a culture of mistrust, which is too often reflected in the relationship between the budget administration and public managers, especially since it was reinforced by the budgetary difficulties caused by the 2008 crisis. However, public officials are more than ready, we believe, to contribute to enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of public management. But they can only do so if they are given real room for manoeuvre, as well as visibility, on their resources, and contractualise with them on the reforms to be accomplished – in short, provided they are more trusted. Certainly, this is not the case today, despite the ambitions – which I have had the opportunity to welcome – recently formulated by the Government in this regard. The disappointing assessment of the performance approach promoted by the LOLF should not lead to discouragement, on the contrary. We must not forget how much this text has made it possible to move the lines, and to go beyond the only logic of means that existed. It should also be borne in mind how the particularly tense budgetary context which prevailed from 2008 onwards weighed on the horizon of managers and partly annihilated the positive effects of the performance scheme promoted by LOLF. On the basis of an important international comparison work, our report proposes several ways to recast the system. I'll sum up a few of them. First of all, it recommends that we stop confusing management objectives with policy objectives, as is all too often the case today. A manager can only be held responsible for what he has real room for manoeuvre. Secondly, much more needs to be done on the basis of the results of public policy evaluations to decide on the proper allocation of State resources. That is precisely what is at stake in your approach to the "Evaluation Spring," ladies and gentlemen. More than two thirds of the budget programme managers we interviewed, in the preparation of the report, consider that budgeting is deconcerned with performance. This is very worrying and, I believe, incomprehensible to our fellow citizens. By observing what our neighbours are doing, we have sources of inspiration to reshape the performance system promoted by the LOLF. These could, for example, lead us to carry out regular expenditure reviews and public policy evaluations, in accordance with a programme that could be adopted under the Public Finance Programming Act and adopted in Parliament. These are as many issues as the Court will have the opportunity to deal with again in the context of its review work on LOLF, the twentieth anniversary of which is approaching. Initiatives will certainly be taken on your side by then. In addition to the performance problems that I have just addressed, the scope of the reflections that you can undertake will benefit from being even broader, to embrace the overall coherence of public finance governance and, within it, Parliament's place in the budgetary debate. In this regard, two subjects seem to me to deserve your particular attention. The first is the treatment of budgetary pluriannuality. You see this better than we do: the multi-year management of our public finances is not satisfactory. Thus, the law on public finance programming that you passed less than a year and a half ago, covering the period 2018-2022, is already completely outdated. More generally, in addition to the trajectory of the public balance and debt, many of the structural provisions contained in the programming laws are quickly lost sight of. The stability programmes, on the contrary, have become much more binding anchors for our public finances than before, which obviously raises the question of the conditions for their examination by national representation, which, as things stand at present, seem unsatisfactory. Moreover, the audit of public finances carried out by the Court in 2017 proposed to include in the organic law on the programming and governance of public finances the principle of a systematic debate, followed by a vote. In general, it seems to me regrettable that Parliament is so little involved in defining our country's budgetary strategy. However, I note that progress has recently been made in this area, including changes to the schedule for the review of the Settlement Act, which I welcomed earlier. On a smaller scale, we can also regret the near-disappearance in recent times of multi-annual contracts between the State, on the one hand, and its major administrations and operators, on the other hand, down from what is going on and is functioning satisfactorily between the State and the national social security funds. This is a model that it would be desirable to draw on. This comparison raises the question of our ability to have a comprehensive and integrated view of our public finances. This is the second point of thought that I wish to open before you. Even if it does not reach a consensus, it seems to me useful to put this topic on the table, since it is still so difficult to have a consolidated view of the financial situation of public administrations – state, social security and local authorities – which could be subject to national representation. The issue of the creation of a financial document merging the financial and social security financing laws had been raised at the time of the creation of the LOLF. The Court had expressed reservations on this point, but the growing fiscalization of social security resources, which is expected to strengthen, justifies the topic being brought to light again. We can at least move towards a better articulation of the parliamentary debate on these two texts, both at the stage of budgetary programming and implementation. For example, a joint general discussion could be considered, followed by a review of the respective expenditure and revenue components. And, downstream, why not imagine a law of settlement common to the state and social security – or, to be even more ambitious, a "law of results"? Of course, I leave these questions open to your reflection; As I said, the Court will probably have the opportunity to address them in its work by 2021 and is available, of course, to contribute to your work. While the implementation of the 2018 budget was better than that of the previous one, the financial situation of the State remains tense and worrying. In this context, our citizens are increasingly paying attention to the monitoring of the use made of the efforts they have made. This requirement makes it all the more crucial and relevant to your ambition to create this meeting to monitor the results of public action, the "Spring of Evaluation". But beyond a dedicated moment in the year, this ambition must be permanent and irrigate all the work and activities of your commissions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, IDU-I and LT groups]] Be assured that the Court will be at your disposal and at your disposal to play its role of assisting the public authorities more and more effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u6	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u7	First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr. First President, for your presence in this second spring edition of the evaluation, which the President of the National Assembly mentioned just before your speech. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the special rapporteurs and rapporteurs for their opinions for the quality of their reports, which I believe – although I do not have to judge – have improved on last year. We are therefore in the process of improving, in accordance with what we all want. I will leave aside the 2018 credits, which we will be talking about on Wednesday, to focus on the conditions under which the "Spring of Evaluation" took place and its objective. In this respect, the National Assembly – I am speaking under the control of its President – has an ambition – I repeat to you, Mr.First President: better to assess the cost-effectiveness of public policies, that is to say, better to measure the cost-effectiveness of public policies. It is true that one belongs to the opposition or to the majority. Of course, our institution is not politically neutral: each of us obviously has personal commitments. But at some point we can try to objectify as much as possible the quality of a public policy in terms of its cost and its initial objectives, without falling into contemplation for the majority or caricature for the opposition. We must be able to achieve this with regard to different policies; we are trying to do so; I hope we succeed. In any case, that is our ambition: a National Assembly at the heart of the evaluation of public policies. [[Smile]] The "Evaluation Spring" functioned quite well with respect to public policy evaluation commissions. To keep to the quantitative aspect, we met 36 hours and 35 minutes, compared to 34 hours and 30 minutes last year. Of course, it is not a guarantee of quality. However, this difference is due to the fact that the debates were not more boring, more laborious, longer to drive, but simply more nourished. Ministers were also more "challenged" and their comments were more discussed. This is obviously a good thing: it must be a formidable exercise for any minister; If a minister doesn't fear Parliament, then our oversight mission doesn't make sense. Finally, more Members have participated in our work, whether they are our finance commissioners themselves or members of the committees referred to us for their opinions. As far as the substance is concerned, it seems to me that the exercise is also better understood than last year, even if progress remains to be made. I have enjoyed attending a number of very substantial discussions, in which the substantive issues were really discussed, and I have no doubt that those of my colleagues who had the opportunity to relay me to the chair of the committee have had the same experience. Assessing the cost-effectiveness – or efficiency – of a public policy is an absolutely essential exercise. I have noted with satisfaction that the elements of qualitative assessment, beyond quantity, are emerging. Is a policy given the quality it must have with regard to the categories of persons to which it refers? That's a real subject of analysis. As you said, Mr First President, the Court of Auditors has also adapted itself, adjusting its timetable to ours – I am thinking, for example, of "Article 58-2°", to speak of the Lolfian, that is to say, the investigation reports drawn up by the Court of Auditors at the request of Parliament in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 58 of the Organic Law on Finance Laws: the timetable for their surrender has been put forward so that we can take them into account. A wealth of information, if not overabundant, feeds our debates. The question is not its quality – always at the rendezvous, or almost – nor, of course, its quantity, but the way we use it. The use of the information provided to us by the Court of Auditors is indeed fundamental: what the Court says must have consequences, when, of course, national representation agrees with it. But it is also respect for the Assembly itself that is at stake. The Chairman of the Committee indicated earlier that there were many other evaluation bodies: the evaluation and monitoring committee for public policies, the internal evaluation and control missions to the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Social Affairs, and the general information missions which included evaluation elements. All their work of the year must be able to converge towards the Public Policy Review Week, and the "Spring of Evaluation" must be seen as the place for this convergence, designed to advance our public policies. One could thus consider that the year is divided into two: a first pre-budget half-year marked by three highlights – the settlement law, the public policy evaluation committees and the public examination of motions for resolutions, and finally the debate on the orientation of public finances – which brings us towards the second half of the year, the semester itself, in the light of what has been expressed before. Thus, the budget would be prepared throughout the year, through continuous work – evaluation, evaluation implications, budget itself. We are the National Assembly: we must also vote – not only the budgets, but also the evaluation policies and their consequences. How? By motions for resolutions. In this regard, the Government has shown good will. We will therefore consider motions for resolutions from either the political groups or the Finance Committee, which has selected five of them, mostly based on the work of the special rapporteurs. I saw that the majority had chosen cross-cutting topics, such as tax expenditures – this is a very good idea – while much of the opposition favoured "vertical" subjects, interested in a particular public policy in itself. Of course, all this is very welcome. We have therefore made a great deal of progress; We must continue. In particular, we need to better assess the impact of our own amendments or better discuss the Government's assessment of its proposals. To achieve this, we are currently discussing the implementation of Leximpact, a software that parliamentarians would have access to for this purpose. Why not? This may not go as far as the ambition we had last year, but it is a significant step forward that deserves to be noted. I also want to reassure the First President: we have re-created the MILOLF, the fact-finding mission on the implementation of the Organic Law on Finance Laws, designed to monitor the implementation of the LOLF and, if necessary, to correct it, which we will do very seriously. I would like to focus for a moment on the work of the public policy evaluation committees. When Mrs Pires Beaune looks at repayments and rebates, these are really exciting topics that we are addressing, and very fundamental conclusions. When Mr Aubert asks the question of the cost of wind turbines over their lifetime, the project and the data appear quite incredible: 70 to 80 billion euros! It is not a question of denouncing renewable energies, but of asking at what cost they are produced, compared to other types of energy; Secondly, it is a matter of political choice. [[Smile]] The same applies to tax expenditure: we should be better able to practice parangling, or benchmarking, to give a translation that the Court of Auditors understands well, by comparing our tax system with other very different ones: are there holes in the racket? It is a matter of extracting itself from the tax system in order to favour a particular type of policy. Finally, when Ms. Motin and Ms. Petit raise the issue of absenteeism in the public service, we are at the heart of human resources issues that are not addressed due to a lack of human resources management at the state level. There can be no budgetary no-man's land, and we are not told that the necessary documents do not exist: if they do not exist, it is that management is not optimized – I am thinking again of the case of absenteeism in the public service. We may have to do what we usually refuse when we are in government and defend when we are in opposition: the merger between the social security financing bill – at least its first part, dedicated to revenue – and the finance bill. After all, the taxpayer is the same, the figures are often on the same payroll – they are increasingly on it, by the way. In short, there should be no separation. The exercise we are carrying out must be understood as a real review of public spending. We're only at the beginning. We will publish an annual report that will summarize what has been said these weeks – a report from the National Assembly on the evaluation of public policies, to mark the stage before trying to improve things. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-I and MODEM groups and on several benches of the LaREM group]] For my part, I consider that the Government has put the imperative of balancing our public finances in the second place. The opposition I represent deeply regrets this. But we must of course continue to comply with the imperative of evaluating public policies and develop the approach in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u8	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u9	The "Evaluation Spring" is becoming a highlight of our budget schedule. For years or even decades, observers and parliamentarians themselves have regretted that the settlement bill is under consideration, neglecting too much the results of the promises contained in the original finance bill. In this regard, this Parliament marks a change. The Finance Committee had adopted a programme of work on evaluation and each of the special rapporteurs had chosen one or two themes. Last year, the Finance Committee also set up committees to evaluate public policies. In this new framework, for the second consecutive year, ministers must be accountable for the execution and results of the past fiscal year, mission by mission, public policy by public policy. They should be explained, in particular, by the difficulties identified by each Special Rapporteur on the topics he had chosen. This shows that it is not always necessary to amend the texts in order to improve parliamentary work. Consistently, by taking full advantage of the important prerogatives given to us by existing legislation, we have succeeded in enriching the review of the proposed Regulations. I would therefore like to express, as the chairman of our committee has just done, my thanks to all those involved in this second Spring of evaluation, in particular to the Court of Auditors, which is playing its full role of assisting Parliament. Mr. First President, you have agreed to move your timetable forward, which has allowed me and the Special Rapporteurs more time to study the budget implementation analysis notes. I also know that most of the special rapporteurs have heard the judges responsible for these notes. [[Smile]] I would also like to thank them for the quality of their work, which I have been able to measure by actively participating in sixteen of the eighteen public policy evaluation committees, a participation rate of 89 per cent, which in my view is an excellent result. Everyone can give himself a performance indicator. Although we have already made much progress in reviewing the proposed Regulations, it would be possible in the future to go further, moving on to the examination of a real law of results, from all levels of government to all levels of government. Because we cannot now judge our public finances by simply examining the state budget. The 2018 fiscal year is the perfect example, as it shows an increase in the government deficit, while the government deficit is decreasing. Your report, which deals with the state budget alone, therefore points – and that is normal – to the increase in its deficit from €67.7 billion to €76 billion. However, and this is the paradox of this settlement law, the state of public finances improved in 2018, with all public administrations combined: the government deficit decreased by 0.3 percentage points of GDP and, at the same time, the public debt stabilized. The paradox, which is only apparent, is simply explained. Since I was rapporteur-general, I have stressed in all my reports that the state bears the bulk of the public deficit. This is even clearer this year, as the government deficit is now higher than the government deficit. This is due to the fact that the State alone bears the bulk of the reductions in compulsory levies. The State's compensation to local authorities and social security accounts for almost two thirds of its deficit. In 2018, the State paid EUR 15.7 billion for local tax relief and almost EUR 32 billion for general social contributions relief. In your report, Mr. First President, you suggest reviewing the distribution of compulsory levies between the State and other categories of public administration, in particular social security. I fully share this view. Otherwise, a real law of results would make it clearer. The issue of the readability of public finances is crucial. Work must be done on both revenue and expenditure. For example, the amount of net tax revenue, as set out in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, is EUR 295.4 billion. However, the real amount of government revenue was €321.1 billion in 2018, as this figure does not appear anywhere in the budget documentation. There are two reasons for this difference. First, the usual budget presentation deducts from the gross amount of the State's tax revenues the rebates and refunds of local taxes. As every year, the Court of Auditors criticized this presentation and recommended that local tax refunds and rebates should no longer be deducted from the State's gross tax revenues. I agree with that analysis. Secondly, the budgetary presentation put forward by the Government does not take into account the tax revenues allocated in whole or in part to various supplementary budgets and special accounts of the State. This fraction of taxation is therefore often omitted from the political and economic analysis of the state accounts. There is also a need to improve the readability of government spending. This is one of the recommendations of the Court, which I agree with. It is currently difficult to have an aggregate view of government spending: revenue levies and local tax refunds and rebates are recorded as lower income, whereas they are equivalent to expenditure. Nor is it easy to trace the expenditure of State operators financed by affected taxes. The direct allocation of taxes to operators is in fact tantamount to sanctuarising operators' expenditure at the level of the amount allocated. The budgetary principles of unity and universality must remain the rule; the allocation of revenue, an exception. I fight every year against this capture of the tax resource. Is there more reason to sanctify an operator's expenditure than that of a general budget mission? It does not always seem to me to be justified. In the Committee on Finance, our colleague, Charles de Courson, suggested that the Court should be able to work towards consolidating the accounts of the central public administrations by integrating the expenditure of the state budget and debuggered expenditure into the same document. This idea seems particularly interesting to me. Budgetary fragmentation of expenditure is one of the weaknesses of our accounting system. Making fiscal choices on public policies requires first of all an aggregate vision of all these public policies. It could therefore be useful to consolidate the expenditure of the State and its operators, as the majority of OECD countries are currently doing. The redefinition of the expenditure standards proposed by the Government and included in the Public Finance Programming Act has resulted in a more comprehensive analysis of the evolution of State expenditure. The creation of the State's standard of pilotable expenditure and of the State's total expenditure target is a direct result of the Court of Auditors' recommendations. They limit circumvention, which has been observed in the past. In 2018, as you point out, these two standards were met, proof of the good control of the state's spending. We can only rejoice. However, the control of public expenditure in general and of State expenditure in particular cannot be achieved at the expense of the quality of public policies. The spirit of LOLF, to which the Prime President is not entirely foreign, was to improve the efficiency of public spending, to do better with less. In this context, the purpose of the performance framework was to analyse the evolution of the impact of budgetary expenditure. It is less the change in the level of expenditure that counts than the change in the results of public policies. In your report, you see that the performance system has failed. You also formulate several interesting recommendations to improve it. It goes without saying that the Court's work on this subject will feed into the work of MILOLF. I also share the Court's analysis of the half-tone balance sheet of performance indicators. However, I would like to point out that most of the countries that have set up a comparable system have the same questions as we do. The OECD reported that the performance information provided by the Government was of very good quality. It also stressed that the fact that such data were submitted to the Court of Auditors, an independent body, was an asset, which distinguished France from most other countries. However, the performance device cannot be asked more than what it can offer. It is not enough to have a more accurate measurement tool to improve the results that are being evaluated. This is why it would not be pointless to develop expenditure reviews, as is increasingly the case in other OECD countries. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LT groups]] To sum up, I agree with most of your findings and welcome the intensification of the links between Parliament and the Court of Auditors, in a context of restoring the balance of public accounts, a context which, however, should not distract us, on the contrary, from our common task of monitoring the budget and evaluating public policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u10	We come to the speakers on the list. Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u11	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Migaud and all the Court of Auditors services for this presentation and for the fine work they have done. We reiterate here an exercise launched last year, which allows the national representation to take ownership of your work in the context of the review of the 2018 Budget Settlement Bill, which is taking place this week. So today we are looking at the final results of this famous 2018 budget, this budget of the rich, symbol of the presidential project, this budget that has set the powders on fire and widened the fractures in our country. The Court of Auditors' report, which is more clear, corroborates the diagnosis we made in autumn 2017: the country's public finances have been the subject of a genuine public offer to buy, an OPA which is also very much hostile to the common good. While it is repeated to us that priority is to restore our public accounts, that the French must finally stop living beyond their means, that we cannot continue to obliterate the future of future generations, that we spend too much. In short, while the liberal doxa and its preachers have in the public debate their false guilty arguments, this report shows us very well the consequences of this bitter potion: in 2018, our country has 8.3 billion additional budget deficits! Mr Migaud, your report is clear on this point: first of all, public expenditure has been largely locked up, as a result, in particular, of these brutal cuts in personalized housing aids – APL – and of the removal by thousands of aided contracts, whose usefulness was proven in our territories, especially for associations. This government expenditure is therefore not at the root of this deficit. No. Things, as I said, are very clear and indisputable: as you pointed out, the additional budget deficit is the result of the tax cuts implemented in 2018. These are 13.5 billion taxes, of which 11.3 billion, or 84 per cent, were collected by the most affluent and the trading sector. In budgetary discussions, we often manipulate the figures without giving them a soul, without really giving them meaning or consistency. It is important to make these figures speak, so that our debates do not simply consist of expert conversations and meet the criteria for a genuine democratic debate. Especially since in this case, 11.3 billion euros, it is not a straw! So let's cut those billions. First of all, we learn that the CICE, the most expensive tax niche and unproven efficiency, saw its cost increase by 3.5 billion euros in 2018, which is the equivalent of the prison administration's budget. Thus, in 2018, our country had to pay for the extra cost of CICE the equivalent of what it spends annually for its prisons. Similarly, €3.2 billion of tax cuts result from the disappearance of the solidarity tax on wealth, the ISF. This abolition, which follows the Government and its majority as the Sparadrap sticks to the finger of Captain Haddock, represents little or no funding allocated each year to the judicial system in our country, i.e. the funds mobilized to finance the Court of Cassation, the 36 courts of appeal, the 836 courts of first instance, including the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance, 304 courts of instance, the courts of police, commerce, labour and social security. Nothing less. Tax relief on the income of shares, bonds and other financial securities results in €1.6 billion in tax cuts. It is a real gift to the affluent, who are, by far, the main holders of these financial securities. This corresponds to the addition of resources for the judicial protection of young people – 800 million euros –, the INSEE budget – 400 million euros – and administrative justice – 400 million euros as well. It should be noted that the implementation of the single flat-rate levy cost 300 million more than expected. We would like to have explanations from the Government on this outbreak of the order of 23 per cent. Perhaps the Court of Auditors could shed some light on this point. Three hundred million is what is needed to reduce VAT on public transport or to raise agricultural pensions. In addition, the Government, supported by its majority, has also witnessed a decline in corporate tax, with a view to raising its normal rate from 33.3 per cent to 25 per cent by the end of the quinquennium. The downward trajectory, started in 2018, cost €1.2 billion, more than the state's spending on asylum and immigration. Finally, everyone remembers here, the 3% dividend tax, introduced under the previous legislature with the laudable intention of better distributing the wealth created, had suffered the lightnings of European justice at the end of 2017. The Government had decided to abolish the tax, without providing for any alternative arrangements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u12	Since the tax is illegal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u13	It is therefore EUR 1.8 billion that is permanently escaping from the State funds, i.e., little or no funding for the overseas sector. Ultimately, in addition to increasing deficits, the measures for the wealthy and the trading sector have had the very concrete effect of depriving us of the resources equivalent to the funds allocated to prisons, the justice system as a whole, administrative justice, judicial justice and the judicial protection of young people, overseas, asylum and immigration and INSEE. It's absolutely out of the ordinary. The State has granted the most affluent and large groups the equivalent of the funds allocated to all these public service missions! All this for a small number; All this for a dark story of runoff that no one believes in, with the exception of those famous liberal preachers I mentioned earlier. The EUR 3 billion reduction in the housing tax, which also weakens the autonomy of the communities, appears to be very weak in the light of this privatisation of our public finances. The facts are stubborn, so are the numbers. The housing tax has fallen by €3 billion for 80% of those who pay for it – overall part of the middle and popular classes. But in parallel, those of our fellow citizens who belong to these middle and popular classes paid €4.3 billion in VAT and 2.6 billion in domestic consumption tax on energy products – TICEP – extra than 2017. The VAT, which everyone knows, and the ICTPE, which is regulated by the pump, are progressing while they are two tax levers that are so unfair and anti-redistributive: in fact, they penalize households with the lowest resources more strongly. The impact of the ICTPE is all the more serious because there is no credible alternative offer to the car – news has shown it to us. A vicious circle is emerging: economic inequalities create environmental inequalities and ecological policies, or supposedly ecological ones, can exacerbate inequalities without correcting the consumption patterns of those who pollute most. As is now proven, the very rich emit 40 times as much carbon as the poor, when the poor pay more than four times as much carbon tax as a percentage of their income. [[Christine Pires-Beaune and Jean-Luc Mélenchon applaud]] Social justice and environmental justice, social emergency and environmental emergency: if we say so, these two issues are inseparable. They are the two compasses of the communist project that we are defending in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u14	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u15	Once it is not customary, I share in every respect the words of the Chairman of the Finance Committee – at least the first ten minutes – on the "Spring of Evaluation". I would also like to thank you, Mr First President, and the Court of Auditors, for this advanced timetable for the publication of the budget implementation analysis notes and the report on the state budget. This provided us with useful documentation and an increased time frame for our work as special rapporteurs. Thank you for this fruitful cooperation. For 2018, our commitments are fulfilled, the results are good. We have managed to create a virtuous circle between tax cuts for individuals and businesses, on the one hand, and the consolidation of government accounts, on the other. For the first time in ten years, the deficit stands at 2.5%, not only below the 3% mark, but also below our own forecast of 2.8% in the original finance law; public expenditure decreased by EUR 12 billion; debt is contained below 100% of GDP. Where the previous majorities had sometimes used the plan to try to control public spending, sometimes carried out blind cuts that have destabilized many public services, to which the French are attached – they have reminded us recently –, we are not sacrificing anything of the commitments we have made: we are able to increase the resources allocated to priority policies, and we are making an unprecedented tax effort in favour of the purchasing power of individuals and the competitiveness of our companies, by lowering the compulsory levies – you have pointed out, Mr. First President. We owe these good results above all to a virtuous method. Never before had the Government been so careful to respect parliamentary authorization. Never before had the Government taken as much account of the collective consent to tax and expenditure as we express in voting on the finance bill here. Implementation is under control: the forecast gap is only EUR 1.1 billion out of 325.2 billion spent. The forecast is sincere: sub-budgeting accounts for only $1.5 billion in 2018 compared to more than $4 billion in the previous year, and set-aside rates are decreasing. As he had committed himself to it before us, the Minister of Action and Public Accounts did not use the advance orders to finance the 2018 execution. Ladies and gentlemen, our results are good, but our work has not yet been completed. Our responsibility is to continue to seek to reduce spending, to make it more efficient and, above all, to make it as efficient as possible. However, as the Court of Auditors notes, joining in this the observation of the Committee on Finance, our levers for action are perfect. Performance involves assessing expenditure and its effectiveness based on public policy objectives. I am convinced that there is a need for a clear separation of performance tools from expenditure control tools. We are therefore considering, within the framework of MILOLF, how best to envisage a binding standard of budgetary balance, without penalising growth or investment. As for performance, the Court recommends systematic expenditure reviews. This seems to me to be the natural path that the "Spring of Evaluation" will take. Several structural factors currently limit the scope of the performance approach. First of all, the indicators, against which we measure the effectiveness of public expenditure, are still too numerous, too abstract, too complex and sometimes too far from the concrete management requirements. Secondly, the fragmentation of budget texts today prohibits any consolidated vision of all financial flows between the state and its operators, between the state and the communities or social security. Let us begin by ending the fragmentation of the State budget, by reintegrating the supplementary budgets and the special accounts. Finally, given the stakes involved in financing the State, it is essential to hold a debt debate in Parliament every year, including a discussion on the monetary policy of the European Central Bank. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the effectiveness of expenditure is the measure of the usefulness of the tax that finances it. Let us not be afraid to take on this word of performance, because an efficient expenditure is a better tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u16	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u17	In the preamble, I would like to thank you once again, Mr First President, as well as all the members of the Court of Auditors, for the quality and relevance of the Court's analysis of the implementation of the accounts in 2018, thanks to which we were able to carry out in-depth work in the context of this second "Spring of Evaluation" which I hope will now be part of our traditions. The 2018 budget, all general government, has a general government deficit of 2.5% of GDP, below the 3% mark for the second consecutive year, down 0.3 percentage points from 2017, despite a 2018 year marked by a slowdown in global growth, but also of French growth from 2.3% in 2017 to 1.7% in 2018. However, it is regrettable that, for the first time since 2014, the government's budget deficit has deteriorated significantly, but, let us be honest, it is difficult to interpret as the financial relationship between the state and social security, on the one hand, and between the state and local authorities, on the other, is numerous and complex. Indeed, since the state budget compensates for the revenue cuts of the other two, any tax reduction mechanically degrades the balance. For example, net tax revenues from the general budget are decreasing, mainly due to VAT transfers to the regions and social security, which increase by €6 billion compared to 2017. In addition, there is a sharp decrease in the balance of special accounts by more than $4 billion. For all these reasons, rather than criticizing the deterioration of the budget deficit, we prefer to draw the Government's attention to the need to continue the rebalancing of financial relations between the State, social security and local communities. The fall in the public deficit is all the more remarkable since in 2018, taxes fell by €8.5 billion, mainly due to the one-third reduction in the housing tax for 80% of households at a cost of €3 billion, or to the universalisation of the tax credit for the employment of an employee at home, representing an effort of €1 billion. For expenditure, at constant scope, they increased by 0.3% compared to 2017, compared to a 3.2% increase between 2016 and 2017. This is a sign of a mastery of public spending and of improved management, as evidenced by the sharp decline in reserves and under-budgeting, without giving in to an alleged austerity policy. However, the picture is darker if you look at debt. Indeed, after a sharp increase in the late 2000s due to the financial crisis and the necessary recovery plan that followed it, then a small but almost continuous increase over the last decade, which marked a total lack of political will to curb it, the public debt was stabilised in 2018 at a level close to 100% of GDP, that is to say, close to 2300 billion euros. For some here, it would not be necessary to tackle debt for a wide variety of reasons depending on political sensitivities, ranging from low interest rates to refusal of austerity policy. But let us put the figures of the French public debt in perspective: 2300 billion euros, it is the equivalent of 80000 euros of public debt per household; Worse still, the debt burden, that is, the interest we pay each year on this debt, is enormous: it amounts to just under EUR 45 billion, or more than EUR 1500 per household per year. In order to finance the interest on the debt, France spends more than 1500 euros per household each year, much more than a SMIC. This money could be used to help the poorest households, to finance a plan for caring for dependency, or to accelerate the energy transition. The stock of debt is a ball that we pass on to our children and grandchildren, gravitating their future. The interests of this debt are balls that we drag today and weigh on our present. I come to tax expenditure, commonly referred to as tax niches, but let us first clarify one point: it is not because a scheme is described as a tax niche that it is necessarily harmful, unfair, guilty of all evils and therefore to eliminate. Many schemes specifically target older people, people with disabilities or low incomes – I am thinking of the housing tax exemptions. We should also mention the tax expenditure on sponsorship, on which I am currently carrying out extensive work, which illustrates these tax expenditure to support sectors that could not survive without such support. While these schemes correspond to the commonly accepted definition of fiscal niche, they are nevertheless useful and fair. However, let's look at the figures: tax niches have exploded over the last two decades, despite the removal of the CICE since January 1, 2019. The number of niches is now around 500, doubling in the last 20 years, and their total amount is over EUR 100 billion, as much as the budgets for education, defence, justice and ecology combined – that is to say! But, more than the amounts, it is the absence of a time limit, of encryption and more extensive evaluation, but also of pilotage that is deeply shocking. How can one in two tax niches be attributed to an unknown number of beneficiaries of the administration? How can we justify that, for 13% of tax niches, the cost to public finances is totally unknown? How can we justify spending millions of euros on two tax niches with totally contrary objectives, one encouraging the development of renewable energies and the other encouraging the development of carbon-based energies? For all these reasons, as early as last year, our majority, with the help of the Assembly's administration and administrators, began to work in depth on this subject, which has already been achieved in the 2019 budget by the removal of several tax niches, some of which are poorly used and ineffective, others which clearly run counter to respect for the environment. It's a work of titan, which it was important to start. It assumes that these tax niches are assessed, analysed and numbered to determine which ones are retained, because they have defined objectives, which can achieve an objective, which are removed – and also necessary – to replace them with other more relevant schemes – I am thinking, for example, of the transformation of the energy transition tax credit into a direct premium – and, finally, those which are simply eliminated because they are ineffective, inefficient or harmful to other objectives. The environment is one and it is the most obvious. We will have the opportunity to come back to the subject on Wednesday afternoon, when we consider our colleague Jolivet's resolution. I will conclude by welcoming the remarks made by the Chair of the Commission on the organization, development and progress of the "Evaluation Spring". This exercise seems necessary to me. If it still deserves to be improved, its usefulness is obvious. It's moving forward. Thank you once again, Mr First President of the Court of Auditors. With your magistrates, we have done good work in time. In addition, they showed real availability during the hearings. Mr General, I am counting on you to continue working on the issue of niches...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u18	You can!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u19	... and philanthropy with great objectivity, fighting the commonly accepted view that a niche would always be harmful. That's not true. There are good and bad ones. The most important thing is to know, to pilot and finally to decide knowingly. Don't know, it's not flying. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] A great man said that governing was a choice. Let's give ourselves the means to choose!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u20	I don't know if he was a great man, but I remember a parliamentarian saying that in every niche there was a dog.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u21	A mean dog, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u22	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u23	We begin this week's review of the "Spring of Evaluation" with the Court of Auditors' report on the state budget, the first full-year budget implemented by this government. Since his arrival in business, he has claimed to have returned to the public accounts, with a deficit reduced to 2.5% of GDP. All right! But I can also say without lying that, for the first time since 2014, and after three years of quasi-stability, the budget deficit is experiencing an increase – of 8.3 billion, including CICE, compared to the implementation of 2017 – which is not the case for the balance of local government accounts or social security. It is true that the reliefs of some can be compensated by others. Hence the need to consolidate the results of all public administrations. According to the Court of Auditors, the main reason for the situation is the impact of the tax cuts decided by the Government and the increase in the expenditure of State personnel. Government revenue covered only nine months of expenditure. We therefore operate on credit for three months of the year. It is important to point out that tax revenues are greatly affected by the drop in the taxes of the most favoured: the abolition of the ISF, the introduction of the flat tax, but also the reduction of the housing tax – it will continue to decrease, including for taxpayers who could perfectly continue to pay it. Lowering compulsory levies certainly makes purchasing power. However, it is necessary to return it to those who need it most, not the other way around, and to target the right samples. Income tax revenues are declining, as are other tax contributions, corporate and non-tax revenues. On the other hand, VAT and taxes on energy products have increased. In other words, the progressive tax – the IR –, the fairest, declines, while the most unfair taxes, such as VAT or ICTPE, increase. With regard to the increase in the wage bill, pointed out in this report, unlike the First President of the Court of Auditors, I shall not be relieved of that. At the same time, we cannot claim more State, more public services and less civil servants. If the target of 120,000 public service positions is buried, I am delighted, which does not prevent me from looking, department by department, at how to make the best service to all, everywhere and at the best cost. To support my position, I will come back to a topical issue discussed by the Court in its 2019 annual public report: the state of emergency services in our hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u25	For many years, the situation of these services has been regularly highlighted. Over the past 25 years, the number of emergency calls has tripled from 7 million in 1990 to 21 million in 2016, according to the latest figures of the Court. This cannot be explained solely by population growth or even by its ageing. Other phenomena are taking place, "too little analysed", as noted by the Court of Auditors in a report on the application of social security financing laws. While the Court observed in its 2019 annual public report that emergency services had been better organized in response to the explosion in the number of crossings and that during the previous quinquennium, real efforts had been made to gain a better knowledge of emergency counselling, it pointed to an understaffing that was causing tension in an increasing number of facilities. For example, on an ongoing basis, it estimates the need for emergency physicians to be more than 20% in full-time equivalents. I stress this because it is quite rare, Mr.First President, that you will agree that the institution you have the honour of chairing recommends new spending.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u26	Above all, she wants a new organization! No extra expenses!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u27	That is to say, how dramatic the situation is. I have also received some doctors from Riom Hospital, who have just voted for an unlimited strike, thus joining those of many hospitals in France. In the face of this situation, the Government is merely proposing a mission to recast emergency services and to release 70 million euros, while, on the basis of the current budgetary cost of emergencies, i.e. 3.1 billion euros, it would be necessary to release between 500 and 600 million euros. As we have seen in the great debate, health issues in some of the territories that are still outstanding are a priority concern. I believe it is urgent for the Government to follow the recommendations of the Court and to allocate the means necessary for our emergencies. This is one of the points highlighted in the Socialists' motion for a resolution, which will be discussed tomorrow in a public meeting. If, on the other hand, spending should be looked at very closely, it is tax niches. I welcome Minister Darmanin's willingness to do so. According to the Court of Auditors, these niches are on the rise. They reached $100 billion in 2018, up $6.7 billion from 2017, or $2.4 billion from CICE. You are insisting, Mr. First President, on the need to relaunch the work on the subject. I am pleased that the rapporteur-general, Joël Giraud, has planned to do this during the consideration of the finance bill for 2020. The last point in your report to which I wish to return is the lack of readability. The budgetary framework of the State is increasingly complex. The scope of expenditure in the general budget does not reflect a comprehensive and coherent vision of government spending. Thus, according to the Court of Auditors, the scope of the main budgetary principles of unity and universality is hampered. This criticism is not peculiar to the current majority, but I think it would be good to make our budgets collectively more readable and therefore more intelligible to all. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] I conclude by thanking all the members of the Court of Auditors for their work which feeds ours and, I hope, those of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u28	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u29	First of all, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for the quality of the documents it presents to us every year, as well as for the accuracy of its work. I would also like to thank you, Mr. First President, for the clarity of your presentation. In the preamble, let us remember that the 2018 financial year covers the first full year of management of the quinquennium and that, as a result, the results of the implementation of the 2018 budget are the responsibility of the Government and the majority. Also, the diagnosis made in the framework of the Court's report on the results of the management of the state budget for 2018 could be summed up in a simple way: as he had committed himself to it, the Government has made a greater sequencing of the budget, but the efforts to control public expenditure are still insufficient to restore the balance of our finances. It must be acknowledged that this 2018 exercise was marked by a marked improvement in the sincerity of our budget. The Court thus notes a decrease in sub-budgeting and a better controlled execution of public expenditure than in previous years, with in particular a lack of an advance decree during the year. It is necessary to stress this strong and realized will of the Government, which enables us parliamentarians to better carry out our missions while ensuring greater transparency in the accounts of the Nation. The second positive point is the level of government deficit. This is the second consecutive year that France's government deficit is below 3% of GDP, at 2.5% of gross domestic product, which marks our exit from the excessive deficit procedure that has been applied to us since 2009. This is a significant sign of this government's intention to significantly improve the control of our finances, and we must of course welcome it. However, we must remain vigilant because, as the Court points out, this level of deficit remains high, as it remains concentrated on the state budget, amounting to EUR 76 billion in budgetary accounting. It should also be noted that the structural effort, which measures the share of improvement resulting from government action alone, is almost zero, with barely 0.1 percentage points of GDP, according to the revised opinion on the draft regulation bill for 2018 of the High Council for Public Finance. This slight improvement in the structural balance is the result of an effort on public expenditure, which is partly absorbed by measures to reduce compulsory levies decided by the Government. The structural deficit thus remains far from the medium-term objective set out in the 2018-2022 law on public finance programming, which we voted at the beginning of the quinquennium. If we take stock of the past 25 years, none of the successive governments have known or been able to redress our country's public finances and it would be very damaging if the current government were to take the same path. We are well aware that the exercise is difficult, but I am dismayed, Mr.First President, that several of the Court's recommendations remain dead letter and are therefore repeated from year to year without any change or consideration by the various governments, even though they are likely to improve the situation in our country. With regard to the core of the Court of Auditors' report on the implementation of the state budget in 2018, the government's budget deficit, as you pointed out, has increased for the first time in five years, from €67.7 billion in 2017 to €76 billion, while both social security and local government administrations have experienced a surplus of their balance. Why, then, did the state deficit grow? It is simple: under the double effect of tax reduction measures and the increase in expenditure. It is important to be aware that, for the 2018 financial year, the government's revenue covered only nine months of expenditure, despite higher than originally expected revenues. Now, the budget deficit is higher than income tax revenues or even expenditures of the School Education Mission. Thus, the need for state funding continued to increase in 2018, reaching EUR 191.9 billion. The balance sheet at the end of 2018 shows that the State's net position, in general accounts, has deteriorated further compared to 2017, even as the debt burden of the State, too, continues to worsen as a result of the increase in the deficit. The Court's report therefore points out that our country's financial situation has not improved and that we must now act faster and stronger on the necessary control of our expenditure if we are to fulfil the commitment of the President of the Republic and the Government to restore public finances by the end of the term of office. In conclusion, I would like to say a word about the unprecedented approach to reflection on the reshaping of the performance of public financial management, initiated in the Court's report. Like many of my colleagues, Mr.First President, I am very sensitive to this approach of the institution you are chairing. This deepening of procedures and information has become indispensable in view of the ever-increasing complexity of the State's budgetary framework, of the information that has been enriched, at the risk of becoming overabundant, or of the incomplete procedures and tools to measure the efficiency of public policies. It is these issues that the Chairman of the Finance Committee and many of his colleagues are trying to raise, in particular through the new fact-finding mission on the implementation of the LOLF. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group, as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] For my part, I am very much in favour of a new impetus to improve the LOLF performance approach, but it is first and foremost the rationalization of information, the evolution of practices and mentalities that must be modified as a matter of priority. Although the performance approach needs to be completed in order to improve the efficiency of public spending, it seems even more essential to return to the fundamentals, reaffirming the principles of unity, universality, annuality and speciality of our budget. On this point, I fully agree with you, Mr. First President. This would allow us, I believe, to avoid many debuddling and to regain clarity. We would no longer be the world's champions of incomprehensible and indigestible taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u30	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u31	The year 2018 was marked by a management of the state's expenditures in line with the initial forecast. No advance order in the course of the year was required, while previous managements had experienced two or three. Thus, sub-budgeting was limited to EUR 1.5 billion in 2018. The Libertés et Territoires Group therefore acknowledges that the Government has managed to keep the expenditure envelope within the framework of budgetary authorities, thanks to the improvement of the quality of the initial budgeting. Cancellations and appropriations have also been among the lowest since the entry into force of the Financial Law Organization Act. The Court of Auditors welcomes the low level of the reserve: the reserve rate rose from 8% in 2017 to 3% in 2018. But, despite these satisfactions, some vulnerabilities persist in terms of practical management; Moreover, the enormous constraints of the budgetary framework remain. The opinion of the High Council for Public Finance shows the inadequacy of the structural effort to reduce public expenditure – an essential and eternal problem. You are reassessing this reduction to 0.3 percentage points of GDP, i.e. some EUR 7 billion per year. Let us remember, however, that during the July 2017 debate, the Minister for Action and Public Accounts had explained that the effort should be around €20 billion a year, which means that the 7 billion represents barely one third of the effort that would have to be made to actively redress public finances. We are aware that this challenge is considerable. The Court of Auditors rightly notes a slowdown in the increase in expenditure. However, in view of the High Council's opinion on all public expenditure, a question arises as to the measurement of expenditure by volume. You indicate that the value of GDP should be taken as the deflator, not the value of the consumer price index. After correcting the impact of the recapitalisation of Areva, we result in an increase of just under 1% in public expenditure by volume. That is not the way the Government presents things. The devil hides in the details. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors reports that the Government has reduced tax and social revenues, while continuing to increase tax expenditures. It is understandable that the State does not have the means of such a policy, or, if one prefers, that this policy is difficult to sustain in the long term. On this point, it should be encouraged to compensate for new expenditure by means of reductions due to competition. This naturally involves painful choices and obviously appears to be socially difficult. Unfortunately, the pattern of this trajectory is quite predictable and inevitable. With expenditures continuing to increase to $325.2 billion, and revenues declining to $248.3 billion, the deficit continues to grow mechanically. The fiscal framework is thus severely constrained, with a cumulative debt that is dangerously close to 100%, even though the level of fiscal pressure no longer leaves room for manoeuvre. Volens nolens, the state must therefore review its copy in terms of priority, reduction of expenditure, the whole building's flattening, the revision of niches, tax avoidance, golden parachutes or abusive retreats. At your hearing in the Committee on Finance on 22 May, Mr First President, we also examined the certification of state accounts. The Court describes them as "regular and sincere and giving a faithful picture of the financial situation and the assets of the State". However, I do not forget that it has four substantial reserves, one of which concerns anomalies in military inventory and tangible capital assets. As my colleague from Courson suggested in committee, nuclear weapons could be addressed by this last recommendation. As we have pointed out, meeting the commitments and budget forecasts is a first step. Finding ways to compensate for deficits is another challenge that we need to address. In 2018, I repeat, the balance sheet is cold: the deficit, on the one hand, and the debt, on the other, continued to rise. Expenditure in the general budget increased by 2.6 billion euros, due to a significant increase in staff expenditure, which increased by 2 % between 2017 and 2018, despite a stabilisation of staff. Although wage bill growth slowed slightly compared to 2017, it remains above the average trend between 2008 and 2017, even though the Government had set a target of 50000 abolitions of government officials over five years. Here too, we are aware of the difficulty of taking such a course, and we are not unaware of the social problems, particularly highlighted by the current crisis. The Libertés et Territoires Group includes the decline announced at the end of the major national debate, concerning the abolition of 120,000 posts of civil servants promised by the President of the Republic. It should also be noted that levies for the benefit of local authorities are falling by EUR 3.5 billion. The Court of Auditors believes that the State, social security and local authorities should better share the collective effort. The latter would contribute to a lesser extent to the reduction of the government deficit. Speaking of which, I'm opening a parenthesis. You have suggested, Mr. First President, the introduction of a single finance law with a consolidated state, community and social security account. This is a proposal that we support, as our colleague from Courson has had the opportunity to express it on several occasions. The Court of Auditors considers that the effort to reduce taxes should be combined with a proportionate effort to reduce expenditure, which the State should not be the only one to pursue. Does that mean that local authorities, with already limited resources and who have already fully participated in the financial effort, will have to make even more sacrifices in order to limit spending? In the Libertés et Territoires Group, we feel that the latter already play a role as an adjustment variable, while everyone knows that they are indispensable in terms of investment or, by definition, proximity policies. The nature of the financial and budgetary relations between the central State and local and regional authorities must be examined in the future. For our part, we believe that the fiscal powers of local and regional authorities should be extended. As far as Corsica is concerned, the territorial majority is clearly in favour of a policy of fiscal devolution, which would make it possible to modulate the powers and better adapt them to the economic and social realities of the island. It's about sending a readable message. The social crisis is deep. For several months, the French have been demanding more redistribution, more local public services, more purchasing power. The fiscal framework, international competition, demographic ageing, environmental problems, all this situation makes it difficult to respond to these legitimate demands. To recreate confidence and act positively, a deep effort of clarity and rationalisation of choices is necessary. It was also necessary to leave the territories and maintain their means of action. How can we explain to our fellow citizens that local authorities, as guarantors of the social link of proximity, should be further reduced in their budget? In short, the control of budgetary balances requires a continuous and difficult effort. This effort must continue, without losing sight of the immensity of needs, and therefore without disconnecting with the concern for social solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u32	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u33	The friends of the state, the insoumis and its admirers, can only welcome your presence in this House, remembering that this year the House of Auditors has existed for seven centuries. Indeed, it was created in 1319 under King Jean Le Bon to settle certain disorders, which continued and gave rise, in 1358, to the Great Jacquerie and to the revolt of Étienne Marcel. This was, in a way, the prefiguration of the great revolution of 1789 – which had been motivated by tax reasons – and the movement of the yellow vests, which came from the same factors. You are aware, moreover, that the Jacques were named in this way with reference to the vests that the peasants were wearing at the time. We see you coming with a lot of favor, you who are independent: in 1467, King Louis XI decides that you are inviolable, that you cannot change the course of your careers and that, unless you are out of control, you are there for the whole life, before Napoleon swallows it all. Here you are, Mr President, after we tried to circumvent you again in 2012, by trying to create, on the basis of Article 3 of the TSCG – Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance – in relation to the two-pack, the six-pack and other inventions of this distant heir to the Holy Roman Empire of the European Union, an additional chamber to monitor public accounts and verify their adequacy with European directives. Fortunately, the Holy Empire broke on the old French institution. You are both the Court of Auditors and the institute planned by Europe: so much the better, Europe has not been right about you. I can tell you quite frankly: I have found your report less caricatureally liberal than other services that the Court of Auditors has delivered in the past. I was very pleasantly surprised by what I read. I have heard in this rostrum, once again, recapture the anti-women on the control of public spending. It's extremely fun and entertaining, though very repetitive. It has been years since the state was accused of spending too much money, and so on, without anyone bothering to understand for a moment how the state is still in deficit. But this is not just about his expenditure, but, I dare say, about his revenue. It has been three decades since the State was systematically and methodically impoverished.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u34	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u35	It is being impoverished to favour certain social groups in this country. In fact, this year, the deficit is increasing by 9 billion, while we have still made a gift – 16 billion – to the richest, under the regime of flat tax, tax on wealth, various and varied niches. If we were to call those who gave a lot of money, instead of the modest share that we dare to take from them, the state would not have had a deficit this year. You could also have noted in your report, Mr.First President – although you have looked in this direction – that the 9 billion missing in 2019 corresponds to the balance of what France gives to the European Union. In other words, after it has paid us the appropriations of the common agricultural policy and the rest, the European Union still holds in its coffers 9 billions that we have given it. For a country that is constantly said to be in deficit, to be in poverty, to stop spending indiscriminately, admit that 9 billion given to the European Union is an ostentatious expenditure, which is beyond our means. In short, my first conclusion, which has been validated by what I have read in your report, is that two things are horribly expensive for us: the rich and the European Union. We will again be told "public debt, this, public debt," but no one is interested in the content of the debt: is it investment or not? One thing is certain: long-term debt, in France, does not fall from the sky and does not come from an abuse of expenditure. German unification cost our country over 100 billion at the time. Indeed, the French had to run behind the German Central Bank and follow its interest rates, although they had no reason to do so. In the meantime, what is certain is that public debt is not the main source of anxiety for the global economy. At this time, the main concerns come from private debt, which accounts for two thirds of the total global debt of $189,000 billion. But no one talks about this. Private debt, however, is infinitely more sensitive to States than any other debt. When a state is there, it is forever; We always find a way to run behind him so he can repay his loans. We saw that even the Russian loan was repaid. On the other hand, when a private actor goes bankrupt, he says goodbye and everyone has lost. The situation is therefore worrying. The remedies applied to reduce public debt by reducing state spending have shown their absolute inefficiency. For example, Greece has been applying a horse remedy for eight years, which is finally back on the financial markets. What a joy! What a concert of praise! In the meantime, however, Greek public debt has increased considerably, from 146 per cent of GDP in 2010, when the crisis broke out to 178 per cent today. In other words, all this has been of no use, except to cause the Greeks abominably to suffer and to scare the rest of Europe. There is something that the Court of Auditors could report about our public debt. By means of a budget and accounting pass-through, as there are dozens of them whose mechanism escapes the common mortals, and while Europe never grants a cent of public expenditure to anyone, the European Central Bank has managed to balance every month, for a whole year, 85 billion euros pro Deo free to all the private banks that have asked it. In total, all this represented the considerable amount of €2600 billion, which was donated without consideration to private banks. As this massive injection of liquidity has not led to a single point of inflation, we can deduce that the whole of the money has gone into the financial sphere, without anyone seeing any trace of it in the real economy. Through the European Central Bank, which buys from private banks debt securities issued by the states, the French central bank owns EUR 417 billion of French public debt, representing 18% of our total public debt. I will not explain in detail our proposal to turn our debt securities into perpetual debt without interest. Perpetual debt is possible. Interest-free debt is equally so, since the German central bank is currently lending at negative rates; However, for my part, I simply recommend maintaining or stabilizing the value of securities, which would allow institutions that would own them in their balance sheet not to lose assets. The figures show that our proposal is quite achievable: it would bring the level of French debt down from 99 per cent of GDP to 80 per cent. Personally, I don't care about this level of public debt. Indeed, in assessing public expenditure, I believe that French debt does not represent 99% of the GDP of a year. This method of calculation is absolutely stupid: given the spread of the debt – the average duration of the debt is seven years – it represents just 12% of what we produce in a year. Mr. First President, if you've bought a car or a dwelling, try to report all your debts on your annual income... We could call the UAS right now, because you'd be so bad! However, this is what the French State is asked to do. All this is absurd: such an accounting does not make sense. [[Smile]] In the short time remaining, I will mention the criticisms expressed by the Court of Auditors which I can approve. It is absolutely extraordinary to find unsubstantiated words under the pen of the Court! For example, you described the innovation fund in the industry as "complex and unwarranted", which "should find its place in the general budget" – you repeated it again in this forum. You added: "This set-up has led to unnecessarily complicated operations, in part to display an allocation of 10 billion euros to finance break-up innovation, while in practice 250 million euros will actually be spent on it annually. Why would we doubt that? In other words, you accuse the Government of making communication! I am surprised that I did not see the Members of the majority point at you, that they did not hear them protest with the words they usually use against us. I repeat, the creation of this fund is exclusively for communication purposes. You also point out that the revenue that will be derived from this fund, when it is placed, will be lower than what the corresponding institutions reported before being privatized: the total rate of return, which now reaches 13%, will be barely 2.5% after the magical operation carried out by The Republic on the move. Unfortunately, I am obliged to conclude, although I would have so much liked to express my agreement with a number of observations contained in the Court of Auditors' report! You yourself write, Mr.First President, that the CICE "has not had a short-term impact on investment, research and development or exports." You say that it "probably had a positive but moderate effect on employment", but you don't look very sure... In other words, all this was useless. The CICE is a gabegie: it is money that has been given to the most powerful for a result equal to zero. Who says so? Melenchon and the unsuspecting, those rabids? Not at all! He is the moderate Didier Migaud, the first President of the Court of Auditors, a reasonable man if he is one in this country! [[Applause on the benches of the FI, SOC and GDR groups]] As for most of the tax niches to which you refer, you say that it is impossible to prove that they were used for anything. You quote several that are constantly increasing without knowing what they are used for, but that are "tax expenditures" – as for us, we are talking about "gifts." Once again, it is only possible to conclude one thing: it is the rich and the technocrats who are horribly expensive to this country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u36	[[Smile]] Mr Mélenchon, you gave us an additional reason to read the entire report of the Court of Auditors! Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u37	The Court of Auditors' report on the state budget for 2018 gives us the opportunity to review the expenditure of local and regional authorities, which, I would remind you, represents €237 billion, or almost 20% of public expenditure. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the Public Finance Programming Act for the years 2018 to 2022 has put in place a financial contract between the State and the 322 largest local and regional authorities, which must limit the increase in their operating expenses to 1.2%. Last year, in its report on the outlook for public finances for 2018, the Court of Auditors noted that "the main threat in terms of expenditure lies in the strong uncertainties surrounding the implementation and impact of the new contracting mechanism between the State and the 322 largest local and regional authorities". A year later, when reading your report, we are pleased that, "if the detailed assessment of the application of the contracts is not yet known, it appears that, considered as a whole, the local and regional authorities met the target in 2018". The situation has thus improved. Indeed, the pre-report of the Observatory for Finance and Local Public Management estimates that the operating expenditure of all local authorities has increased by 0.9%, including supplementary budgets and trade unions; However, for those communities that have contracted, actual operating expenditures, excluding the attached budget, decrease by 0.2%. These good results come primarily from the rigorous management of elected officials, with a particular focus on staff costs. At the same time, with the resumption of economic activity, community tax revenues are increasing. Thus, thanks to the control of their operating expenses and a better return on local taxation, the gross savings of communities increased by 6.3% in 2018 – the strongest increase in the last three years. Investment expenditure rose 6.4% last year. This increase was supported by local investment support allocations and the overall operating allocation – DGF – the overall level of which was maintained. For the first time since 2003, the debt stock of local and regional authorities is stabilizing. The majority met their commitments to communities by maintaining endowments; communities have met their commitments to the state by controlling their spending. Everyone wins. We are on our way to regain confidence, at a time when contracting is part of a broader set of territorial pacts between the state and communities. It should also be stressed that the regions are seeing the abolition of their DGF more than offset by the allocation of a share of VAT revenue, which allows their resources to increase by almost EUR 300 million. A few months before a reform of local taxation, we see that tax transfers can have many advantages. So agree, ladies and gentlemen, that this method of contracting out is more virtuous than the drastic fall in allocations between 2013 and 2017, which had led to a very significant fall in investments, of the order of 18%. And I am not talking about the right-wing candidate in the presidential election, who wanted to reduce the allocation to local and regional authorities by EUR 15 billion. Of course, as with any new mechanism, there are improvements to be made. This is what the Government has already done this year, for example by neutralizing for the departments the increase in expenditure on unaccompanied minors or any increase in social expenditure of more than 2 per cent. The comprehensive assessment, which will be completed by the end of the month, will allow us to further refine this mechanism, which is already bearing fruit. Financial contracting is therefore an additional stone to the building that we build to build a strong bond of trust with local elected officials, giving them the visibility necessary to carry out their projects and ensuring the stability of their endowments. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] By creating the National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories, by incorporating the right to territorial differentiation into the Constitution in the near future, by encouraging the involvement of local elected representatives, by protecting them in the exercise of their mandate, by initiating a new stage of decentralization, by reviving the deconcentration, we are leading, ladies and gentlemen, an ambitious policy aimed at ensuring the harmonious development of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u38	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u39	The annual publication of the Court of Auditors' report on the state budget is always a particularly instructive moment, as well as a relevant verdict on the executive's budgetary policy. The first observation, in total contradiction with the regular satisfactions of the Government, is implacable: despite finally higher than expected revenues, the state deficit increased in 2018, mainly due to the increase in public spending. Since 2017, the budget deficit has increased from €67.7 billion to €76 billion. We already hear members of the majority reply that this increase in the deficit is due to the exceptional measures decided by the President of the Republic following the yellow vest crisis. That is obviously not the only reason. For example, the Court of Auditors notes that the revenue levy for the European Union rose sharply in 2018, after a low point in 2017 – it was EUR 20.6 billion, compared with EUR 16.4 billion the previous year, and could even increase next year. However, France's level of contribution to the European Union budget is not justified in any way, particularly when we know that our country is a net contributor, that is to say, it gives more than it receives in return, including with regard to the common agricultural policy. Our farmers certainly need help to develop their business, but there is no need to go through the European Union's filter for this. The French agricultural policy which we wish to implement must allow direct aid to be granted to the agricultural world, which needs it so much. This report also points to the decline in net government revenues compared to 2017. In particular, it confirms the loss of more than €3 billion caused by the replacement of the IFI by the IFI – the property tax – as well as a loss of €3.5 billion under the CICE. With regard to the creation of posts, we would like a special effort to be made in the areas of the rule of law, including health, police and justice. In a context of ever-high terrorist threats and crime that continues to poison the daily lives of our compatriots, it is imperative to focus on recruitment. The Court of Auditors states in particular that, for the Ministry of the Interior's "Security" mission, net job creation was lower than expected in 2018. On the contrary, there is a need to recruit more, and above all to improve the working conditions of our law enforcement agencies, many of whom operate under conditions that are often particularly precarious. The declines in some intervention spending may first appear to be positive, but to look closer, we see – or, more precisely, we get confirmation – that they can touch on elements that are often essential to the functioning of our communities. This is the case, for example, of the intervention expenditure of the "Work and employment" mission, whose decrease of 16% is due to the drastic reduction in assisted contracts, whose survivors have been renamed "job skills journey". Although these contracts may present a form of precariousness, they are often indispensable for the proper functioning of certain services in our small communes. The same applies to the decline in the expenditure of the "Cohesion des territoires" mission, which in reality corresponds to the decline in housing subsidies and which, ultimately, directly penalizes the most modest French who struggle to live in. And I am not talking about the exorbitant cost of immigration, which for the only state medical aid, reserved for illegal immigrants, amounts to almost a billion euros and is constantly increasing. We readily accept that it is not healthy for a State to have such a high debt and that this debt will ultimately have to be borne by future generations, but the rationalization of public expenditure must be done in a spirit of justice and equity, for the benefit of our compatriots as a matter of priority and for the benefit of all the territories, particularly rural ones. This philosophy is not that of the President of the Republic and his majority. The French have indicated this in the last elections: they are calling for a change of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u40	The debate on the Court of Auditors' report on the State budget is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u41	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u42	[[The sitting was suspended at 18.00 and resumed at 18.00, with Annie Genevard in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u43	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u44	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of Mrs Sarah El Haïry's motion for a resolution calling on the Government to continue and step up its efforts towards an ambitious policy of citizen engagement (No. 2009).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u45	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u46	It is both on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement and as the Special Rapporteur on the appropriations of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission that I have the pleasure of defending this motion for a resolution before you. Since this is the first one to be discussed in the "spring of evaluation", I would like to welcome the very successful renewal of this exercise. It is necessary for the national representation we are to be able to ensure the use of the budgets it authorizes; Nor is it pointless for the Government to hear Parliament's analysis as the finance bill prepares to arrive in our Chamber. I now turn to the motion for a resolution which I call for the vote on. Its purpose, which is to invite the Government to continue and step up its efforts towards an ambitious policy of citizen engagement, may seem broad. And yet, to stick to the news having occupied part of the youth of France for four hours this morning, during the ritual test of philosophy, if the work divides men, the commitment brings together. If the plurality of cultures is an obstacle to the unity of the human race, commitment brings together. Finally, if to recognize one's duties is to renounce one's freedom, then committing oneself is an act of freedom. We can agree on this point: the only public authority, the only private companies could not directly carry out a considerable volume of central missions in the lives of our compatriots. Yes, our country's social model is based on commitment. I fully accept this, as a member of the Committee on Finance, since we cannot imagine monetizing everything. I am thinking of the role of voluntary, voluntary and voluntary involvement in the promotion of sports and cultural practices, social assistance, civil security and first aid – a subject that is dear to me since it is the subject of my second special report. I also support charitable or humanitarian engagement, school support, popular education, the transmission of know-how between communities and generations, or the preservation of the environment: all this would not be possible without our associations and the involvement of volunteers in our territories. I could keep drawing up the list: as we see every day in our ridings, our fellow volunteers are thirsty to be useful, thirsty for commitment. But, precisely, when a goal is agreed, when we applaud on these benches the same idea, like commitment, it can sometimes happen, in a very paradoxical way, that we say that since it is consensus, then it is automatic. That's not the case! We must remain vigilant in our support because, unfortunately, things are not so simple. The motion for a resolution that we are discussing today highlights three public policy levers that have demonstrated their relevance and that the Government could support more: the citizen engagement account, the youth testing fund and the universal national service. The first point is the citizen engagement account, or CEC: this is one of the three pillars of the personal business account. The CEC is an innovative tool for identifying and valuing citizens' activities in order to facilitate the acquisition of training rights. Yet, while it was established by the law of 8 August 2016, known as the El Khomri law, the CEC is still not operational; The "spring of the evaluation" had already highlighted this in 2018. There is, of course, a budgetary issue, since it is important to redeploy appropriations from one year to the next. But beyond that, the President of the Republic calls for a society of commitment. It is therefore more than necessary to take the step by making the EQF effective. The causes of the delay were analysed. They are of two main types: on the one hand, several legislative changes have made their implementation more difficult; on the other hand, the existence of a technical difficulty with the Caisse des Dépôts, which it is more than necessary to solve in order to allow the deployment of the CEC. I would like to commend the direction of youth, popular education and associative life, the DJEPVA, for its work. It has done everything it could, and even more so, to ensure that it is implemented. Mr Secretary of State, I therefore count on your support to support this particular direction and the departmental directorates, so that the commitment is recognized and this citizen engagement account becomes a reality for volunteers in our territories. The vote on this motion for a resolution will reflect the desire of the national representation to resolve three points: the unequal accessibility of training according to whether the rights mobilised have been fed through voluntary or paid activities; the imperfect eligibility of pensioners; and some inaccuracies still to be clarified. Today is a necessity. I will also remain extremely attentive to the particular situation of our volunteer firefighters, to whom I support, because they too can use the citizen engagement account. Second point: the Youth Experiment Fund, says FEJ. It may be a little less well known, so let me introduce it in a few words – this is the main theme of my report as part of the "Spring of Evaluation". The EJF is a financial instrument introduced in 2008, together with active solidarity income, the RSA. In ten years, this fund has made it possible to finance more than 959 projects – almost 1,000! – and to mobilise EUR 258 million. Without the EYF, it is no exaggeration to say that some structuring public policies would not exist today. I am of course thinking of the youth guarantee, of whole sections of programmes to combat early school leaving, of the "parents' briefcase", created by Jean-Michel Blanquer, who is now Minister of National Education, or of "talk bambin", another programme which has proved its worth in the crèches. The FEJ is supported by the National Institute of Youth and People's Education, whose teams and scientific ambition are increasingly demanding. I have heard a number of associations: it is necessary to accompany them with this fund, whose seeding effect will make it possible to implement extremely ambitious projects, covering topics not always easy to defend, such as the issue of sexuality in rural areas or discrimination. However, the EYF is likely to live its last hours because its resources are shrinking one after the other. The State, in the context we know, has not abounded in this system for several years. Thus, out of the 260 million euros left at the start, only 6.79 million euros remain in the caisses. The adoption of this motion for a resolution would send a very clear message to the executive, but above all to the private sector: to the extent that it is necessary to increase the resources of the EYF, I advocate a major campaign with the corporate foundations and the retail chains. With EUR 10 million in the first phase, then an annual and non-final budget of EUR 30 million in the long term, the EYF could continue to value the superb projects that the community network is running for our young people. Finally, the third and last point I would like to address is the universal national service. I am a fervent defender of the SNU and you will therefore allow me to rejoice at the launch yesterday of its prefiguration in thirteen departments, including my department of the Loire-Atlantique. The young participants come with certain differences, which will make the richness of this experiment. Important lessons can be drawn from this on the respective role of the armed forces and internal security, notably through their reservists, whose action I welcome, associations of popular education, memory or civil protection, local authorities and secondary education. It also involves mix and gender issues. Hopefully, we will rejoice at the birth of "SNU babies" – not just after, but a few years later! – : it will show that the heart of our society is beating in its youth. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, IUD-I and LT groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] We look forward, Mr. Secretary of State, to the light you will bring to national representation when the legislation is presented to us. In conclusion, with the vote on this resolution, we propose that you signify the attention paid by the National Assembly to the deployment of the citizen engagement account, to the securing of the youth testing fund and to the rise of the SNU. Because citizen engagement in a society is often a glimmer of hope, because citizen engagement in our Republic is the mark that there is a social contract that binds us together, because citizen engagement in France shows that our country is living in all its territories and in all its diversities, I invite you to show through your vote that national representation accompanies and wishes to amplify citizen engagement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u47	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u48	[[Applause on all benches]] I thank the MODEM Group and the rapporteur, Sarah El Haïry, for this motion for a resolution, which allows us to debate again in the Chamber about citizen engagement and associative life. Associative life in our country is based on the daily or more ad hoc commitment of 13 million volunteers in just over a million associations. With the national representation as a whole, I want to pay tribute to the 8000 volunteers of the National Lifesaving Society at Sea, and in particular to the three volunteer sailors who lost their lives off the Sables d'Olonne last week. This commitment, we owe it to the law of 1 July 1901 on the contract of association, one of the great laws of our Republic, more current than ever since it is created every year 70000 new associations according to the study of Research and Solidarity. While the vast majority of these associations – 85% of them – rely on the action of their volunteers alone, which still represents 680,000 full-time equivalents, the voluntary sector is also very dynamic in terms of the creation of permanent and non-relocable jobs, with almost 1.8 million employees in almost 163,400 associations, or 400,000 more employees than in the transport or construction sector. This sector represents 39 billion euros in salaries distributed in 2017 and 10% of private employees work in an association. Associative engagement is a considerable asset, but it is also a specificity that we are envied throughout Europe. It is a jewel that must be maintained, a wealth that we must preserve and strengthen because it is fragile. The associative world is today concerned, and a number of recent developments, referred to in The French Associative Landscape 2018, which have been introduced to you recently, Secretary of State, must alert us collectively. Concern about the financial resources of associations, first of all: the study shows that public funding declined for the first time in volume between 2006 and 2017, with a sharp decrease in grants, which now represent only 20% of the resources of associations, compared to 34% in 2005. Then worried for the dynamism of public generosity, indispensable to the financial balance of the associations. According to the barometer of France Générosités, which recorded a decrease in the number of donors, donations to associations and foundations fell significantly by 4.2 per cent in 2018 as a result of the Government's tax decisions on the CSG and the ISF, compared with a 9 per cent increase between 2013 and 2017. The main associations' networks have had the opportunity to alert you to the potentially disastrous consequences of a weakening of patronage due to some of the reform avenues mentioned in the ranks of the majority: we had rejected them at the end of 2018 in the Finance Committee, but they seem to be coming back to the news in the finance bill for 2020. Finally, concerned about the employment of associations, which stagnates for the first time in 2017, as well as the number of employers' associations, leading, as Viviane Chernonog, a researcher at the CNRS, to a weakening of middle-sized associations, which are deeply rooted in our territories. These concerns about associative employment, in particular for medium-sized associations, arise at a time when associations are heavily affected by decisions taken since the beginning of the quinquennium: the abrupt abolition of 80% of the contracts assisted in three years, while the latest note from DARES – Directorate for the animation of research, studies and statistics of the Ministry of Labour – highlights a much better positive exit rate towards the employment of the beneficiaries of these contracts – about 50% in 2017 –; the abolition of the bulk of the financial aid from the parliamentary reserve; the elimination of educational projects from territories and extra-curricular activity time over the week, replaced by the famous "Plan Wednesday", which has difficulty to materialize in our territories, with adverse consequences for employment in the field of animation and popular education. At the same time, as pointed out in the MODEM Group's motion for a resolution, the Government lacks ambition to develop mechanisms for valuing and recognising volunteerism as the citizen engagement account, which allows every volunteer who works 200 hours in an association to receive 20 hours of training, but also the voluntary commitment leave, which allows employees, if there is a company agreement, to receive remuneration for six days during which they make themselves available to their association. This lack of ambition on the communication of these tools voted three years ago is also accompanied by a lack of budgetary ambition. I hope with you, Madam rapporteur, that things will move faster, especially in the case of shifting the amounts of the associations' inactive accounts to the fund for the development of association life, so that this provision, of which we have included the perspective in a recent proposal for a law on the involvement of associations, will not be lost in the limbos of the administration. The Government owes us a report, and I hope that it will take place very soon. Similarly, at a time when the pension project is being sketched out and the path of a quarter subsidy is being discussed for family caregivers, I hope that the volunteers responsible who sometimes give twenty, thirty or forty years for the general interest will not be forgotten of this possibility of increase, even symbolic. I come to the UNS, which is more current than ever, its experiment starting today. This experiment involves 2000 young volunteers – boys and girls – over 16 years old in 13 pilot departments. The first phase of fifteen days in dedicated centres is supposed to constitute "a rite of transition to citizenship", according to the words of Secretary of State Gabriel Attal. This presidential commitment starts with a laudable intention, but in practice it will be very difficult to generalize in 2022, and even in 2026. Its financial cost is exorbitant: 1.6 billion euros, which would be better used for the reception and success of students, which will be 30000 more per year over the next five years. Gabriel Attal announced last week a cost of 4 million euros for the experiment in 2019, which will be taken on the 163 program "Youth and Associative Life". To the detriment of what other actions, Secretary of State? Above all, if we project in 2020, with 40,000 volunteers expected, the financial cost would reach 80 million euros. How can we not agree here with the concerns of the Court of Auditors about the risk that this funding could put on the rise of the civic service? Instead of creating with the SNU a new "tout-tout" obligation, we consider that we need to build on the existing one and reinforce the citizenship path established by the Equality and Citizenship Act voted in 2017, with a key step: voluntary civic service. This civic journey provides for the handing over of a civic booklet to the students, with the national diploma of the patent, to sum up the commitments, in particular associations, of young people; But Minister Blanquer did not want to implement this mechanism for the time being, even though he said he was open – more than his services – to consider its application in 2021. Why wait for 16 years when this civic journey must start at an early age? The UNS would promote social mixing, but is it not the role of national education to ensure school social mix? The UNS would help to combat the drop-out. School drop-out missions, in conjunction with national education partners, are already carrying out effective prevention work: the number of school drop-outs has increased from 130000 to 90000 in five years thanks to early detection of drop-out before 16 years. The Government is also thinking of the UNS to carry out health checks, but they are already compulsory at the age of 12 in the context of school medicine, sixth, and still have to be completed, I grant you, by a second assessment in class of third, before 16 years. First aid gestures and reflexes are mentioned in the event of a crisis, but their learning is already inscribed black on white in the national education code. From school to college, there is an awareness of the actions that save and training, notably through the PSC1 system, Prevention and Civic Relief level 1, and then in high school with additional training. We can always do better, of course. As far as sports activities are concerned, first- and second-level students regularly practice sports in schools as part of physical and sports education and school sport. As can be seen, the UNS is redundant with many existing mechanisms, either within national education or within the framework of the Defence and Citizenship Day, but even more so with the civic service set up for eight years, which still has to rise in power beyond the current 150,000 young people, without having to invent a new costly gas plant. Finally, how will the UNS be managed by officials of the deconcentrated services of the State, especially those of youth and sports? A circular from the Prime Minister provides that they will be integrated into the Ministry of National Education to carry out certain tasks with the rectors, but also with the prefects. Can you assure us that the UNS will be well monitored by officials of the deconcentrated services of the State? [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] In view of these reservations about the UNS, and despite the fact that the rapporteur is asking very good questions about the citizen engagement account and the experimental fund for young people, the Socialist and related group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u49	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u50	Today we have the opportunity to discuss the establishment of an ambitious policy of citizen engagement. This is an extremely important subject at a time when we are all seeking national harmony and the gathering of the French. I would like to thank our colleagues in the MODEM Group, in particular Sarah El Haïry, for promoting this cause. In May of this year, we had already supported the bill in favour of associative engagement discussed within the parliamentary niche of the MODEM group. This text was intended, in particular, for non-profit leaders, who bear disproportionate administrative and legal responsibilities. Indeed, we believe that citizen engagement is the cornerstone of our democratic and social pact, without which no territorial cohesion would be possible. Because, in the face of the decline in public services, a heightened sense of abandonment, the elimination of assisted jobs and, I must say, the abolition of the parliamentary reserve, associations have a more important role in our country than ever before. In our view, the abolition of the parliamentary reserve in favour of the establishment of a fund for the development of associative life remains a mistake, in two ways: many associations are not aware of this fund and the supervision of the parliamentary reserve was sufficiently restrictive to avoid abuses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u51	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u52	The fund is now managed by the senior administration, where parliamentarians, as representatives of the nation, used to influence projects of best interest to the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u53	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u54	We must restore confidence in our elected representatives: this is the first step in rebuilding confidence between the living forces of our territories and our republican institutions. Every day, it is thousands of volunteers who commit themselves to living our territories and sharing, in a fabulous spirit of cohesion. Citizen engagement is expressed in particular through our many amateur sports associations, which are a formidable vehicle for the revitalization of the territories and the local community fabric. Unfortunately, they are too often the victims of funding difficulties, as local and regional authorities are increasingly struggling to support them. Our group is proud to support texts aimed at fostering citizen engagement and facilitating the lives of our association leaders. The motion for a resolution deals with three specific arrangements: the citizen engagement account, the youth testing fund and the universal national service. The citizen engagement account enables the commitment to be valued by identifying the voluntary activity and translating it into a sum of money paid into the personal training account. As the motion for a resolution indicates, the lack of communication and the management of the system by central administrations amputates the deployment of the system, to the extent that a large number of committed appropriations have not been consumed. It is therefore common sense that the Government should take the necessary steps to ensure that this innovative mechanism is a success. As far as the Youth Experiment Fund is concerned, it aims to finance experiments for school success, equal opportunities and the improvement of the sustainable social and vocational integration of young people under 25 years of age. The motion for a resolution calls on the Government to encourage private companies to invest in the fund, given its lack of funding. Even if this fund is an original scheme, encouraging private companies to invest is tantamount to asking for the creation of a new tax niche. As you know, our group is opposed to the multiplication of tax niches. We are calling for these niches to be flattened before creating new niches, especially since they remain the variable for the adjustment of successive governments in fiscal policy; They therefore do not contribute to the fiscal stability that our country needs. Finally, the universal national service is a programme that has tremendous hopes. Since the suspension of military service, there has been no replacement for him. The professionalization of the armies put an end to this generation of so-called people who found themselves in a given time and for a cause that transcended their mere individuality. While we welcome the professionalization of the army, we consider that Defence and Citizenship Day is far from sufficient to generate citizen engagement and convey the values of the Republic to our young people. We believe that young French people need a real moment in their civic journey that allows them to meet with other men and women of the same age, but with different social and geographical origins. This time will allow these young people to internalize the values that bind us within the same society, with a common goal of emancipation of the human person. It will also be a question of developing a spirit of defence so that everyone can appreciate the contemporary threats we face. However, our group is wondering about the particular issue of universal national service, like the drafters of the motion for a resolution, and first of all about the duration of the scheme: will the 15 days of boarding be enough to get young French people from all walks of life to meet? Our questions also relate to the financing of the scheme: although the Government believes that this funding should reach just over EUR 1 billion, we will remain vigilant about the cost that the deployment of this scheme will entail for our public finances. The actual assessment of the prefiguration launched today therefore seems to us more than necessary. Above all, as with any public policy or new system of general interest, the implementation of assessment tools along the water must be an imperative reflex. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, MODEM and GDR groups]] As you will understand, our group will support this motion for a resolution in order to continue and step up efforts towards an ambitious policy of citizen engagement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u55	Mrs Sandrine Josso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u56	Today, in France, 1.3 million associations are active. Every year, millions of French and French people decide to commit themselves, to give their time, to promote values of solidarity and self-help. Every year, this commitment allows other citizens to have access to cultural, sporting practices and to be accompanied on a daily basis, in their schooling for the youngest, or even to be rescued. Every year, every day, causes are defended, thanks to the commitment of millions of French and French. This society of commitment carries fundamental values.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u57	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u58	It is a tool of solidarity, of the order of democracy and of living-together – I would even say good living-together. We all see it on the ground. In these difficult times, we must use all the creativity of the citizens, all the values of solidarity that bring us all together. In this context, we are today invited to discuss a motion for a resolution calling on the Government to continue and step up its efforts towards an ambitious policy of citizen engagement. For yes, efforts have been initiated: the citizen engagement account, first of all, set up by the 2016 law on labour, the modernization of social dialogue and the securing of professional paths. This citizen engagement account is one of the three pillars of the personal business account. It enhances citizens' activities and enables them to acquire training rights and pension rights. We cannot but deplore, like the authors of this resolution, the lack of communication around the citizen engagement account, as well as the delay in the deployment of this mechanism. This was highlighted at the end of the 2018 "Spring of Evaluation". It is therefore necessary for the Government to reaffirm and deepen its ambition for the citizen engagement account. Another mechanism is the universal national service. From this year onwards, thirteen departments offer young people who wish to experience this experience, which involves a mission of general interest to an association, a community, a public structure or a uniformed body. This universal national service is a great opportunity to promote our republican values and social mix. This is a great opportunity to promote the culture of commitment among our young people. The Youth Experiment Fund, introduced in 2008, aims to finance experimental programmes with the aim of promoting students' academic success, contributing to equal opportunities, improving the sustainable social and vocational integration of young people under 25 years of age. We can only deplore the depletion of the resources available to him: out of the 260 million euros he has received in total, he has only 6.7 million left. It is therefore desirable, as the resolution proposes, that private companies should be encouraged to provide the fund with additional resources. However, tasks of general interest should not be the sole responsibility of public authorities or undertakings. As our colleague Yannick Favennec Becot has often said, many actors – associations or communities – contribute to building a fabric of solidarity, locally or nationally. They contribute in particular to the maintenance of a necessary public service, sometimes even vital in certain territories, particularly in rural or isolated communes. Valuing citizen engagement means helping to maintain this solidarity, ensuring the unity of society and strengthening the links between its citizens. Our group obviously shares the need to value citizen engagement. However, this development must be accompanied by means. Instead, we are witnessing a worsening of the difficulties of the associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u59	A real fall!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u60	The figures show that the amount of donations to associations and foundations fell by an average of 4.2 per cent in 2018, the largest decline in the last 10 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u61	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u62	In addition, in one year, more than 7% of employers' associations have disappeared. Successive majorities have not done enough to encourage associative engagement. However, we could have moved forward with very concrete measures, such as taking into account additional quarters for community leaders when calculating their retirement. To this is added the abolition of aided contracts...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u63	And the parliamentary reserve!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u64	... which has weighed heavily on the hirings of associations and their actions, as well as on those of local and regional authorities. These jobs provided associations and communities with the human resources to carry out their missions in the service of solidarity. They were also involved in the social integration of those who benefited from it. Culture and sport are among the sectors most affected. School-based associations as well. The impact of this abolition was significant: school years had to be staggered due to a lack of staff who benefited from these assisted contracts; the contract of some citizens will not be renewed even though they have received training; associations will no longer be able to open their doors, or only on largely reduced slots. The municipalities, the guarantors of public services and solidarity at the heart of the territories, have also been put in difficulty, in particular with regard to the maintenance of public spaces and policies for children. Yet the desire for commitment is strong in France, and we can only be proud of it. We must promote the values of commitment, service and the general interest, but we must also accompany, encourage and congratulate the citizens who are committed. The culture of commitment must be promoted and developed among all citizens. We must encourage and empower those who want to commit themselves. For all these reasons, the Liberties and Territories Group cannot, of course, oppose this motion for a resolution. For all these reasons, the Liberties and Territories Group can only welcome these provisions and encourage their implementation, while regretting the lack of resources available to the various actors. Efforts must be continued and stepped up, particularly in the light of the difficulties encountered by associations, which were exacerbated by the drastic decline in the number of contracts assisted. Indeed, the commitment must be accompanied by means. Without them, a policy of citizen engagement cannot be sufficiently ambitious. Associative life is the "heart and lungs of our society".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u65	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u66	We are here today to discuss a motion for a resolution whose title already leaves me more than puzzled: to invite the Government to continue and step up its efforts towards an ambitious policy of citizen engagement. That will not surprise you, Secretary of State: I will not support you in pursuing and amplifying your policy, quite the contrary! In politics, you have to have memory – and in this matter, there is not much to look for. It was in August 2017. The Government was lowering considerably the budget allocated to aided contracts, which put in jeopardy many associations: 120,000 aided contracts have been abolished since the beginning of 2018; 25,000 associations have disappeared since September 2017; Between EUR 900 million and EUR 1.3 billion of the state budget for associations has thus disappeared. These associations, however, maintained social ties where the state and public services had deserted. The Government, with its groceries calculations, has perceived these contracts as an expense, an additional cost. The associations concerned were involved in the fields of culture, live entertainment, personal assistance, early childhood. Beyond the figures, they are faces and lives: Myriam who, in mid-September, did not know if she still had a job at the end of the month; Jean, in a wheelchair, who had regained his taste for life by going swimming once a week and who lost this pleasure and leisure because the association had to close; Mehdi, who for several months was unable to access his school library because the contract with the librarian had been completed. It is also these children from the working-class neighbourhoods who have lost 25,000 sports educators. You have forgotten that these aided contracts are mostly socially and ecologically useful contracts. Instead of enduring them, you have removed them. The abolition of that budget was already saying a great deal about the Government's vision of citizen engagement and of all those working for the public interest. But in 2019, we're talking about citizen engagement again! We would be happy for this discussion if the citizen engagement version "The Republic on the move" were not to be reduced to the generalized precarisation and glorification of the market! Do not see any malice in the reminder of the removal of aided contracts! The fate of the associations, whose survival depended on these contracts, is only the exact reflection of the treatment now inflicted on all those who work in the public service. How do you believe when with one hand you intend to value citizen engagement while on the other, you freeze the salaries of public service agents and refuse to upgrade their statutes? Do you think they're not doing enough for the common good? Do you think that our teachers, our firefighters, our nurses, our caregivers alongside patients are excluded from what you call "citizen engagement"? Your definition is narrow, limited to this start-up nation that enthusiasms you while it is the country's narrowest vision that has ever been presented to us. We do not have the same definition of citizen engagement. This text outlines the model of society that you want to impose, the one where all the prerogatives that once belonged to the state are privatized. Where you are the most ambitious, the most careful, the most insightful, it is always to find the plots of the state that can be transferred to the private sector. Your inventiveness in this area has no limit. Your watchword is the commodification of social action. To stabilize the time spent helping others, to make the solidarity grow, to amortize the costs: this is your Holy Trinity! The President's experience in the bank seems to have inspired him, and you with him. Your youth testing fund is proof of this: the aim is to encourage companies to contribute to it in order to relieve the State of its public service tasks. You prefer to trust the Total Foundation to fund and lead educational projects. This allows companies to practice "social" and "green washing" at little cost. This kind of measure further transforms the state into a mere promoter of corporate social and environmental responsibility. Is it because most of you once practiced in the private sector that you have such a concern to refurbish the corporate coat of arms? We already imagine the next stage in the society of your dreams, the one where hospital rooms would be funded by Coca-Cola or schools by Nutella. When you know that Total is one of the most polluting companies on a global scale, you can only wonder about your curious vision of citizen engagement. When you close your eyes to the activities of this company and put it in contact with young people, you show all your contempt: you make young people just fair value for mortifying transnationals who want to redeem themselves a morality. You also disdain them with your proposed revised national universal service downwards. It has only the name: a project with an exorbitant cost – one billion a year – that allows you to invoke "the Republic", "social cohesion", without tackling the root causes of the problem. The 18-year-olds you will send a month to the universal national service to give the illusion of a social brewing will unfortunately have already witnessed inequalities. They will already have suffered from budget cuts in education, in culture and in all our public services, they will have already seen their teachers strike – as today – their dilapidated classes due to the lack of the budget necessary for their renovation, their future hindered by the maneuvers of the Minister of Education. This proposal summarizes your cynicism: you want to put a varnish on a piece of furniture that you have been destroying since the beginning of the quinquennium. We must therefore ask ourselves what you mean by citizen engagement. When the yellow vests leaned on the roundabouts to claim their rights, you preferred to contain the mobilization with baton and "Great National Debate". They invented new forms of mobilization, talked to each other about their daily problems after years of silence. Lasting friendships have developed there. But you were displeased by this citizen engagement. The environmental activists prosecuted by the justice system also greet you. The latter were ordered to pay fines ranging from 1000 to 2000 euros for having obtained portraits of the President in the town halls. Trials are yet to come. What's wrong with them? Denunciation of the emptiness of the Government's environmental policy. Of course, their civic commitment is not in your favor, but it is in the direction of preserving the living and the general human interest. Since the beginning of the mandate, I have lost hope that you will ever hear it. Finally, I cannot talk about citizen engagement without mentioning what happened this weekend. From this rostrum, I would like to warmly greet the trade unionist and postman Gaël Quirante. For 14 months he has been conducting a strike at the Poste des Hauts-de-Seine for the improvement of the working conditions of the factors. He is fighting with the postal service to ensure that this essential public service is guaranteed throughout the country, while already one in two post offices have been closed in twenty years. Gaël Quirante was arrested at 6 a.m. this weekend and placed in police custody for his trade union activities. He was released this afternoon. Tribute be paid to him, to him who wears the colors of social struggle and solidarity! Tribute be paid to him, to him who does not submit himself to the will of those who wish to crush anyone who resists the empire of money, wherever it is! All this shows that there are citizens' commitments that you tolerate less than others. Carry out a sustainable development project funded by Total, so there, yes! Claiming rights and fighting for the public interest, then there, no! In short, you prefer the citizen's commitment "patern" – you will pass the phrase – that which suits you and cannot serve you. There is the commitment that goes in your direction and the one that upsets him. For this one, you do not put small porcelain dishes in the big ones. No: you prefer prolonged police custody, truncheon and repeat trials. The civic commitment that I am defending in this forum is the one that opposes you, which is ruining the Republic. The civic commitment that I want to salute is that of those who, without ever thinking about putting their pockets on, look around them if their fellow citizens are doing well, those who, with violence, oppose the hope of a more just world. As tired as they are, as immense as the task is, no one will cause them to bow down! They will continue, we will continue to oppose you all our reasons to hope for tomorrow! Our humanity is of those forces that no one can take away! The citizen commitment, at this time, is to sign for the referendum on Aéroports de Paris so that you stop taking the national heritage for your particular good. As my colleague Ruffin said, a single watchword at this time for citizen engagement: "Referendum"! I would add a second for the 6th Republic that comes: "Constituent"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u67	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u68	Over the past two years, we have had on several occasions the opportunity to greet the millions of volunteers and volunteers engaged in the service of others and our society. We have always agreed on the importance of the world of associations, active citizenship and gift. But, often, our remarks were accompanied by an alert about the lack of recognition, the difficulties of functioning and the financial fragility of many structures. In fact, the Government never seemed to take measures of urgency. Worse, a number of its decisions, or the absence of decisions, have weakened citizen engagement, particularly within the community. These are volunteers, leaders of associations, who do not count their hours, volunteer firefighters, men and women in civil protection, reservists, tens of thousands of young people in civic service, and many more. They are also the 8,000 rescuers at sea, whose sacrifice we have seen over the last few days. The commitment is made from an early age and, most often, in sports, cultural and charitable associations. The associative world is one of the pillars of our democracy, because of its territorial mesh and the social bond it creates. It consists of 1.3 million structures, 13 million volunteers and almost 1.9 million employees in 163,400 employers' associations. Behind these figures is a social utility which is difficult to quantify but so important, as the associations appear to be a vital link for the cohesion of our country. Moreover, when the state disengages, it most often turns to the world of associations to take over its actions. As a result, associations pay twice the price of the State's accounting policies: on the one hand, they fully assume the role that they no longer want to play and that local and regional authorities can no longer assume, and on the other hand, their financial stability is becoming less and less assured. As I said in the preamble, the Government has never taken note of the issue and has even deteriorated the situation. In July 2017, just two months after Emmanuel Macron came to power, the sharp decline in aided contracts destabilized associative structures. From 459,000 in 2017, their number rose to only 200,000 in 2018. While this arrangement was not always the most suitable for its beneficiaries, it nevertheless allowed associations to compensate for the disengagement of the public authorities. Other measures have had a significant impact on the resources of associations. Thus, the parliamentary reserve allowed about 50 million euros to be allocated to associations active in the constituencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u69	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u70	When the end of this reserve was adopted, only an additional 25 million came to abound, in 2018, the fund for the development of associative life, in order to compensate for this abolition. Finally, the gradual transformation, in recent years, of multi-annual grants into calls for projects distorts the act of association by obliging structures to contort to be eligible for funding; So it has to stop. The associations should be given greater financial visibility so that they develop their own actions without being regarded as mere State providers. The first measure in favour of citizen engagement would therefore be to give associations the means to develop their actions. Furthermore, the motion for a resolution rightly emphasises the complexity of access to the citizen engagement account, whether it be implementation or readability. More generally, incentives for volunteering should be developed and, above all, volunteers should be given time to engage. We also support the rebuilding of the Youth Experiment Fund, in particular by the public authorities, which have for too long been disengaging themselves financially from these issues, incapable of carrying out genuine public policies for the benefit of young people. We will also support proposals to increase the retirements of volunteers for a long time. As far as the value of voluntary engagement is concerned, some mechanisms already exist – I am thinking in particular of the validation of the experience acquired for volunteers or the volunteer's passport, set up by France Bénévolat – but, as the High Council for Associative Life regularly points out, these mechanisms are too unknown. The employment leave, created in the Equality and Citizenship Act, is also a step forward, offering women leaders of associations the opportunity to receive half-days of unpaid leave in order to perform their duties. Nevertheless, we must go further in the articulation between working life and the exercise of voluntary responsibilities. In this respect, the proposal for a law in favour of associative engagement advocated by the MODEM Group, and currently on a shuttle basis, contains interesting avenues which the Communist MPs and Senators and Senators have supported, including the extension of the Employment Impact scheme to the structures of less than 20 employees or the use of deposits on the inactive accounts of the associations. In addition, we wish to deepen the Senate's consideration of the possibility of paying for leave of employment. Our position was the same when we examined the proposal for a law on the treasury of associations, during which we supported securing the notion of a reasonable surplus of subsidies paid to associations. Without own funds, they find themselves in financial precariousness which does not allow them to develop their actions. However, only the Government will be able to drive a truly ambitious policy for engagement, devoting financial resources to it, which was not at all the case in the 2018 and 2019 budgets. That is why we support this inquiry by the Government. We regret, however, that it is not broader and that it leaves aside matters that are essential to reinvigorating citizen engagement. We therefore call on the Government to take action on the issue of multi-year grants instead of calls for projects and the form of voluntary employment. We also want a precise evaluation of the civic service to be carried out. We fully support this mechanism, which enables tens of thousands of young people to become involved, because this experience is often a strong moment for them and is an important part of the personal construction of volunteers. However, the rise in civic service has sometimes led to its deviousness: it is transformed into disguised employment, it fills the difficulties of associations and is in fact a hijacking of the notion of engagement. Finally, our main criticism relates to the reading, in this motion for a resolution, of the future universal national service, which is considered a "great opportunity". The Communist Members are very reserved on this new mechanism, which raises difficulties both in form and substance. The experiment phase of the UNS began yesterday, in thirteen departments, with 2,000 volunteers. We can only share the desire to carry out a strict evaluation of the scheme in this first phase. In the end, this motion for a resolution recognises that there are many pitfalls in the UNS. For example, how will it relate to civic service, which is in full development? How will the structures be able to host a new generation each year for 15 days? Finally, is the mandatory nature of the UNS relevant? On the form and methods of organisation, the question of compensation for local and regional authorities, which incur significant costs, remains unanswered. The departmental councils are already devoting resources to the testing phase of the SNU, without guarantees of a financial return from the State. Finally, youth and sports personnel, who will now be attached to national education, are assigned the task of organizing the UNS when they are already having great difficulty in fulfilling their current tasks. We do not see how they could take on this heavy task without sacrificing their other activities, which are their core business. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI, SOC and LR]] Once again, the National Assembly calls on the Government to renew an ambitious policy for youth and associative life. We must restore the bond of trust between the state, volunteers and volunteers, who bring solidarity to our country. It is only under these conditions that the State will finally be at the level of women and men who engage in the daily service of others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u71	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u72	As you know, the development of associative life is one of the Government's strategies promoted by Secretary of State Gabriel Attal. And for good reason! Our country is rich in its associative fabric: 1.5 million associations, 22 million volunteers, millions of jobs involved. The ambition to forge a true associative culture is reflected in the State's consistent support for the various forms of engagement. The discussion of this motion for a resolution gives us the opportunity to reiterate how commitment is an important lever for social cohesion and the formation of "living together" in terms of culture, sport and citizenship, in rural towns and territories. I greet all those who give their time for others. The Government's associative life strategy is based on three pillars: structural support and strengthened support for associations, the enhancement and recognition of community involvement and community development. In the current landscape, ways exist to attract and encourage volunteerism. For example, since 2008, the Youth Experiment Fund has been funding experimental programmes that promote students' academic success, equal opportunities and the sustainable social and vocational integration of young people under 25 years of age, in order to avoid dropping out of school. The reduction in the resources allocated to this fund, which you are worried about, the rapporteur, requires that we reconsider the way it is fed. The citizen engagement account created by the 2016 "work" law aims to enhance the voluntary engagement of community leaders. It allows for additional rights credited to the vocational training account. Thus, volunteer activities, the performance of civic service, engagement among reservists or volunteer firefighters are valued by the State. However, the system is still little known. More worrying, it seems to be ineffective in attracting diverse profiles of young people into the community world. However, existing tools must reach all young people, especially those who are not aware of associative life. From now on, the universal national service will give the taste of collective life and civic service during three strong moments: a phase of cohesion, a phase of mission of general interest and finally an optional phase of associative engagement. Reinforced under this legislature, the €25 million fund for the development of associative life offers financial support to the most innovative small associations. In 2018, funding for the voluntary sector increased: $67.6 million was spent on the development of associative life, 5.8 million more than in 2017. Madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the MODEM Group, your motion for a resolution calls on the Government to make the citizen engagement report more accessible, to review its funding arrangements, so that private companies can provide new resources to the Youth Experiment Fund, and to learn the best from the UNS experiments. As a follow-up to the proposal for a law on the improvement of the cash flow of associations, the motion for a resolution discussed today enjoys the consent of the majority. There is indeed a need to better involve the private sector in the voluntary sector. The citizen engagement account must be better known. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In the face of inequalities in access to volunteering, actions are expected, so that all young people can seize this opportunity. We agree with your proposal that the ongoing experiments of the UNS give rise to rigorous assessments of their operability. With a view to making commitment a choice for all, our group welcomes the initiative of the MODEM Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u73	Before giving the floor to Mr Maxime Minot, I should like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly has received from the Prime Minister a communication of the decree of the President of the Republic of 17 June 2019 to convene the Parliament in extraordinary session as from 1 July 2019. The agenda for this special session will be published in the Official Journal of 18 June 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u74	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u75	Today we are considering a motion for a resolution calling on the Government to continue and step up its efforts towards an ambitious policy of citizen engagement. On the merits, I can only agree with this call. "Citizen engagement": these words are at the heart of politics, of course, but they also give concrete expression to the relationship that every citizen, whether elected or not, has with the society of which he is a member. One engages in politics, or in associative life, or in his work, because one wants to act, build and, in any case, interact with others. The citizen, political or associative commitment, for one cause, is indispensable in order to make society and thus create, in the Republic, the conditions of respect for the other. While society is increasingly individualistic, never the need to engage has seemed more important and, of course, young people have an immense responsibility to ensure that commitment remains a cement of our society. However, the younger generation must be empowered to commit themselves, encourage initiatives and stimulate ambitions. If young people face multiple difficulties, I would like to stress that they also have every hope for a better society. Indeed, I believe that each of us is fully aware of the importance for young people and, more generally, for all French people, of their commitment to the service of others. For it is precisely this involvement, this will that makes our democracy alive and gives our Republic its strength, necessary for its future. I can only salute all those who make the choice, in the current context of retreat and exacerbated individualism, to go to others by giving their time and energy for a cause that goes beyond them, but that serves us all. If I am thinking, in particular, of these young people who began the universal civic service yesterday, I am also thinking of all those French and all those French who, in our territories, make live the local community fabric, in addition to their professional activities and a family life that is sometimes very full. As has been pointed out, the citizen engagement account and the youth experiment fund, two measures taken by two different majorities – which clearly illustrates the trans-party nature of the subject – are, for our compatriots, tools to enable them to get involved in this process. There is no doubt that we need to go further, especially since the vocation crisis is a reality that many of us see in our respective constituencies. This crisis is of course, and you will forgive the former mayor of Etouy that I am referring to, to put it in parallel with that of the municipal elected representatives, faced with the increasing complexity of the legislation, the dilution of competences, the lack of resources or the increase in the number of legal challenges. Of course, we must make every effort to promote this citizen engagement: the use of private financing here proposed is a good idea not to weigh the entire effort on the taxpayer, much more so after the abolition of the ISF, which has undoubtedly discouraged many private contributors. A proposal for a MODEM law, without dealing with the future of associations in a comprehensive manner, also wanted to answer this question. But, as usual, the parliamentary majority and the Government, who are now committed to this policy, now emblematic of the "at the same time", give on the one hand to take up ever more on the other. Regrettably, it is a sad reality to see the large number of associations that are throwing the sponge away for lack of funding. However, they are essential in order to make our territories live and work for the citizen's commitment, which we all wish for. However, Secretary of State, this situation does not date from your predecessors: it is the result of your policy, which weakens associations month after month. Perhaps by dogmatism or ignorance of the realities on the ground, the majority and associated groups wanted to remove the parliamentary reserve – many speakers reminded me before me that it was providing many services – on the grounds that it was necessary to break with a clientelism of another age. While it may have existed marginally, the vast majority of parliamentarians used the reservation rationally in recent years. Almost two years after the reform establishing the Fund for the Development of Associative Life to compensate for this abolition, the returns of the actors concerned as well as the figures are unappealable. Let us take the concrete example of the Oise. Up to 2017, almost EUR 910000 was distributed to associations through this parliamentary reserve; In 2018, 235,000 euros were distributed, which benefited 120 structures, compared to hundreds of applications. This lack of resources, you know as well as I do, affects the local and therefore national community fabric. At the national level and by projection, it is several million euros less for associations, which, taking into account the needs and the context – end of assisted contracts and unprecedented decline in allocations – is far from negligible. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and MODEM groups]] So, more than declarations of intent, associations, like our compatriots who want to engage on a daily basis, are waiting for concrete actions. That is why the LR Group will continue, as it has always done since the beginning of the legislature, to vote on the bills and bills that go in the right direction. We will therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u76	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u77	When we are elected, we all come here with our life paths, our experiences and our convictions. Many of us were committed citizens before sitting on those benches. So we all know the value of commitment, that is, of this energy and of this time that we devote to others and to a cause that exceeds us, beyond our immediate personal comfort or interest. We all have examples in our lives of the human added value of citizen engagement. When I was a volunteer of a civic service association, I was particularly impressed by young people who presented the action they were taking with elderly people who were isolated or in family breakdown. They made convivial visits with a view to reintegrating them into their neighbourhoods and surroundings. One of these women, aged 87 or 88, at a round table attended by the minister, explained in a sentence, which remained in my memory, what this human added value of citizen engagement, in this case that of our youth, is. She didn't say she thought it was nice to see young people at home every week. No, she said, "I was dead and I'm living again. » During this week of the "Spring of Evaluation", I would like to stress the idea that, beyond human added value, which is the essential part of citizen engagement, we legislators can try to reason in full societal cost and benefit when we evaluate public policies such as that of the public service – an evaluation that you mentioned, ladies and gentlemen. This assessment is a perfect illustration of the motion for a resolution that we are considering today. When 140,000 young people act on a daily basis as part of the public policy of civic service, it is assessed on the basis of what it brings to these young people in terms of guidance and citizenship – the place they take in society. In a very Lolfian approach, the impact of this public policy on young people is checked. I would like to highlight today the existence of a societal impact other than the direct impact of this public policy on youth. A large number of evaluations are beginning to be conducted, which show that young people who, as part of civic service, act on a daily basis with isolated seniors, keeping them at home for one or two more years, reduce the societal and social costs of placing them in EHPAD. So there's a return on investment in the societal action they're doing. Thus, beyond a purely Lolfian reading of level 1, if I may say – the evaluation of the impact of civic service on young people – it is time to take into account, for the evaluation of public policies on citizen engagement, a second order impact, by reason not only of budgetary costs but also of societal investment. Our democracy will have progressed when we recognize that an additional €30 million in civic service will not only have a direct impact on young people, but also on the subjects they deal with, taking into account the results of their action on society. This assessment of full societal cost and benefit, the legislator must succeed in implementing it in a democracy like ours. Sarah El Haïry's motion for a resolution is in line with this logic. The reasoning for budgetary analysis of public policies in the area of citizen engagement probably needs innovation: the one we propose is to move to level 2 of evaluation, i.e. to measure concrete societal investment rather than the only budgetary cost. Citizen engagement has an exceptional transformative power.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u78	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u79	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, LaREM, UDI-I and LR groups]] It makes the world better. It is up to us – it is not a slogan or a premonition – to make it a conviction guiding our action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u80	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u81	Citizen engagement is a heart of our democracy, with some 1.3 million associations active in France. A year ago, almost to the day, the Association Movement submitted a report to the Prime Minister containing fifty-nine proposals. This year, what can we assess? This year, above all, how can we continue and scale up our action in favour of an ambitious policy of citizen engagement? Thanks to our collective work, I am proud today to point out that we are on the right path. Indeed, the Government is acting, first of all by unblocking the money needed for the development of citizen engagement in our country, particularly in the context of the civic service, which has already been mentioned. At the same time, employers' associations are largely supported and assisted, with the reduction of employers' contributions, which will enable them to save EUR 1.4 billion as of this year. The Government was aware, however, that there were also small associations, which did not have the means to employ employees but were vital to the country. They will also benefit from aid, with the allocation of €25 million to the Fund for the Development of Associative Life – FDVA. In short, we act quickly, we act concretely. Speaking of commitment, I would also like to emphasize universal national service: we want young people to take a taste for citizen engagement. This will encourage young people to meet each other, while respecting the values of the Republic. From this year onwards, thirteen departments propose the SNU: I would like to stress here the determination of Secretary of State Gabriel Attal. The motion for a resolution that we are debating today invites us to continue our approach. Indeed, we cannot fall asleep on our laurels, and I thank my colleague Sarah El Haïry for reminding us, particularly with regard to the challenges posed by the universal national service. You are asking, dear colleague, for better conditions for assessing the foresight of the universal national service, in order to generalise the practices aimed at making it a founding moment in the lives of our young fellow citizens. First of all, I would like to point out that, since Gabriel Attal's presentation of the measures in November 2018, various reservations have been lifted, notably during his hearing on 28 May before the Committee on Cultural Affairs. He spoke widely about how the scheme would strengthen national cohesion through strong social mix and common solidarity activities. We will have to wait until the end of the test period, which began yesterday, in order to draw all the conclusions and to improve and, if the need arises, to modify the UNS, with a view, as Emmanuel Macron wished, to generalize it in 2022 and 2023 – that is, tomorrow. And then there are questions about the citizen engagement account. I understand them. How can we deal, for example, with the problems of eligibility of pensioners for this account? How can the problems posed by the unequal accessibility of training be addressed, depending on whether the rights mobilised have been fed through voluntary or paid activities? I strongly believe that these issues are essential, because they refer, more broadly, to the need to better recognize soft skills, these transversal skills, in all certifications. Citizen engagement enables some to be acquired and others to be strengthened. These soft skills are difficult to evaluate, but essential to evolve in life. We must do better, collectively, to recognize these transversal skills acquired through citizen engagement. A slight delay was made in the application of section 39 of the Act of 8 August 2016. However, we will be able to be fully operational by the end of 2019. You invite us to reflect on how private sector companies can bring new resources to the Youth Experiment Fund. In this regard, I would like to extend my remarks to the contribution of private sector companies to the voluntary sector, not only through sponsorship and donations, but also through the sponsorship of skills. I was with Secretary of State Gabriel Attal last January at the Pro Bono Lab in Clichy, in my constituency, a structure that links associations and companies. The Minister has worked on issues of defiance to support the investment of very small businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises – TPE-SMEs – in this form of encouraging citizen engagement. Thus, the ceiling is no longer 5 % of turnover, as for large companies, but 10000 euros dedicated to action of general interest. I believe that we can trust the Government, and in particular Mr. Gabriel Attal and Mr. Taquet, since the commitment can affect the younger years. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, the LaREM Group hears the comments you make. Because we are already committed to encouraging citizen engagement, we believe that this proposal by the MODEM Group is in the right direction. It prompts us to remain vigilant, and we invite you to adopt it. It is part of the ambitious policy of citizen engagement that we are defending.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u82	The general discussion is closed. On the motion for a resolution, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u83	First of all, I would like to apologize to my colleague Gabriel Attal, who is absent for good reasons: he was in the Eure this afternoon and he will be in Bourges tonight for the prefiguration of the universal national service and the launch of the first phase of cohesion. 2000 young people from 13 departments were selected to take part. [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] As a starting point, I, in turn, wish to pay tribute to the millions of volunteers who, every day in our country, give their time and energy, and most of the time engage in the service of others. I share many of the objectives you mentioned. In the context of the'spring of evaluation', allow me, not to make an ode to citizen engagement, as you have done with a certain skill, but rather to provide a number of specific answers to the various questions that this motion for a resolution raises. In the explanatory memorandum to your motion for a resolution calling on the Government to continue and step up its efforts towards an ambitious policy of citizen engagement, you stress, Madam rapporteur, the delay in the implementation of the citizen engagement account created by Article 39 of the Law of 8 August 2016 on labour, the modernisation of social dialogue and the securing of professional paths. You consider this to be a somewhat too restrictive administrative procedure: it is managed by the central administrations concerned and by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, which manages it operationally. You also regret the weakness of the communication on this yet innovative system. The Government shares your view of the citizen engagement account as a lever for the recognition of commitment. In his action plan for an ambitious policy of associative life, of which I obviously share the objective, Gabriel Attal has thus chosen the measure to open the citizen engagement account to all volunteers assuming supervisory responsibilities and taking an active part in the life of their association. The citizen engagement account is part of the personal activity account and the personal training account, and has been amended three times to extend the categories of beneficiaries. It should therefore be noted that, because of the conditions for the duration of the activities provided for in Article D. 5151-14 of the Labour Code and eligible from 2017, only a few activities could be declared in 2018. As a result, 2019 is the first year in which activities carried out in 2017, declared in 2018, can result in the registration of rights acquired under the citizen engagement account and entered in the personal training account. They can then be mobilised to attend training courses. In addition, as you point out, the law of 5 September 2018 on the freedom to choose one's professional future has transformed the initial measure of training rights recorded in hours into fees recorded in euros. The development of a specific information system, adapted to the information systems specific to each of the many eligible audiences, was thus necessary for the deployment of the citizen engagement account. Today, the backlog of accounts is in the process of being recovered over the next nine months. Posting of 2017 acquired rights will take place on the personal training accounts at the end of the summer. The 2018 rights display will be effective at the end of the year, and the 2019 rights display will be effective at the beginning of 2020, as foreseen in the Labour Code. At the beginning of 2020, it will be absolutely all rights for all audiences, and under rights 2017, 2018 and 2019, that will be posted on the incumbents' meters. Finally, the accessibility of rights will be exactly the same for employees and for volunteers. The posting of their rights will be concurrent, and their mobilization will take place on the same catalogue of trainings made available by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations and directly accessible by the account holder. Eligible training will be the same. For volunteers and volunteers, there is also the training they can access as part of their civic mission, which will also be available on the same CDC portal from the beginning of 2020. With regard to the Youth Experiment Fund, Madam rapporteur, you are concerned about its sustainability and abundance in 2020. The Youth Experiment Fund celebrated its 10th anniversary in December 2018. This anniversary was an opportunity to take stock of its activity, and to draw leads for the future. Indeed, after ten years of existence, the Youth Experimental Fund has a considerable record, first of all by the number of projects supported and accompanied – almost a thousand – but also by the productions aimed at capitalising on the teachings, making them known and sharing them. Beyond the figures, this fund has been able to contribute to the development of the culture of experimentation and evaluation among the actors working with young people in this country. Its position at the National Institute of Youth and People's Education in 2016 has considerably strengthened its innovation laboratory dimension in the service of public policy. Encouragement, support and evaluation of initiatives that come from professionals on the ground to serve public youth policies is, in fact, part of the work of the EJF, which stimulates innovative initiatives, tests them through experimentation, and draws lessons from them through evaluation. The EYF has thus made it possible to provide useful elements for public action, in order to better respond to the difficulties faced by young people, to combat the inequalities which weigh on their journeys, to enable the actors in youth policies – be it associations, local authorities, public institutions, especially schools – to have the opportunity to innovate, to test, to fail, to reorient themselves, to make their actions continue on the basis of the results of the evaluation. But we agree that we need to go further. The Youth Experiment Fund is currently continuing its efforts to promote innovation in youth policies. A call for projects on preventing and combating discrimination against young people was launched a few months ago, and projects have just begun on the ground. Two more calls for projects are planned in the summer of 2019, specifically targeting young people living in rural areas, on the one hand, and ultramarine young people, on the other. The Youth Experiment Fund will also be mobilised for the implementation of the experiments under the Poverty Plan, in conjunction with Olivier Noblecourt, the interministerial delegate for the prevention and fight against poverty of children and young people, under the auspices of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. Finally, we are currently considering how the Youth Experiment Fund can continue its work, while the funds available for new projects are now very limited. A path of re-abundance, through the investment programme for the future 3, is being studied. It would make it possible to launch new experiments, for example on questions of mobility, combating inequalities or commitment. Finally, the rapporteur, with regard to the pre-figuration phase of the universal national service, which my colleague Gabriel Attal launched yesterday and today, together with Minister Jean-Michel Blanquer, you are wondering about his assessment and some aspects such as the possibility for young volunteers to follow a module on the road code. In the explanatory memorandum, you also wonder about the mandatory nature of the UNS, in the long run, so that the whole age group can carry out its cohesion stay and its mission of general interest. I will answer you on these few points, but first of all it is important that I refer to the issues and context of the UNS, even if I imagine that most Members are fully familiar with it. As you know, from June 16 to 28 is the prefiguration phase of the universal national service. Today took place the first opening ceremony, symbolized by the raising of colors. This step is a fundamental element of the education matrix, which is the cornerstone of the Government's policy towards a commitment society. For this first year, I repeat, 2000 young volunteers between the ages of 15 and 16 have been selected, out of 4000 applications. This number of applications confirms the real success of the mobilisation, indicating that the SNU does indeed respond to a particular expectation of young people and their families, in search of a republican moment of commitment and cohesion. These 2000 young volunteers from different backgrounds and representative of French youth are expected to live two weeks in a collective accommodation centre, in one of the thirteen pilot departments, which range from Ardennes to Puy-de-Dôme, passing through the North, Morbihan, Guyana or Val d'Oise. During these 12 days, these young people will benefit from personal health check-ups, assessment of the mastery of the French language, and skills check-ups, particularly in the digital field. The results of these reviews may give rise to remedial measures for their benefit. The proposed activities are systematically collective and participatory, and they focus on learning through practice to distinguish themselves from school time. They will be organized on seven themes identified as priorities during the youth consultation: national defence, security and resilience; citizenship and national and European institutions; autonomy, knowledge of public services and access to rights; sustainable development and environmental transition; physical, sporting and cohesion activities; culture and heritage; discovery of commitment. Once the cohesion phase is completed, young volunteers will then be able to carry out their mission of general interest in an association, a community, or within a uniformed body. If, today, these first two phases of the SNU take place on a voluntary basis in the thirteen pilot departments, they will take place in 2020 in all French departments, always on a voluntary basis. In the long run, it will be essential to provide, Madam rapporteur, a legal basis for establishing an obligation to follow these first two phases of the UNS, so that the whole age group can make its UNS, in accordance with the objective set by the President of the Republic. Constitutional reform is an envisaged lever, as is the law which now sets out the specific provisions of the Defence and Citizenship Day, or the obligation to train. An inter-ministerial working group was launched on the subject to develop the most appropriate legal solution for the UNS. One thing is certain: who says obligation, also says rights and duties. Like Defence and Citizenship Day, today we can easily imagine the UNS as a mandatory passage before any public service competition. Starting this year, young volunteers will have training in road safety and risk perception, as well as access to an e-learning platform to learn road code. Finally, at the end of their phase 2, their mission of general interest, they will benefit from a free passage for the road code. Finally, and this answers your questions about the evaluation of the programme, a team of scientists has, for several weeks already, embarked on the programme and is working to propose an evaluation of the device on the basis of the first phase. This study was piloted by the National Institute of Youth and People's Education – INJEP. The work will be presented to all partners in the fall. In addition, a National Orientation Council of the UNS will soon be set up within the Youth Policy Guidance Council, the COJ, to guide the work on the universal national service. In conclusion, the citizen engagement account will have its full effect at the beginning of 2020, the youth testing fund continues to intervene on the morning of its ten years by putting innovation at its heart and will, in the future, be the basis of experiments on new subjects, and the universal national service is a crucial and decisive step for generations – I am convinced that there will be "SNU generations" – who will be able to develop their commitment and commitment to our Republic and its values. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is the three pillars of our ambition for citizen engagement. Be convinced that we support your motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u84	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u85	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 30 Number of votes cast 27 Absolute majority 14 For adoption 27 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-17-O1276.u86	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Discussion of the motion for a resolution to put the general interest at the heart of the public service; Discussion of the motion for a resolution to make the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion the top national priority 2020. The meeting is adjourned.
