ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u1	The next item is the questions on the implementation of the Agriculture and Food Act of 30 October 2018. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set a maximum of two minutes for each question and each answer, without the right to reply. We begin with the questions of the IDU, Action and Independent Group. Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u2	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, since we are evaluating the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and for a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet for all, I will return to one of its emblematic devices, applicable since February 1st: raising the threshold of resale at a loss. It does not escape anyone – neither the consumer citizens nor the farmers, nor the parliamentarians, nor even the Minister of Agriculture – that after the price war that has been waged for many years by the large distribution and purchasing centres, we are now witnessing a communication war. The UDI group, Agir et indépendants had in its time alerted Mr Stéphane Travert, your predecessor, Mr.Minister, about the risk that the increase in the threshold for resale at a loss, voted by Parliament, would increase consumer prices. Initially, the 10 % increase in the loss resale threshold was intended to provide some flexibility to allow for better remuneration for farmers and a better distribution of value added between distributors, industrialists and farmers. [[Mr. Loïc Prud-homme applauds]] For the past fifty years, in our country, large-scale distribution and purchasing centres have been the law, since they almost have a monopoly on the distribution of food to the general public. After large distribution has been granted facilities for payment deadlines, volumes and rear margins, we need to monitor very closely the application of the loss resale threshold. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LR and MODEM groups, as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] Our group will also propose the creation of a committee of inquiry in order to know the precise role of purchasing centres and large-scale distribution in commercial relations in France and Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u3	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u4	Mr M.P., dear Thierry Benoit, thank you and your group for choosing this important theme to begin our question-and-answer session. The general states of agriculture – EGA – in which you participated were a great moment: eighteen months ago, a great national debate, in which everyone was able to participate, was held on food and agriculture. It was a first. Let us recall its essential objectives: to improve the quality of food in France, to enable farmers to live not by subsidies but by their work, and to rebalance the relationship between distribution and production, between upstream and downstream, in order to better distribute added value. Several actions have been implemented. We'll get back to it. In the past, I welcome the initiative you have taken in calling for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. It is very important to observe how things are going. France has some 450,000 farms, 5000 businesses and only four purchasing centres. In such an unbalanced situation, farmers find themselves tied, gagged, sometimes even strangled. One of the reasons some of them commit suicide – there is a farmer's suicide every two days – is that they do not live from their work and that they are always pointed at. That is why I believe that your committee of inquiry is essential. The EGalim law, which you have voted for, like the vast majority of parliamentarians, simply aims at rebalancing relations: through producer organisations, price indicators will be put in place and it will no longer be possible to buy from a producer of milk, meat or cereals products that are cheaper than their cost price, a practice that we consider unacceptable. This is the spirit of the law, section 1 of which sets the threshold for resale at a loss – RPS. It is thanks to this provision that we are going to move things. We are in the year I of new trade relations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u5	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u6	Minister, section 11 of the Egalim Act has validated the principle of an order to advance the status of agricultural cooperatives. During the parliamentary discussions, your predecessor assured the national representation that parliamentarians would be involved in the consultation that took place prior to the drafting of the order, which seems not to have been the case. The representatives of the cooperatives alerted us. They feel that they were not heard during this consultation and are concerned about some of the elements of the order presented a few days ago. They believe that it challenges the current cooperative model by making agricultural cooperatives a common commercial economic operator, without taking into account the specificities of the agricultural environment you know. It is to forget the attachment of farmers to their co-operatives that they consider to be an extension of their operations. It is also to forget that, thanks to their cooperative, they will find an outlet for their production. However, the breakdown of the balance in the relationship between the co-operator partner and its co-operative will be inevitable if the notion of unfairly low selling price is attached to the cooperative contribution contract or if the co-operative mediator is divested to the benefit of the trade relations mediator. In addition, the consultations conducted for the drafting of the Ordinance on plant protection products confirmed your wish to persist in the separation of the advisory and sales activities of these products, a provision which is incompatible with the plant protection products savings certificate scheme set up in 2016. Minister, I would like to ask you to reassure our farmers by taking into account their observations and by involving all stakeholders in the consultations on the drafting of orders. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] I'll ask you two questions. Can you give us your vision of the French agricultural cooperative model of tomorrow? On the other hand, why refuse to introduce a separation for distributors of plant protection products between the organisation of an annual or multi-annual strategic board and the billing of other boards, which would be a good solution?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u7	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u8	Thank you, Madam Member, for your question, which will allow me to repeat certain essential points, and perhaps to remove the doubts felt by the cooperatives or by yourself. The orders were drafted in consultation with the professional world, although I am not sure that as a Member of Parliament you have been involved, or sufficiently associated, with this work. In this respect, I am ready to take my culpability to parliamentarians. I had the opportunity to tell them when they auditioned me. Today, through the bill that you voted for, the Government wants to say two simple things. On the one hand, cooperation is an opportunity for our country. The cooperative model is truly remarkable. As such, the Government and I are both advocates and promoters. Without the cooperative model, which has made its strength, France may have 30 000, 40 000 or 50 000, or even 60 000 fewer farms. Agriculture is the only sector in which the cooperative partner, both owner and manager, contributes 100% of its production. The contracts are annual. We want to defend and promote this model. I'm going to do something about it. On the other hand, excluding cooperation from the order on unfairly low selling prices would deprive three-quarters of French farmers of a measure which constitutes the cornerstone of the EGalim law, which we believe is impossible. However, in the order, we can provide for a specific aspect of cooperation, so that this sector does not fall into question. The relationship between the cooperative partner and the cooperative must remain as strong as ever. I would add that there is co-operative and co-operative. Some have sales in excess of EUR 1 billion, even up to EUR 5 billion, while others are very small. But both play the same role. I'll come back.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u9	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u10	Minister, despite their acknowledged agronomic and environmental interest, as well as their low cost to the final consumer, the EGalim Act has significantly restricted the possibilities of upgrading sewage sludge, including its application. This text has removed product status from standard composts and sewage sludge digestates. Thus reduced to waste status and although standardized, these composts or digestats will require a regulated application, on the same regime as raw sludge, regardless of their improved quality. In addition to deconsolidating sludge products, this provision already affects the entire industry. Is it possible for the regulations to exercise more discernment in order to allow sludge or its unloaded mixtures of heavy metals to become waste? Similarly, in view of future legislative developments, all stakeholders stress the need to preserve the possibility of mixing sludge or its digestates with other organic products, in order to preserve the long-term viability of the composting and methanization process. With regard to methanisation on agricultural holdings, it is accepted that the use of cereals to feed these facilities should be banned. On the other hand, farmers in my constituency in Alsace would like to develop the culture of sylphi. This perennial plant, which supplies methanizers, has many advantages, especially in sensitive areas such as catchment areas: low input consumption, permanent soil cover, high mellifer production. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Is it possible to recognise it in the context of areas of ecological interest, as is the practice in other European countries? How do you intend to respond to this request?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u11	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u12	Member of Parliament, dear Antoine Herth, I know your commitment to these issues. As soon as I took up my ministerial duties, I looked with my services at whether we could adopt a new doctrine on methanization and whether it was possible to move this issue forward. This is an important subject. One can only accept in France, it is necessary to wait two to five years to install a methanizer – taking into account the remedies of the residents – while the same procedure only requires in Germany six to eight months. Without denying that we must also consider other aspects, such as the cost of methanisation or the method of injection into heat networks, I would like to set up, in the coming weeks, if not a working group, at least a reflection on the methanization of tomorrow. More specifically, you ask me why the Egalim law has maintained the status of waste for sludge from sewage treatment plants. Let us not forget that, overall, these sludges can be contaminated and present a risk of contamination of soil and agricultural production. However, I want an assessment on a case-by-case basis, as risk does not exist everywhere. France must be mobile. She must be able to look and evaluate. This is the only way forward. We cannot adopt an intangible national doctrine, which would leave no room for evaluation. As you know, removing waste from sludge from sewage treatment plants would be contrary to national law. The Environmental Code prohibits the mixing of bio-waste with other wastes that have not been the subject of the same sorting. That's the law. We cannot go any further, especially since the EGalim law aims to produce a healthy, safe and sustainable diet. With regard to the supply of methanizers, the 2016 decree limits the use of main energy and food crops to 15%. We will discuss this again, because it is difficult to have a precise exchange on such a subject in two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u13	...that's sharp!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u14	I am sorry, Minister, but this debate is being held. Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u15	Minister, although this is not directly related to Bill EGalim, I would like to ask you about an extremely important issue, namely, the allocation to young farmers. To benefit from this, interested parties must file a file with the departmental directorate of the territories. It must be accompanied by a farm development plan – EDP – to be implemented over a four-year period, as well as a commitment to earn a certain income for three years and to meet various environmental, hygiene and animal welfare standards. I understand the legitimacy of the last three criteria. However, the checks carried out by the departmental directorates of the territories sometimes lead to the finding that the commitment made to obtain agricultural income at SMIC level in exchange for the aid received has not been respected. In this case, the Rural Code allows the total or partial withdrawal of the aid. This is a double penalty and, moreover, an inconsistency: on the one hand, the farmer receives a lower income than a SMIC, and on the other hand, he has to repay the aid he has received. Installation aid is essential for the company's cash flow and projects. But the agricultural crisis continues to plague and the aid received by farmers, at the beginning of their establishment, worsens the problems of their farm when they have to repay them. When young farmers fail to comply with their BDPs, it is in no way their intention to evade the commitments they have made. How do you justify, minister, that people who, every day, get up early, who work hard every day, and whose only mistake was to earn less than they had expected, should be severely penalized? Why would farmers whose income remains below SMIC not be helped? [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] In addition, Minister, it would be necessary for the monitoring criteria to be provided at the same time as the eligibility criteria and this at national level. Controls should be carried out less than two years after the end of the EDP, and should also be harmonised at national level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u16	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u17	The transmission of farms and the installation of young farmers is an essential issue for French agriculture. There is currently a problem with land: perhaps a question will be asked on the subject. You know, and I will come back to that, the doctrine that I have tried to introduce in terms of transmission. Fostering the settlement of young people is essential. We work a lot with Jérémy Decerle, President of the Young Farmers, an organization that does a remarkable job. They have the keys to the installation and the transmission in hand. You are talking about a very specific subject today. This year, I have issued instructions so that the newly established farmers are not penalized, especially since some have been able to see their income affected by the drought and others, those with the farm is in organic form, are still waiting for the payment of the specific aid – I am not going to dwell on this last point, you know what I'm talking about. We deal with situations on a case-by-case basis. If you know of a case, let me know and I'll deal with it personally.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u19	The minister wets the shirt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u20	To encourage the establishment of young farmers, the least we can do is not discourage them. We must all be pragmatic. Because I hope that there will be facilities, we will launch, at the Agriculture Fair, a major communication campaign on agriculture trades and agricultural training. We have 800 agricultural training establishments in our country: they are nuggets, jewels, present throughout the country. We want to train more, because when we leave these institutions, young people find work. We want to train better, because the two transitions, agroecological, and health are indispensable. We want to train everywhere, because territorial equity is essential. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] So, honourable Member, I fully agree with your comments. There is no question of cutting the legs of young farmers, because they simply have not raised enough income. We'll see to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u21	You're a good listener! The minister's handling the case! We'll let the DDT know.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u22	We come to the questions of the Group of the European People's Party. Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u23	Since the beginning of the legislature, and in particular with this EGalim law, you have shown a lot of good intentions. But we know that good intentions are not enough to move the lines. In order to fulfil, in particular, the objectives of removing pesticides that pollute our soil and harm our health, it is not a question of replacing a molecule with a new molecule, whose effects it could have in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u24	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u25	There is an urgent need to change the model, to change the agricultural paradigm. To do this, our farmers must have control over their seeds, and this too, to preserve genetic heritage and genetic variability, which allows plants to adapt to the changes that are taking place, in particular to resist the pest insects of crops. Article 78 of the EGalim Act authorized the sale of free or peasant seeds, whereas it was only possible to give them so far. Many farmers' and environmental organisations have welcomed this provision. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Council has censored this article. So far reserved for large seed groups, the sale would have been allowed to associations such as Kokopelli or the Peasant Seed Network. The seed giants were going to lose their hegemony on this huge, lucrative market. We finally came back to the possibility of multinationals filing patents on life. Given the situation in our agriculture, but also the need for change, this is not acceptable. I'm asking you, how did we get there? Is this the consequence of the Government's slightness in the drafting of article 78? Is it the pressure exerted on the ministry by lobbyists seeking to serve their interests? But the important question is: what do you intend to do to remedy this mistake, so that farmers will again be guaranteed the essential right to dispose of seeds, a right essential also for the preservation of biodiversity and genetic diversity?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u26	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u27	Mr Prud'homme, your question is very important and I thank you for that. I will try to answer you very clearly. I understand what you're saying, I've made the department of which I was president, the first organic department of France, the first GMO-free department, the first department for short circuits, the first department for peasant agriculture, the first department for processing. However, I do not oppose agriculture. We need large-scale agriculture, which produces and exports, but also small-scale agriculture. Agroecological transition is essential. I put it back at the heart of the agricultural project. I agree with you: there is no question of replacing one molecule with another. If leaving glyphosate was replacing it with another chemical molecule, we would have missed our goal. It is therefore not in this direction that we must go. At the same time, as the President of the Republic said from the outset, I reaffirm here in the National Assembly that we will leave no sector, no farmer without a solution. So, senator, I was very supportive of section 78 of the EGalim Act. It was with regret that I found that the Senate right had filed an appeal with the Constitutional Council against this text, which led to the invalidation of this article, as did others. I hope that, as part of a parliamentary niche or a future niche, perhaps on the occasion of the 2020 Finance Bill, we can put this issue back on the agenda. This is indeed an important issue, to which the majority, like you, are very attached. There are few subjects on which we could, as on this one, reach unanimity. I urge all of you in this House to relaunch this dynamic. The Government would be in favour of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u28	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to put the second question from his group, which was to be put by Mrs Panot.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u29	I should like to apologize to our colleague, who has been delayed. This is the time for yellow vests, Minister. Everywhere in the country, the French of the middle and popular classes tell you: stop! That's enough! We can't anymore! They tell you that their work is not paid enough, that the tax is not fair, that they can't close the end of the month. But there's nothing to do with it. You continue to be deaf ears; you continue to follow your path, looking at your feet, a little shameful, but sure of the direction you take. Yet this direction is not the right one for the country and causes many of our fellow citizens to suffer. New example of the disastrous effects of your policy on living conditions: this Egalim law, which we are talking about this morning. We warned you, but you didn't want to hear anything. As the loss resale threshold was raised, feed prices increased by an average of 6% on February 1, 2019. Measures to increase wages, starting with that of the SMIC, and mechanically, of all indexed wages, must be decided in order to cope with this reality. No doubt, the magical thought of the President of the Republic had struck you! Distributors, without any constraint, would reduce their margins, rather than pass the increase on to consumers. A little like the owners had been called by the presidential Word to lower rents, when you were reducing APLs! In the short term, your law has two unfair consequences. On the one hand, the popular and middle classes, already struggling, will have to pay more to eat or even to eat less. On the other hand, the peasants will not touch anything more than before. The minister must set a floor price below which farmers cannot sell and cap the indecent margins of large-scale distribution. The shareholders of the groups Auchan or Carrefour, Mulliez and others Arnault, thank you! Let us remember, however, that out of 1 euro of food value, only 7.5 cents go to the peasants, one third of whom earn less than 350 euros per month. Your Egalim law does not change this huge problem. To encourage short circuits, to relocate production, to develop organic farming, without pesticides, and to pay more for our farmers: the solutions are within reach. When do you intend to act to put clear constraints in the law, rather than to defend the cartels of large distribution and their shareholders?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u30	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u31	Your question is all nuanced... At the same time, it deals with very specific subjects. I'll answer you. For my part, I do not oppose, like you, poor workers and poor farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u32	We're talking about Carrefour!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u33	This law is made precisely so that poor farmers become less poor. Salads should not be told, especially about food products sold on a large surface. The notion of unfairly low selling price that we have built is about exactly what you are asking for. You call this "floor price," because you advocate an administered economy. As for us, we live in reality, and we know that there is no administered economy. I repeat that the order for unfairly low prices corresponds exactly to what you want. The aim is that farmers are no longer paid for their products below their cost, but at the right price.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u34	That's not the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u35	You're right, Mr. Prud'homme. This is not the case today. Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u36	Because of the behaviors of the big distribution!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u37	The measure took effect only on February 1st and we are only on February 7th! Don't look in the mirror, but in front of you! Second, I fight the big distribution, sometimes with it, sometimes against it. I am fighting with her, when she allows us to destock the fruits or other agricultural products whose refrigerators overflow and because she is, in fact, the only one able to support our farmers. I fight against her, however, when she only communicates, as when she claims that the order increases the price of Ricard, chips, Nutella or Coca Cola. [[Mr. Loïc Prud-homme smiles]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] What matters to me is not that, but agricultural prices and good practices. We are in the year I of new business practices. Mr Prud'homme, this law is being implemented. Instead of smiling, go see the farmers, go see the cooperatives that signed the first contracts: they won't tell you the same thing! While it was 39 cents, the litre of milk was paid 30 cents to the producers, to be no less resold 1 euro in large area. That was unacceptable. But that was before. From February 1st, it's something else.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u38	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u39	Minister, I will recall the words spoken by the President of the Republic in Rungis on 11 October 2017, referring to "the establishment of a renewed contract with a contract that would be proposed by farmers rather than buyers [...] to reverse this construction of the price that must be able to start from the production costs". The EGalim law, passed on October 2, 2018, was supposed to allow producers to start production costs. In the end, however, the law did not select any public tools for indicators of production costs. It did not introduce any binding means of pressure on distributors and processors, which would have ensured a higher return of value added to producers. What is the finding today? Has the law of the jungle emerged in the ongoing trade negotiations until February 28, 2019 between agri-food companies and large area purchasing centres on the prices they will collect for products referenced in stores within the next 12 months? I will take the example of the beef industry. The indicators of production costs are validated only by producers and distributors, with forbearance from the main industrial, private or cooperative groups. Under these conditions, the industrialists may agree to contract on a part of the volumes, but only on one part, making the device less operational. In addition, fodder, since the beginning of autumn 2018, has led to decapitalisation, and hence to a fall in prices, as supply exceeds demand in a sustainable manner. I would add that, bulimiques, out-of-home and corporate catering, like the manufacturers of processed industrial dishes, increasingly favour imported meat – to the exceptional qualities, as we have just seen in recent days! Moreover, the prospect is that of the conclusion of multiple free trade agreements. Minister, can you tell us – and, please, "out of the Coué method" – about an initial evaluation of the effectiveness of buying prices to producers of the implementation of the first articles of the law in favour of a fairer contract?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u40	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u41	Mr President Chassaigne, I would like to point out that the will, both of the President of the Republic and of the general states of food, in which you have all participated and which have been a great success, is to put an end to what has been practiced for decades and to completely reverse the construction of prices. Indeed, those who get strangled in the negotiations are always the same. It wasn't possible anymore. Hence the title I of the EGalim law, which reverses the construction of agricultural prices. A carpenter who manufactures this bench of minister or commission at a cost of 100 would sell it 110, but a milk producer whose cost is 39 cents per litre sells it 30 cents and a beef producer sells only 3.50 euros per kilo a production that cost him 5 euros. That's not possible! Changing this situation is at stake in this law. I cannot take stock of a law that came into force only seven days ago, but I have met all the industrialists and the bosses of the large distribution and have not hesitated to put pressure on them. Next week, together with Bruno Le Maire, we meet the Trade Negotiations Follow-up Committee. The Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – DGCCRF – has been instructed to track prices and breaches of the law. I will ask the Trade Relations Ombudsman to look into this matter. The Government was fully mobilized to enable farmers to live from their work and to increase their income. Will this go far enough from the first year? I hope so, but probably not. We will move forward walk after walk. I am very pleased with the agreement reached last Thursday in the interprofession of cattle and meat, Interbev, since the beef sector is late – but better late than never! – managed to fix a cost of production; the industrialist, as you said, abstained, which is normal: we have to force the whole chain, everyone, from upstream to downstream, to make efforts. The purpose of this law is to make an effort to ensure that the reversal of price construction results in a better income for farmers. CQFD. It's not the language of wood, it's the reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u42	It's kind of the Coué method!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u43	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u44	My second question concerns the conditions for achieving the renewed goals of sustainable and quality food, which were part of the second part of the law. Articles 24 and 25, in particular, have resumed commitments, which have already been formulated many times since the Grenelle de l'Environnement laws, in favour of the development of organic farming, which you are well aware of. But producers who have made, or are making, the choice of organic farming are still faced with delays in the payment of their specific aid for the campaigns of 2016, 2017 and 2018. In concrete terms, while demand for these products is large and continues to grow, producers and producers are now in difficulty because they have not obtained the balance of the aid they had to receive in the last few years. I would add that these delays in payment, which are unbearable to the operators concerned, are combined with the reduction in the amounts of these aids and the abolition of the maintenance aid. This situation is further aggravated by the recent price war imposed by large and medium-sized areas on organic food companies. This price war is all the more damaging as the developing sector lacks domestic products. While a real conversion dynamic, initiated in recent years in the territories, is finally reflected in a significant increase in the useful agricultural area – UAA – in organic agriculture at national level, the representatives of the farmers of this agriculture have expressed to me their great concern regarding the prospects of a drastic decline in state support for the animation and monitoring of projects in the territories for 2020. [[MM. Hubert Wulfranc and Dominique Potier applaud]] So, Mr Minister, on this specific point of organic farming, which I know is of particular interest to you, what commitments do you intend to make in order to deploy real support measures in the face of legislative commitments in the coming years?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u45	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u46	The aim of the general states of food and the EGalim law was to promote a healthy, sustainable and quality diet. We're going in that direction. First of all, France has a specificity that everyone envys us: our diet is secure and traced – we have seen it again recently with the problem of damaged Polish meat, settled in less than three days, which is not necessarily the case in other countries. Yes, the price war is a real subject, on which the Government – my colleague from Bercy and myself – exercises full vigilance. We're going to stop this price war. The operators of other countries tell me that there is only one negotiation in France that opens with a deflation; elsewhere, efforts are being made to move the sector forward from market level to market level. At home, we start from the deflation of large areas, then the agri-food industries and SMEs increase their effort by a certain amount: what does that mean? We're not playing the hat! We will move forward on this. You asked several questions about bio. The UAS is increasing significantly, which we are pleased to see: we will continue this effort. The "Ambition bio 2022" plan, put in place by this government and voted by this majority, will bring 1.1 billion euros: no such fresh money had ever been released! Operators must be given the means to reach 50% of official quality and origin signs – SIQO – in collective restoration, of which 20% are organic products; That is why I asked the services to grant two additional posts to the Agence française pour le développement et la promotion de l'agriculture bio, known as Agence bio, for the animation – this one does not fall down: you all asked for it, and these posts were created at the beginning of this year. All this is moving forward. As I have already said here, I would like to apologize to the State and the Service and Payment Agency – ASP – which have been failing. I can't tell you anything else. I totally prohibited the administration from creating the slightest problem for a young person who hasn't touched his bio aids in two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u47	What about the banks?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u48	[[Ms. Cendra Motin applauds]] If we have to intervene with the banks, we will. We need to look at every personal case. We are going in this direction, Mr. President Chassaigne!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u49	We come to the questions of the Freedom and Territory Group. Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u50	During the debate on Bill EGalim, many of us drew the attention of the Government, including your predecessor, to the modalities of negotiating and pricing, for certain sectors and products. The issue of indicators has been of great concern to us during these discussions, as the drafting of the text seemed insufficient to achieve one of the major objectives of the general states of food. Indeed, the fair remuneration of agricultural production was to be one of the flagship measures of the EGalim law, which aroused much expectation and hope in the agricultural world. Today, as you mentioned, we are seeing an increase in the prices of certain products that consumers want. In the current context, while rural life faces many difficulties – I am not going to tell you – and may sometimes feel forgotten about public policies, it is up to you, Minister, to ensure that the provisions voted by Parliament are properly implemented. At a time when the issues of purchasing power and the fair remuneration of producers are particularly acute, farmers need the support of the state and their minister. Even if specific agreements have been reached and even if the entry into force of the law is recent, what follow-up arrangements do you intend to put in place to ensure that the voted arrangements are properly implemented and that trade negotiations are conducted at best? Are you prepared to correct the legislation if it proves to be insufficient to achieve this objective, which brings us all together?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u52	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u53	Thank you for your question, honourable Member, because you are the first one this morning to talk about the balance between consumer purchasing power and the fair remuneration of farmers. That's all you wanted, ladies and gentlemen! I am all the more comfortable to say that I was not a minister and that I did not participate in the general states of food: I am absolutely not responsible for it, but I fully support this law, because you have drafted an essential text, Mr.Jean-Baptiste Moreau, who was the rapporteur of the bill? We do not oppose the consumer to the farmer, because we want to mention both the purchasing power and the fair remuneration of farmers. You, like President Chassaigne and Mr Prud'homme before you, refer to the increase in prices: I cannot let that be said! Prices of 4 to 5% of the products of the large distribution have increased: they are call products – an aperitif brand and another of spread paste, among other things – for which all the large and medium areas competed violently; But, the average food basket does not increase, quite the contrary. The aim of this law is to ensure that large areas rebalance their margins. Large groups may earn millions of dollars, but each store does not earn so much money, as the annual margin rate does not exceed 1%. It is necessary to rebalance the margins, in order to achieve the fair remuneration of the farmer but also of the cashier or cashier, who need a good level of salary in order to have purchasing power. It is in any case wrong to claim that the basket will increase, even if it can do so, I am told, from 70 cents to 1 euro depending on what we buy. I want to tell the French and French to look at what they eat: we have a nice diet, our agricultural products are of high quality. We have to buy them! Finally, DGCCRF undertook to carry out 6000 checks during the year; She will, and I met with her director, who told me that 240 operations had already been carried out since the beginning of the year and when the law was enforced. "Trust me," I was going to say, but we must never pronounce this sentence in politics; In any case, be assured that I will closely monitor the application of this law and price control!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u54	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u55	In essence, the structure of the final price must be based on the cost of production, which obviously includes all intermediate costs: this is the sine qua non for the fair remuneration of farmers. In any event, making price monitoring indicators public during inter-branch negotiations would be a positive element for price transparency and, above all, for the allocation of margins. This law must be an opportunity to define clear goals in the field of health. We should act, as everyone knows, on the levels of sugar, salt and fat, provide for more explicit labelling, promote bio and ensure the added value of the labels of controlled label of origin – AOC –, of protected geographical indication – IGP – and of protected designation of origin – AOP – in front of the brands of the distributors. All these public health goals are essential. [[Ms. Sylvia Pinel applauds]] We take note of the progress that has been made on these various issues. Minister, could you please tell us what measures have already been taken in this vital area of public health?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u56	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u57	Mr President, thank you for your question, which comes from a territory where we know what 'good food' is, good products, short circuits, and the work of farmers and farmers. Yes, we want to promote good food and good agricultural production. We're proud of that! Let us be chauvinistic and co-operative, because we have the chance to have high-quality farmers and producers in our country. Let's go, let's help them! That is the whole meaning of my commitment. Let us feed on these products and not on imported products! We want to support the transitions of our agriculture and develop good practices, but we are faced with tax and social dumping from other countries. We must struggle to achieve a balance. You mentioned the brands of distributors, which are the big issue in the years to come. All the large and medium-sized surfaces are making great efforts to ensure that the brands of the distributors come up in a range. These brands must take the lead of major brands and favour short circuits, as well as farmers and local agriculture. If we succeed, it will be an important success. Improving nutritional quality is one of the strengths of Title II of the EGalim Act and one of the pillars of the National Food Programme. We need to move forward and we have talked a lot about it with Guillaume Garot, who is very involved in this matter. The national and territorial programs must be at the forefront. It is not enough to have quality products, but they must not be saturated with fatty acids, sugars and fats. In this area, we must, in particular, act on communication for children. I regret that the law could not go further because of different votes and censorship. It is essential to make an effort on Nutri-score and set targets for reducing sugar, salt and saturated fatty acids. I have already asked industry to make efforts on this point and will continue to do so. The labels must specifically indicate the composition of the products.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u58	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mr Didier Le Gac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u59	Minister, dear Didier Guillaume, I would like to ask you this morning about the producer organisations – OP –, in particular the means at their disposal to act. The EGalim law, which we have supported, comes from the general states of agriculture and food. It stressed the need to strengthen the contractual relationship between producers and buyers. The logic now prevailing is to reverse the contracting process, starting from the price proposed by the producers, which we have encouraged to join together in OP with a view to weighing more in the negotiations and strengthening their position vis-à-vis the industrialists and distributors. However, in the context of field meetings with the actors of the agricultural world, which I have conducted in my department of Finistère, several OP officials have told me – again recently – about the weakness of the general resources allocated to them with a view to weighing more effectively in the negotiations. Encouraging farmers to regroup is one thing, but they also need to have the means to, for example, make sure that they can salariate their employees, promote the network of producers and animate it. Currently, in order to fulfill this mission, they often have only membership fees paid by their members as their sole resource. In view of the current context, this is necessarily limited. The main tasks of the OPs are to ensure the programming of production and its adaptation to demand, to promote the concentration of supply and the marketing of the production of their members, and to reduce their production costs. To do so, they must have both human and financial resources, but also hardware, such as software. Minister, can you indicate what actions you intend to take – within a budget that I am aware of is being forced to do – in order to provide the necessary resources for the proper functioning of the OPs?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u60	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u61	Member of Parliament, dear Didier Le Gac, here's a guess: 400,000, 1500, four, and we understand everything. 400,000 agricultural holdings, 1500 intermediaries, four purchasing centres: with these figures, we have understood everything. Farmers have not weighed for decades. The general states of food, in which you participated – I once again commend the work carried out by Jean-Baptiste Moreau and his teams – as well as the EGalim law, come from the feeling that everything needs to be changed. Reversing the construction of prices means giving farmers the means to do so. It's impossible alone. The only solution is to resort to the producer organisations that you refer to, Mr. Le Gac. Through them, we will change at all levels the way we approach trade negotiations and price construction. The more producers come together, the more they will have the strength to move forward. You say we have to help them. They have the means.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u62	Not quite!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u63	As part of the negotiations for the future CAP, I have proposed that aid to OPs under the second pillar should be increased.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u65	This is a very important point. It is important that they bring together all the players in the sectors concerned, from upstream to downstream, including industrialists. We referred earlier to the beef and veal sector, which a major operator has abstained from participating in the preparation of the price indicator. We must continue to weigh in order to move in this direction. I'm pretty optimistic about how things are going. I repeat, we are in Year I, in accordance with the will that you expressed in voting on the EGALIM Act, ladies and gentlemen. As of January 15, year I, the number of contracts signed was higher than ever. Things are moving forward. We have to go beyond that. Earlier, President Chassaigne asked me if all the problems would be resolved this year. Definitely not! On this point, we all agree. However, we are taking the first step on a long path at the end of which farmers will be held to be intelligent and serious people, not slaves of the economic world. On this basis, we will rebalance value sharing at all levels of the chain. That's exactly what we have to do. This is the subject of the EGalim law that you have passed. I think you're in the process of succeeding.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u66	Mr Jean-Claude Leclabart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u67	Last year, we were all very involved in the review of Bill EGalim. Adopted on 2 October 2018, it was promulgated on 1 November 2018. Its first objective is to enable farmers to earn a decent income by better allocating value. Several provisions are aimed at achieving this goal, including the two-year experimental food promotion framework, both in value and volume. This measure is intended to improve the remuneration of farmers and SMEs in the agri-food sector. However, some sectors have expressed reservations about a single framework for promotion without distinction as to the sector. Thus, the pig sector was the only one to receive promotion supervision prior to the enactment of the EGalim Act. This was less restrictive than the one now in force, especially during two periods of the year – in January and September – during which it is crucial to boost consumption. It is obvious that the framework for promotions is a real step forward in order to put an end to the abusive raderies carried out by certain operators, which destroyed the value of pigmeat. However, producers in certain sectors could be penalized by a uniform framework of promotions, as distributors will stop putting their products forward, which will prevent the market from being released in case of congestion. It is crucial that downstream operators do not turn away from the marketing tool and use it wisely in order to boost sales without destroying value. Therefore, can you, Minister, detail the measures you have taken to verify the practices of distributors during the historic periods of strong promotions with a view to sustaining this new framework, while encouraging operators to continue the promotion operations? Is a formal review of promotions to draw the conclusions of the scheme – and perhaps to start a recast of the promotional policy if this assessment is not satisfactory in terms of improving the remuneration of the upstream sector – planned?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u68	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u69	Mr Leclabart, after several of your colleagues, you also refer to the evaluation. In politics, we must be able to admit that we may have been wrong, that we have not acted as best we can and that we must correct the shot if a device does not work. I'm not afraid to say. We don't have infuse science. Those of you who voted the EGalim law have shown the will to move forward and take risks. In any case, we will assess the consequences. If we have to amend provisions, we will amend them. The increase in the loss resale threshold is experienced for two years. If, in two years' time, we find that the system is not working, we will be debating a new bill, which you will comment on. Until then, we'll see how things are going. Mr Leclabart, you are also asking me about the supervision of promotions. The Order for the Framework of Promotions in Volume and Value came into force at the beginning of the year. It seems to me necessary to adopt a general rule. If we begin to pass a law for the supervision of promotions in each sector, we will not get away with it. I know the pig industry very well. I know that January provides an opportunity for promotions of 50%, 60% or 70%. If we want to regulate promotions and ensure that products are purchased at the right price, we must keep up with that. The DGCCRF has just published the guidelines for the promotion framework. If I were M. de La Palice, I would say, "Everything that is not prohibited is allowed." Therefore, we must be intelligent and try to move forward with pragmatism. Moreover, the pig industry is already working with Bercy and with large-scale distribution. Furthermore, the order contains a suspension mechanism if its application leads to results contrary to the objectives of the EGalim law. So, we look after the grain. In any case, if we want to give our children a better nutrition education, say, "I'm going to buy a beef rib or lamb chop and I'll have two free for the price of one," that's no longer possible. I say it the way I think it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u70	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u71	Indeed, this means that the products have a zero price. But they have a cost. The supervision of promotions has an educational aim. It is a question of making the consumer understand that the products have a price to pay.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u72	Mr Bertrand Bouyx has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u73	The EGalim Act for the Balance of Trade Relations in the Agricultural Sector and Healthy and Sustainable Food provides that the Government shall legislate by order on the cooperative status of agriculture. Having met with the actors in cooperative agriculture in my constituency, I would like to express their concern and ask the Government for clarification on the content of the ordinances. It is worth recalling why we are all committed to the model of agricultural cooperation. The cooperative status provides farmers with a form of security, which lies entirely in the relationship between the cooperative partner and its cooperative, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, in the assurance for the producer to find an outlet for its production, which the cooperative undertakes to acquire in full for the duration. In a context where rural areas are often weakened, this model, which reinforces the dynamism of sustainable and solidarity-based agricultural activity, must be considered at its fair value and in all its singularity. So how can we explain that cooperatives fear that their model will be loosened by reform, even though representatives of the Agricultural Cooperation in France have actively participated in the general states of food and fully share the objectives of the EGalim law? Firstly, cooperatives fear that they will be given the status of purely commercial actors, even though their operation is very specific. Moreover, the principle of double quality of the members of the cooperative – of which the producers are both owners and bringers – makes the notion of unfairly low prices difficult to apply. For the same reasons, the choice to refer the case to the Trade Relations Ombudsman at the expense of the Cooperation Ombudsman is perceived by farmers as a threat to their model. A cooperative has an obligation to acquire all the production of its members. To sum up and to make it simple, it is not a commercial enterprise like any other. On these specific points, what assurances can you provide to those involved in agricultural cooperation, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u74	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u75	Mr President, thank you for your question, which is the second on the subject, which will allow me to go to the end of the point. The order you mentioned is being drafted. It focuses on the governance and functioning of cooperatives. It is essential because three-quarters of farmers work in a cooperative. We can't do it without it. Therefore, there is no question that the notion of unfairly low prices does not apply to cooperatives. Furthermore, the Government is committed to preserving and promoting the cooperative status and model, which is an opportunity for our country. The EGalim law addresses the case of unfairly low prices. Cooperatives are covered by these provisions, in the same way as the entire agricultural profession. You're asking me if the Government wants to hurt cooperatives. On the contrary! Thank you again for your question, to which I will answer very precisely. The Government supported the cooperative model, which was a model of solidarity and value creation in all territories. However, this model – like any model – is still likely to be improved. Cooperatives are present throughout France. My services and I are working with the leaders of Coop de France to draft the order. The unfairly low price, by nature and by construction, is a legal notion in complete contradiction with the construction of a cooperative price, I grant it to you. On the other hand, I agree a little less with you. The order aims to preserve the cooperative model by maintaining in the rural code, and not in the trade code – on this very important point, we can diverge, ladies and gentlemen, but it is fundamental and essential – the notion of unfairly low prices and by instituting recourse to the High Council for Agricultural Cooperation or the Ombudsman for Agricultural Cooperation, and not to the mediator for agricultural trade relations. In my view, this is a fundamental point. It is not the trade code that applies – nor the mediator for agricultural trade relations – but the rural code, which is very important. We want to maintain the excellence of French agriculture and the cooperative model. Information at a general meeting on price determination is essential. It is based on the transparency that we want to guarantee and will be the subject of a vote by the partners. For the rest, we have to trust the actors. There is no reason for things to go wrong, because each of them will be involved in the process.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u76	Mr Hervé Pellois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u77	Certificates for the conservation of plant protection products were introduced by the Future Law for Agriculture, Food and Forestry of 13 October 2014 in order to reduce the use of plant protection products. The scheme places several obligations on distributors selling such products to our farmers. Thus, they must encourage and carry out actions to save plant protection products. In the event of non-compliance with these obligations by 31 December 2021, a flat-rate penalty per missing unit of account will be imposed on the distributors concerned. Despite these measures, pesticide use increased by 12% between 2014 and 2016. In order to achieve our objectives of reducing the use of plant protection products, the EGalim Act introduces the separation of advice and sales in respect of plant protection products. Let us be careful not to take any measures that are incompatible with each other. Today, distributors are being asked to promote actions to reduce the use of plant protection products, which means knowing the farm and discussing the strategy for crop management with the farmer. At the same time, these distributors are prohibited from giving any strategic advice and advice specific to the use of plant protection products, which will be entrusted to an independent body. How do you envisage the articulation of these two devices? Isn't there a certain contradiction there?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u78	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u79	You have been working on these exciting topics for a long time, Mr. Member, you know them well and I thank you for your question. The aim of the EGalim law is to change practices. What the Government and the deputies of the majority want, as indeed all the deputies, is the transformation of our agriculture. It's good! But we must move from the quantitative of the twentieth century to the qualitative of the twenty-first century. After the war, we asked French farmers to feed France and Europe. We are no longer here: we are asking them today for quality. And we must be proud of this quality agriculture! The oldest parliamentarians and previous governments have understood the need for an agro-ecological transition. We cannot continue to pour the same quantities of plant protection products into the soil! Our soils are in great distress; They are sometimes in a catastrophic state, because we have worked badly, because we have given up the cutlery, because we are doing large tills – while we have to make rotations, rotations... That's the basis of the agronomy! That is the direction we need to go – and most farmers are already working that way. If I fight against agri-bashing, and to defend farmers, it's because I don't know one that's there to pollute the soil and the air! They live in the countryside, they know what it's like! But they have a model, and this model has to change. This is the reason for the successive Ecophyto plans. The results are not satisfactory, I am telling you as I think. But we started a virtuous process. You've got yourself involved. The separation between the sale and the advice you voted for is essential – not to show anyone with a finger, not to suggest that some would fill their pockets by selling plant protection products! Farmers are smart, and these products are expensive: why would they use them more than they need? [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] But this change is indispensable. With the separation of sales and advice, everything will be clearer. As for certificates for the conservation of plant protection products – CEPP – the scheme is evolving: the penalty of 5 euros will be abolished, so as not to impose a double penalty on farmers. There's no question of asking them to pay even more! But the principle of recognition of virtuous actions alternative to the use of plant protection products, thanks to the CEPP, remains. I believe that these measures are in line with your wishes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u80	Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u81	The issuance last December of the orders on the threshold for resale at a loss and the supervision of promotions has sent a clear signal to all stakeholders in the sector by clearly showing the Government's willingness to make the provisions of the EGalim law quickly effective. While I welcome this determination, today I would like to address the measures to implement Title II of the Act, which deals with "measures to promote healthy, quality, sustainable, accessible to all and respectful of animal welfare". This is a strong expectation of the French: this, I believe, also requires the greatest determination. In this regard, Minister, can you tell us what progress has been made in drafting the decrees concerning the conditions for the application of Article 24, i.e. the obligation to propose, in collective restoration, 50% of products under a quality sign, including 20% of organic products, but also concerning the integration of high environmental value requirements in the specification of official signs of quality and origin, the measures guaranteeing respect for animal welfare, in particular the testing of video surveillance in slaughterhouses, and finally the operating and composition of the Food Observatory? In addition, can you tell us more about the drafting of orders to combat food waste and to promote food donation, as well as orders on the separation of sales and advisory functions in the plant protection sector? In addition to better remuneration for farmers, the EGalim law allows as many people as possible access to quality food. I know that your commitment to this matter is complete, and I thank you for clarifying the timetable for the publication of the decrees and ordinances I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u82	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u83	I greeted earlier the work of Jean-Baptiste Moreau on title I; Your question allows me now, Madam Member, to warmly welcome the immense work you have done as rapporteur for Title II. You asked a lot of questions; I can't answer all of them. But it was not for me that your intervention was intended! It was intended for the very many young people present this morning in the stands, and I want to greet them. They are the ones who will make – or not – farmers, quality products in France tomorrow. These young people, I'm sure, eat a lot of industrial spreads, drink a lot of Coca Cola, but they need to know that meat and vegetables are very important – perhaps some of them come from other rural areas, and they know what agriculture is. Title II, which deals with nutrition, on the quality of food, is therefore essential. A decree will be issued at the end of April. In all, we have to write seven ordinances and about twenty decrees: there is still a lot of work... With regard to bio in collective catering and school canteens, this is a subject that we need to deepen, even if the work of the legislator is excellent. We will find it difficult to achieve the objective set by the law. Next to the school catering, there is the administrative restoration, the EHPADs, the hospitals... In the summer, there is no one in schools, colleges... to consume the quality products of the farm France. So we have to work again. President Chassaigne also mentioned bio earlier: bio must continue its progress. We must also look at the signs of quality – labels, controlled labels of origin, protected labels of origin... That's the agriculture of tomorrow. You have to worry about it as ambassadors, and all Members are aware of it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As you understand it, your questions are immense and I cannot answer them this morning. In fact, more than just questions, it was a policy statement, and I am voting for it, because it was excellent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u84	We come to the questions of the Republican Group. Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u85	Minister, a few months ago, we were gathered here around your predecessor to discuss a text that the Government and the President of the Republic had presented as the great agricultural law of the quinquennium, or even as a quasi-revolution for the French farm. Many of my colleagues and I have made every effort to make a positive contribution to this work, aware of the expectations of our farmers and also of the fact that their future depends, more broadly, on the future of our agri-food industry and our territories. In fact, a few months earlier, I had tabled and defended, in the face of a majority who did not listen, a bill for the future of agriculture whose spectre was much wider. My first question, Minister, is about the new price-setting mechanism that has been enshrined in the law, and that is currently living its first hours in the trading boxes. Prices for some food products are on the rise, indicating that the increase in the threshold for resale at a loss and the setting of promotions are having their effects. But I was told by those in charge of the large distribution that I auditioned prior to this session that the only real effect was a shift to the brands of distributors – of lower quality. Moreover, the famous runoff imagined by your ministry does not really seem to produce its effects to the producer, to the farmer. What are, Minister, the first numerical evaluations of these devices? What are the benefits for farmers? On the other hand, the bill that I had tabled and defended included an important part on land, on the transmission of farms, on the delicate question of the disposal of farm property, often family property, but also on the necessary presence of family off-sites. You didn't want it, arguing that a major land law would come into being at the end of 2018. It is February 2019, 200 farms disappear every week in our country, and there is still no law on the horizon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u86	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u87	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Dominique Potier also applauds]] I would ask you, Mr Minister, to tell us this morning whether there will be a reform of land tenure in the coming weeks, but also of the taxation which affects the transmissions of our agricultural holdings: this reform is essential to stem the decline.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u88	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u89	Mr President, you have defended a proposal for a law on agriculture, you are extremely involved, and I welcome it: whatever the bench we sit on, whatever political organisation we belong to, we all want agriculture to be better, farmers to live as best as possible and consumers to enjoy quality food. These were the objectives of the general states of food; They're consensual. You did not vote for the text, but, I repeat, our goals are common. We cannot evaluate these devices right now; their establishment is too recent. But I note that, as early as last December, the negotiations took place in a different way. Contracts were signed by large and medium-sized areas, as was seen in the press. The price of milk has risen. Are the effects already tangible in each farm yard? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But our goal is for them to become so in a few years. And this year, I repeat, we see that contracts are signed at higher prices. I'm not here to point fingers at large and medium-sized surfaces. But everyone has to play the game. You mention the rise in some prices and the brands of distributors. On some call products – alcoholic products, spread pasta... – all distributors get stuck and sell without margin; But they compensate, and there are margins of 30% to 40% on agricultural products! That is what we no longer want: the general states have said so, the law has said so. The new rules on the loss resale threshold may have small consequences for certain products; But quality food on a daily basis is very important. I don't have time to dwell on a subject that I still care about: the brands of distributors. I intend to work on this soon, because we have great room for manoeuvre to help farmers: that is where the most important volumes are, and that is where we need to scale up.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u90	What about the land?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u91	I don't have time to answer you about that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u92	You can take a moment, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Access to land is very important. A joint fact-finding mission has just begun in the National Assembly – Mr Dominique Potier, who is one of the rapporteurs, will no doubt talk about it. I intend to hold major discussions, until July, and then work on a land law, starting in the fall. I work in particular with the National Federation of Land Development and Rural Establishment Companies, the FNSAFER. We'll all work together. The law of the future for agriculture, food and forestry, of which I was the modest rapporteur in the Senate, had opened the construction site. We have to go a little further. The mission chaired by Mr.Sempastous, whose rapporteurs are Anne-Laurence Petel and Dominique Potier, will give us ideas for a future bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u94	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u95	The aim of the Agriculture and Food Act was to improve the remuneration of producers for their work, while at the same time guaranteeing consumers the best possible quality of the product. These two objectives are commendable and we all share these legitimate aspirations here. Every two days, a farmer commits suicide, unable to cope with difficulties, harassed by falling prices, fighting against distributors, debt or the lack of consideration for their work of part of society – a society that gives more attention to violent extremist vegan activists than to the farmer who bleeds every day to produce quality food. The Agriculture and Food Act, when fully implemented, may give farmers all the consideration they deserve. In the meantime, many individual cases deserve your attention, Mr. Minister, and in particular that of Mr. Pascal Butez, a poultry farmer based in Saint-Tricat, in my constituency. As the only French victim of fipronil, Mr. Butez shot 60,000 chickens on his own and destroyed more than a million eggs, in order to guarantee our food security. His exemplary behaviour allowed your ministry to state that no eggs contaminated with fipronil were produced in France. While in March 2018, the State granted him €105000 repayable aid in February 2020, Mr.Butez has spent 18 months of money reaching hundreds of thousands of euros in order to clean up his buildings from the bottom to the bottom. But nothing is done and the measurements show that the eggs tested produced are still contaminated with fipronil. As Mr. Butez's turnover is being reduced to nothing, he will clearly not be able to repay the State's advance, nor will he be able to honour his other debts to private institutions. In addition, it appears that the only solution that would allow the resumption of poultry activity would be a complete change in equipment, or even the destruction and reconstruction of contaminated buildings. Is it therefore possible, Minister, to consider converting repayable cash aid into a direct subsidy? What can you do to allow Mr. Butez to resume his work and resume his activity?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u96	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u97	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for the first part of your speech. Then I know how much you are struggling to help Mr Butez, about whom you have already contacted me. My answer will, however, be very partial, as you will understand, because I cannot mention in the Chamber an individual case, some points being negotiated today. It is not possible for Mr Butez, a victim of fraud, to find himself in difficulty, almost accused in addition. My objective is therefore to help settle the case of this farmer, who has had the honesty to cut down his flock and destroy his production of eggs, contaminated with fipronil. On the other hand, France is fighting on a European scale for labelling, a subject on which it has been very much in advance. On fipronil, a meeting was held on 16 January at the Calais sub-prefecture, at the initiative of the agricultural profession, to take stock of the situation and prospects. Mr. Butez's situation is particularly difficult: attempts to clean up and disinfect have proved unsuccessful and the losses continue. The problem does not seem to be of health origin. At my request, the department's departments are kindly examining the requalification of the repayable advance and the possibility of providing additional assistance. For this to happen, they need a secure legal framework, so continue discussions with the European Commission, as we do. It is only after these discussions that we can conclude. A working group, which brings together the devolved departments of the Ministry and the Chamber of Agriculture, has been set up to assist the farmer in defining a new project and to mobilize, where necessary, existing investment aid schemes. Thank you for your support, Mr Butez. You alerted me to his situation; the department's departments are dealing with it. We are also negotiating with the European Commission, whose response we hope will soon be positive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u98	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u99	One of the objectives of the EGalim Act was to bring producers closer to consumers, i.e. to encourage short circuits, to limit intermediaries, and to restore consumer confidence through proximity and quality. Unfortunately, this laudable objective is being undermined by actors in the meat sector, who, if not in bad faith or even dishonesty, are at least negligent. The behaviour of certain unscrupulous operators, who have put on the market for damaged meat, casts reproach on the whole of a sector already in crisis, while it is constantly evolving, modernising, communicating and increasing in its production. His efforts at traceability and quality, which should be rewarded by price increases for herders, are unfortunately wiped out by these scandals, the latest of which, that of Polish meat damaged, occurs, as by chance, in the final round of negotiations. The first to suffer from this scandal are the French breeders, who are totally alien to these acts. It is therefore essential that Polish sellers and French resellers are identified and condemned for these unacceptable behaviour, dangerous for consumers and ultimately destructive for our breeders. In addition, there are too frequent labelling errors on meat sold in large-scale containers, which deceive consumers and discredit the French industry and production. Following checks carried out on several large areas of Orne, the Young Farmers' Union found that Irish beef was sold while being stamped French beef. Even if the DGCCRF was seized, it is obvious that the consumer is deceived, since he buys at 22 euros the kilo of Irish meat he believes French, of quality, high with requirements and precise specifications. If, both in the general states of food and in the EGalim law, it seemed essential to guarantee the origin, traceability and quality of the productions, how do you think you are acting in practice to prevent acts such as the scandal of Polish meat and wanderings such as mislabelling in the large distribution from annihilating the efforts of the breeders and penalising their income and work?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u100	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u101	Mr President, I thank you, Mr Nury, for your question. Like many of your colleagues, you are fighting to defend agriculture and livestock, which is sometimes the subject of criticism. Livestock is an asset, not a handicap, in the fight against global warming. It is not true that it contributes to global warming, as is often said. On the contrary, grasslands where animals feed contribute to soil cover and contribute to carbon capture, thus contributing to the virtuous cycle of climate control. For the rest, you're quoting fraud, Mr. Member of Parliament. Fraud is fraud. We cannot point the finger at the French farmers, who have nothing to do with it. As far as Polish meat is concerned, I said, as our country is well organized, in less than three days, all the damaged meat has been found. The European Commission is currently investigating in Poland. There will be a trial and the culprits will have to pay. With regard to misleading labelling, public services, including the DGCCRF, should be questioned. If you have any information about this, give it. However, 95 per cent of the meat sold in large and medium areas comes from France. I would have liked to say this in front of the young people who were present earlier in the stands – but they have already left –: I urge everyone to be vigilant with what they buy. Often, in restaurants, a customer who wants meat wants to order a rib or a rib of beef – if he does not want it, he will order something else, everyone is free to do what he wants, but one cannot impose on those who wish to eat meat not to eat it! – but no French meat can be offered. This is a real subject. You mentioned the sector and the producer organisation. They must fight, not only for exports, because we do not export enough French meat, especially to China, as well as to other countries, but also for French meat to be found in restaurants in France – for this, we also need, among other things, adapted prices. [[Smile]] We have quality farms, which will be put forward, in a week or two, at the Agricultural Show. The meat they produce must be found on our plates, in French restaurants, including that of the Assembly, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u102	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u103	On 1 January this year, the first ordinance of the Agricultural and Food Trade Balance Act came into force, the lost resale threshold, the provisions of which have been applicable since 1 February, as has been mentioned several times this morning. If we consider that this order has the effect of better regulating the margins of large and medium-sized areas in the resale of agricultural products, we do not see the benefit that farmers will derive from it, whereas one of the main objectives of the law was to enable them to live from their production. Worse, as we had expressed the fear during the discussion of the text, the negotiations are marked by a refusal by the purchasing power plants to buy agricultural products at their fair value, in particular by bypassing the framework agreements. As you know, minister, our farmers are out of breath and the purpose of the law was to give them room for manoeuvre. Today, they are all calling for the entry into force of the ordinance provided for by law, aimed at prohibiting the sale of purchasing centres at unfairly low prices. A draft order, submitted by the Government on 17 December, was endorsed by the main farmers' unions, in particular with regard to the inclusion of production costs in price setting. This order, which has not yet been published, seems to us to be the cornerstone of a successful agricultural policy. Indeed, as long as it is not in place, there is no requirement for purchasing stations to take into account the well-known price-setting indicators, which we have discussed at length in our consideration of the bill. When will this order, which we hope will allow our farmers to live with dignity from their production, come into force?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u104	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u105	Mr President, as I said to your colleagues, we all have the same objective: to ensure that farmers live decently from their work and production. This is a point of unanimity. The order for unfairly low prices will be published in April. Why not sooner? Because multiple discussions are necessary. Co-operatives, as I have already said, are not necessarily in favour of them. They wonder whether, together with their associate members, they are part of this framework. There are also some areas of inquiry. Not all professional organisations are necessarily on the same line, as you know, and this is no big deal. I'm trying to find a compromise and move forward. This order, which has been addressed to the General Secretariat of the Government, will shortly be considered by the Council of State. It will be published in April. She's indispensable. Mr Prud'homme pleaded earlier in favour of the introduction of floor prices. But this is a recipe for the old economy, which cannot be used in a liberal economy. On the other hand, the imposition of unfairly low prices will solve the problem. However, Mr. Lurton, you will allow me to tell you that I find you too pessimistic, perhaps even more so than farmers and cooperatives. Today, prices, especially milk prices, have begun to rise. With regard to meat, as Jérôme Nury said, it could have gone faster if the professional organisation had set its price indicators earlier. We'll be together, and we'll win the game. Our only objective, that is, that the peasants finally live from their work, will be achieved in stages, but we will achieve it. The order to be issued in April will be clear. For meeting all the bosses of large and medium-sized areas, as well as representatives of the industrialists, the National Association of Food Industries – ANIA – and SMEs, I can tell you that the situation is changing, thanks to you, ladies and gentlemen, who set in motion a virtuous cycle of negotiation. We'll never go back.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u106	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u107	I welcome today's opportunity to discuss the application of the law from the food states. We have been right, ladies and gentlemen, to pass a law to transform relations between distributors and producers. As you pointed out, Minister, there had never been so many contracts between manufacturers, distributors and producers before this year. And here I want to pay tribute to your predecessor, Stéphane Travert, for the enormous work done. However, I would like to alert you, following my colleague Richard Ramos who did so earlier this year, to the progress of the trade negotiations, in which not all the actors played the game. Some groups have devised new practices to circumvent the law. Some have even dereferenced overnight a brand produced by our farmers, not to have to make a little effort on the sale price. We must stop this price war, which is deadly for producers and farmers. Let the distributors stop trampling on the advances of the EGalim law, take responsibility and respect the rules of the game! It is unbearable that they are putting in place a two-speed diet, where the diet for the poor would be less virtuous and less healthy than that for the rich. Minister, I have no doubt about your commitment on this matter. What has emerged from the follow-up committee that you have met? Has the Ombudsperson for Agricultural Trade Relations been referred to? Has the DGCCRF visited the large areas to check that all are in order with the new provisions? What do you intend to do to ensure compliance with the law and, above all, to make those distributors who do not comply with the rules bend?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u108	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u109	Mr President, my dear Bruno Millienne, allow me first of all to express my solidarity and friendship with you after the acts committed against your permanence. To all Members who have been victims of such acts, I mean that this is unacceptable. In a democracy, we discuss, we can agree or disagree, but we do not break a door, we do not degrade a permanence. On behalf of the Government, I assure you of my sympathy. In agricultural transitions, as in the extension of our national food programme, we must combat the terrible discrimination that you have just mentioned. There can be no food for the poor, and another for the rich. Rich people cannot have access to a high-quality, organic, short-circuit, high-quality nutrition and environmental food that preserves the planet, while the poor are excluded from it. This is an issue for the Government and for all of you, on these benches. But the products from agriculture that we find today in our large areas, in our shops are all generally quality products, even if of a different level. We must continue in that direction. After your colleague Mr Ramos did so at the beginning of the year, you ask me in your turn about the continuation of negotiations with large and medium-sized areas – we talked a lot about it this morning. Large surfaces begin to play the game. Do they do so sufficiently vis-à-vis farmers? Probably not. It's a start, let's keep fighting! I intend to continue my contacts with those responsible for mass distribution and all those involved in trade negotiations. Negotiations will be concluded in ten days – agreements are likely to be signed for the Agriculture Fair; If that were not the case, that would be a problem. Immediately thereafter, discussions will have to be resumed, in particular on the most important brands of distributors. Yes, there is still work and the Government will need you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u110	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u111	My question concerns the separation of advice from the sale of plant protection products. If the intention is legitimate, our only real goal must be to promote more environmentally virtuous agriculture. Are we on the right track? Let me doubt that. When the draft order is read, it is the perplexity that prevails. We are not starting from a white leaf but from a national territory covered by hundreds of cooperatives and trading companies, which employ thousands of technicians who give daily advice to our farmers. The order refers to the date of 1 January 2021 for the entry into force of the separation of counsel and the sale, with very strict rules on the holding of capital for each activity. How can I imagine such a shambles so quickly? It's the insurance of a disaster. It will first be economic and social: many cooperatives and traders will not succeed in rethinking their economic model in such a short time; There'll be some damage. But the disaster will also be environmental: farmers, financially exsangued, will choose to buy products alone, without resorting to advisory structures which, moreover, will not yet exist and which, in any case, will not cover all the crops. Today, our storage agencies carry out thousands of tests to validate and refine their recommendations. What about tomorrow? Minister, too many questions remain unanswered to organize such a big bang in a year. Would it not be more relevant to conduct an experiment in certain departments? Otherwise, could we consider maintaining separation but allowing for greater capital participation at first to allow a smoother transition? Or why not entrust the powerful strategic council to independent bodies such as the chambers of agriculture and leave to the storing agencies the advice of use of daily life? We share, Minister, your environmental requirement and the separation of council and sales will certainly meet it. But agriculture is going wrong, you know that very well, and it cannot afford to jump into the unknown.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u112	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u113	Our democracy is thus made that, on this subject, a question put by others on other benches – in this case, Mr Prud 'homme did – would lead to completely different conclusions. The law you passed sets a goal – the separation of sales and advice. We must stick to it and move forward. It is essential to reduce the level of inputs – Mr.Pellois has been working on this subject for years. The order is the subject of discussions with Coop de France and with the associations – you have also heard about it. It must help to reposition the farmer as a key player in the scheme. Are we sure the council is done right now? Is it certain that the farmer is not caught in vice – does not the advice he received prompt him to buy too many products? Today we have 800 advisors in the chambers of agriculture and 200 independent advisors – the latter are already providing their advice. We want to go further and avoid that it is the same person who advises and sells the corresponding products. Let us recognize that it is logical to establish a barrier between the two activities. This one won't be completely waterproof. We have heard Coop de France's remarks and have changed the order. I hear what farmers say. Starting in January 2021, a strategic board will have to be issued on each farm twice over a five-year period. Farmers need these advice. The implementing decree will be drafted in 2019. I am in favour of us continuing the discussion if you wish. We do not take farmers without help. They expect this evolution. We will ensure that it is carried out in the best possible way, in the interests of agriculture, of the soil, of the quality of our products, in accordance with the precautionary principle, but also in the interests of farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u114	Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u115	The EGalim law is more remuneration for farmers, therefore more recognition of the daily labor of men and women who do not count their time, nor their energy to produce our food, who know how to adapt to the hazards of the weather, who are heirs to the rural values of France, who maintain our landscapes, and who know the virtues of a preserved nature. If farmers mainly withdraw their income from plant and animal production, they can supplement it with other activities. Renewable energy production is one of the diversifications that can provide additional income for farmers. Among renewable energies, methanization appears to be intimately linked to agriculture. Like crops and livestock, methanization demonstrates the ability to work with the living. Beyond farmers and their farms, methanisation is a guarantee of economic benefits for our territories and it allows, let us not forget, to produce gas in France, thereby reducing our vulnerability to rising world energy prices and international tensions. However, methanisation has been neglected by multi-annual energy programming – PPE. The target for the share of renewable gas production in gas consumption is set at 7% in the very recent project presented by the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, which will be the subject of consultations. 7% is a step backwards, relegating to oblivion the ambitions displayed not so long ago. Why, therefore, have we welcomed and so publicized the studies of GRDF, ADEME – Agency for the Environment and Energy Management – and other bodies that demonstrated the opportunities and advantages of the development of the sector? Minister, do you see methanization as an asset to our agriculture, our territories and our country? If so, how do you intend to support and defend an upward revision of the PPE target? Your support for methanization is another way of recognizing the place of farmers in our society, our economy and our territories in their diversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u116	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u117	Thank you, honourable Member, for your excellent question. The answer is yes, three times yes. I share your goal. We must achieve this together. I intend to fight on this. Farmers sometimes need an income supplement. They are farmers but also economic actors, entrepreneurs. The economy is absolutely not a big word in agriculture. We need to move forward on methanization. I fought to get a little more in the EPP. Finally, the arbitration resulted in 7%. You would have wanted 10%...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u118	Or more!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u119	...yes, but we're already at 7%, because we're not there yet. As part of the public consultation that is being held, express yourself and encourage farmers to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u120	I'll do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u121	I know that. I would like to say this in the warm and friendly atmosphere of our debate this morning, because it is very important for the future of our agriculture. Methanization cannot be considered to be an adjunct subject. Everyone has to decide. I want to move on. But to do this, it is not possible to have to wait several years to install a methanizer. Deep changes are therefore needed: networks must be adapted, markets must be found, production must be diversified – biogas, bioethanol. Let's open the debate – what kind of methanization? from which products? – with associations and the agricultural world and then let's take care of it. There is also a need to quantify the cost of methanization, assess its cost-effectiveness, define the modalities of its deployment, and assess its sustainability. We have already met with my colleague, François de Rugy, on the subject. Member, you're right to commit, keep going! I need Members of Parliament on this subject. Methanization is not a big word. It can be an economic tool of the future for our agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u122	Finally, we come to the questions of the Socialist and Related Group, both of which will be asked by Mr Dominique Potier. You have the floor, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u123	I had a thousand questions to ask you, minister, but we had to choose two. First of all, I would like to greet all those who have been elected to the chambers of agriculture and who, in their diversity, are going to work at the service of our country, alongside you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u124	Not all elected officials are yet known!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u125	You're right. I accept the excellent question put by André Chassaigne on organic farming and that of Arnaud Viala on land. My question concerns cooperatives and consultation. Today, the big debate is in full swing. Guillaume Garot and I had the honour of being associated with the general states of food and I think we did our job. A major national debate on food has taken place. Then the EGalim law came: no dialogue; three of our small amendments passed in difficulty; We were not heard when we had been craftsmen of the laws that had preceded it and in the continuity of which it was part. Then, for the ordinances, zero consultation. I remember having the minister repeat three times that parliamentarians would be involved in the drafting of the Co-operation Order. I went around my colleagues on all the opposition benches: no one was associated. So the little recent bug is no wonder. If you had listened to us, not only would the text have remained in the rural code, but you would have avoided defying the cooperatives unnecessarily, which I remind them that they buy all the production from all the producers – without comparison with the private giants with which they compete. We would have asked some exciting questions that were not addressed in the order: how can cooperatives achieve the ideal of the social economy in terms of income gaps and value sharing? How can they fit within the framework of the future PACTE law for the new company? How can they, together with associations of producer organisations, build prices – it's not simple legally – in order to put an end to the leonin relations that you are denouncing alongside us? How, at the international level, can they take into account the need to respect the countries of the South and not to crush them by grabbing their land or by taking advantage of trade relations that we condemn together? The lack of consultation deprived a debate that could have been fruitful. I would like you to review your position and now consider Members in their diversity as allies in building future solutions for our agriculture and rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u126	Can we consider that you asked both of your questions, Mr. Potier?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u127	Of course not!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u128	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u129	I'm not going to be so happy to answer Mr. Potier's two questions. Thank you for pointing out that the EGAs were a great moment of public debate. Then, the EGalim law, you didn't vote it. You are opposed to the law but you would like to be consulted on its implementation. That's a little surprising. Since taking office, I have conducted many consultations, but I have consulted with those who support the law. I have organized many meetings, especially with Coop de France. Mr Potier, let me tell you that your assertions are false. In the creusian patois, it is called fake news, in other words balivers. The Cooperation Ordinance is in favour of cooperation; it refers to the rural code and not to the commercial code; It plans to reform the High Council for Agricultural Cooperation. You said the other way around, Mr. Potier. You have the right to contradict me, but to say the opposite of reality is not right. Last week, I talked to the officials of Coop de France until late in the night. In Mende, on Monday afternoon, I exchanged for a long time with the President of the National Bovine Federation – FNB – and others on this order. I also consulted the rapporteur for the EGalim law, Mr Moreau, who met Coop de France himself. We're working. The Government's objective is to defend and promote cooperation in France and to assist Coop de France. We want to protect cooperatives, but governance needs to evolve. No Member of Parliament wants to undermine cooperation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u130	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor for his second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u131	Consultation is therefore limited to those who have passed the law. It's a novelty, and I take note of it. My second question concerns agroecology. It was the fight of your predecessors during the previous term, Minister, and you were associated with it. It will be a great pride, which will remain in the long term. With the EGalim law, we have done a little more than with the Sapin 2 law and the law of the future for agriculture, food and the forest – LAAAF – but we must not afford words: we have entered into a form of continuity, moreover not enough in my view, hence our reserves. With regard to agroecology, I would like first of all to pay tribute to Paul François, who yesterday suffered a great humiliation in the trial against a chemical giant: he will have to wait until April to obtain the answer of justice. We have a very strong thought for him, for the fight he leads and for those who accompany him, the association Phyto-Victimes. I welcome, minister, the fact that you are opening up the site of high environmental value – HVE – one of the few small victories of the Socialist and related group during the review of Bill EGalim. Our proposal was to establish a link between the HVE and the provisions of the Grenelle and LAAAF legislation, to project it in the EGalim text. This is one of the major levers, alongside organic farming, to transform our agriculture. I'll be, we'll be at your side to build this future solution. On the other hand, I am extremely disconcerted by the prescriptions that have been published on the Certificates of Conservation of Plant Protection Products – CEPP. Hervé Pellois was a little wrong: the content of the LAAAF was damaged following an appeal to the Council of State, and it was the law on combating land grabbing and the development of biocontrol, which I defended and which was promulgated on 20 March 2017, at the extreme end of the last mandate, which allowed the provisions relating to the CEPP to be re-established. However, there was no consultation with the rapporteur of the law, who founded the CEPP. It's too bad, and understand that I'm a little married. The absence of sanctions and the very confused separation between the sale and the council run counter to the obligation and responsibility of the company in the implementation of the CEPP. The dynamics of empowerment – empowerment – of businesses, sectors and territories were beginning to bear fruit. The National Institute for Agricultural Research – INRA – emerged from its drawers from the solutions, which were implemented and created a positive dynamic. But it seems to me to be broken by the absence of sanctions and by this confused separation, which is not a real separation and will allow all possible drifts. So we have not come out of the double injunction, which is unfortunate. I would like you to measure, Minister, that the Ecophyto 2 plan was launched in November 2014, almost four and a half years ago, and that it is still not being implemented. I am thinking of the fact that it had to be deployed on 30,000 farms, I am thinking of the dephysic system, I am thinking of the CEPP, but I fear that the potential for transformation that they carried in them has been ruined.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u132	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u133	You know, honourable Member, all the friendship we have with each other, and how much we worked together on agriculture during the previous quinquennium. It is true that the LAAAF, of which I have been modestly the rapporteur in the Senate, has made it possible to move forward on some issues, but also do not make it the alpha and the omega of agriculture for the next twenty years...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u134	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u135	...and do not denigrate the EGalim law, which has made it possible to move forward on many other subjects. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] With regard to the Ecophyto plan, we have both fought for the recognition of poisoning and the creation of a compensation fund. However, we have never been able to obtain it in the previous quinquennium, and it is this majority and this government that do so. Take note of it, Mr. Potier! Don't squander that victory! That's a very good thing! Recognize that this is an achievement of this quinquennium and this government!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u136	That's not true, and you know it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u137	[[Smile]] Let's not denigrate! Let's move on! Consideration of the bill on this subject came too late during your niche and could not be completed, but it will be taken up in the context of the finance bill, Mrs Buzyn repeated it yesterday at this bench. I voted that in the Senate, and I am very supportive of it. The Senate voted unanimously. Ladies and gentlemen, follow the Senate for once!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u138	That's a fake news!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u139	Vote this text and start the process! This is a very important point. The EGalim law has provided clarifications and made many advances. But a law is not made to last twenty or thirty years. The CEPP are a label, so much the better, but it is not a tool of constraint, Mr. Mr Pellois, with whom I know you share a number of convictions, has asked a question, and we will continue to move in that direction. With regard to the separation between sales and advice, there is no setback. We should not step back whenever there is a problem in this country! This has been seen in the past: as soon as there was a problem, his law or proposal was withdrawn... No, we're going to move on! It's complicated, but for that very reason, we're going to get into the mix and we're going to get there. With regard to the CEPP and a new plant plan, we will not only say that the amount of inputs must be reduced, but that more plant protection products have been sold and used in the last three years than in the previous three years – it cannot be said that this is a success... [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Your expertise is essential, Mr. Potier. Help the majority move in this direction!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u140	Mr Jean Lassalle, in the name of the non-attached Members, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u141	Thank you, Madam President, you're always so kind. First of all, Minister, I would like to say that I find you very friendly and available. If you could give the instructions to all your colleagues, I would be very happy. You come to say hello, when you don't even have to do it. On the other hand, you can write ten times to some of your colleagues, and nothing will ever happen. I could, on the basis of one of the three pillars of the law, "pay the fair price to the producer to allow them to live with dignity from their work," speak of the low income of farmers. My sixty-year-old brother is raising 400 mother sheep. He sells the cheese he produces in almost all of France; Otherwise, he wouldn't get away with it. He has nevertheless reached a certain level, since he was president of the trade union of defence of the protected designation of origin ossau-iraty. You are well aware, Minister, of the level of farmers' remuneration. I could mention many other subjects, the over-indebtedness, the appetite of the distribution giants, the mortality of farmers, but everyone has done so, and we all know that by heart. I would like to draw your attention to two points, Minister. Firstly, we must absolutely save agriculture from France. As other colleagues have said, I will contribute to this by doing everything I can and can do. This is an absolute imperative. French agriculture does not look like any other. It is the conjunction of all capacities to produce. Secondly, the transmission of agricultural holdings is a very serious problem. Today, our children study up to twenty-two or twenty-three years. They often meet a companion who wants to run away rather than stay when he or she sees the farm. As for the companions and companions of the brothers and sisters, they imagine that the property is worth billions. It is therefore very difficult to find successors in our facilities. Forty years ago, when I was a young mayor, I set up twenty-eight farms in my commune.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u142	Mr. Lassalle...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u143	Today, I may be setting up two of them, those of two young women. One is my brother's daughter, the other is my former assistant's daughter. There is a need to find solutions to this problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u144	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u145	Thank you, Madam President. I will no longer intervene in this session. I am very admired by your patience.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u146	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u147	French agriculture is wonderful. It's one of the best and most beautiful in the world. We have a tradition of family farming, farm farming: the family lives on the farm. And it's a nice model.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u148	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u149	It is necessary to defend this model against agri-bashing – it is from the patois of the valley of Aspe (Sourries) – but at the same time it is necessary for agriculture to move, not to stay there, to move forward. Mr Lassalle, you mentioned the transformation workshop of your brother, who raises 400 mother sheep to make ossau-iraty. That is an excellent example. All those who transform their production on the spot are seeing their incomes increase. Whether it's ossau-iraty – delicious cheese from nature or with black cherry jam; For my part, I prefer it nature – the beaufort, the county or the roquefort, it works and there is no real income problem. That's what we have to do. Agriculture needs to be transformed and scaled up. In any case, you are asking the central question, Mr. Lassalle, that of the age of the captain. There must indeed be young people to continue the exploitation. It is therefore necessary to train them and encourage them to settle, which is more complicated in some places, where they are less numerous, where they cannot stay. As long as the young people hear all these criticisms, as long as they hear that one does not make a living, they will not be inclined to become peasants. So we have to change our mindset. If we succeed, thanks to the EGalim law that you voted for, in reversing the price construction process, if farmers, producers and breeders make a better living, it will encourage young people to settle. If we manage to find affordable land – there is land available, but it is inaccessible to young people – and to fight against the artificialization of land, we will encourage young people to settle. So you raise a very important question, Mr Lassalle. Thank you, Madam President, for allowing us all to go a little bit beyond our speaking time. I agree, of course, with the House's Rules of Procedure, but two minutes is short to redo French, European and global agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u150	That's for sure...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u151	I thank all the Members present. We had a good debate this morning...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u152	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u153	... certainly frustrating because we could not get to the bottom of things enough, but interesting because we found that the same objectives were shared on all benches, both by those who voted the law and by the others: first, that French agriculture radiates; Secondly, that the diet be healthy, safe and traced. Above all, if there are still farmers tomorrow and if farms are to be taken over, if we are to avoid disappointment, we must do two essential things. First, it is necessary to ensure that farmers have an income. The EGALIM law will contribute, thanks to you; It may be you who will have transformed and brought back French agriculture. Then we have to put an end to the agri-bashing. We must defend, we must promote, we must support farmers, farmers and all our farms. Because this is the future of our country. What do the kids want who attended our debates earlier? Eating good meat...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u154	And good fish!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u155	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ...yes, good fish, in short good products. Forests must also be maintained. It is all this, ladies and gentlemen, that I invite us to do together. Long live French agriculture and congratulations to the farmers of France!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u156	The question-and-answer session on the implementation of the Agriculture and Food Act has been completed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u157	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u158	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u159	The next item is the debate on the Golden Mountain. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. I would remind you that the length of the questions, as well as the length of the answers, is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u160	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u161	I recall on the basis of Rule 58(1) of our Rules of Procedure, which deals with the conduct of the sitting. I would like to alert the National Assembly to whether or not, in this debate, Article 80-5 of our Rules of Procedure and Article 4d of the 1958 Order, which refer to the rules applicable to representatives of interests, which are subject to a code of conduct. As far as the Golden Mountain is concerned, these rules are clearly not respected. Having been asked by the firm MHB SAS for an appointment by the president and the general manager of Columbus Gold on 5 October, I replied to this firm that it was not registered in the register of the High Authority for the transparency of public life. This cabinet reported on a series of meetings with MPs on October 17 and 18. I have warned the High Authority for the transparency of public life of these facts. The National Assembly as a whole must remember that there can be no clandestine lobbying, much less on the part of those who want a mountain of gold. That is why I wish to alert the Bureau and the Ethics Officer of the National Assembly: I checked yesterday whether these interlocutors had registered on the register of representatives of interests, as they had assured me that they would do so, and that is clearly not the case. I would also like to remind colleagues who have not shown the same vigilance and who have met with these interlocutors that they must share all the information that has been brought to their attention in this context with the entire national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u162	I take note of your point of order and will inform the President of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u163	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u164	We are in this Chamber to discuss the Gold Mountain megamine project. To date, this is the largest gold project ever on the national territory. Far from referring only to Guyana, it raises the question of the social, environmental and economic acceptability of major mining projects, at a time when the Paris agreement is being attacked on all sides, while the President of the Republic is committed to making France a leader in the fight against global warming. For, beyond the Gold Mountain project alone, it is indeed the vision of the development of our territories and the transcription in fact and in the acts of our commitments on ecological and solidarity transition that must ask us questions. In reality, behind the evocative and enchanting name of the Golden Mountain is a mountain of superlatives for a poorly recessed project between two integral biological reserves housing more than 2,000 animal and plant species, including 120 protected species. This Golden Mountain will actually be a huge hole. Judge for yourself: 2500 meters long, 500 meters wide and 400 meters deep, equivalent to thirty-two stadiums in France! Daily, from this pit, will be extracted 80000 tons of rock debris removed from the earth's bowels with 18 tons of explosives and treated with 10 tons of cyanide. As far as taxation is concerned, this mountain will undoubtedly give birth to a mouse: 54 million tonnes of minerals extracted in 12 years will be recovered only 85 tonnes of gold, with a turnover of around 12 billion euros, but which will allow only 5 small million euros per year to flow to the French Guiana communities, due to a completely inadequate tax system. The EUR 5 million a year is the small lollipop that is being projected by investors who are predatory to a Guiana suffocated by exsangue local finances that no longer allow us to deal with the consequences of the demographic explosion of the territory and the shortcomings of the state. As for the 750 full-time equivalents promised, they will only be a new glamour in the face of some young people who despair of finding a job and who are looking for opportunities, while reality shows the precariousness and extreme tenibility of 85% of jobs in the sector. At this point in my speech, allow me to express a thought for the 134 people who have died and 200 who have disappeared – the vast majority of the mining workers – in the Brumadinho disaster, which continues to mourn our Brazilian neighbour. Four years earlier, just a few kilometres away, another dam rupture had claimed the lives of nineteen people and polluted hundreds of kilometres of rivers for more than thirty years, lastingly affecting the lives of indigenous peoples. For example, the indigenous communities of Guyana, through the Grand Customary Council and their representative organizations, have expressed their massive rejection of the project, to the point that the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination has ordered France to carry out a genuine consultation of these populations, in full conformity with international law in this field, which does not seem to have been the case with the debate organised under the authority of the National Commission for Public Debate – CNDP. This public debate revealed a strong and undisputed opposition from Guyanans to the project, with 86 per cent of participants worried about its environmental impact and 55 per cent felt that its social and economic benefits would be insignificant. This massive refusal is also reflected in the latest FIFG survey, which shows that 69% of Guyanans are opposed to the project, 81% of them considering that it poses a significant risk to the environment. In addition, two petitions of opposition to the project to date bring together 384,000 signatures for one and 114000 for the other. In all, more than 100 local organizations have committed themselves to this project, which they consider harmful to Guyana and Guyanans. Any concerns? We have too much, Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition: because of the opening and depth of the mine, which carries with it risks of pollution such as the drilling of groundwaters and acidic mining drainage; Due also to the high local rainfall, which makes it difficult to control the risk of runoff of heavy metals, as pointed out in the latest report of INERIS – National Institute of the Industrial Environment and Risks. At present, however, the project leader has not provided any concrete elements for the assessment of these risks. Threats are also inherent in the reliability of the storage of cyanide sludge, since millions of tons of crushed and cyanide rocks will be stored as sludge in tailings parks, which will have to resist in time and space. The risk of environmental pollution is high, since mine dams are released two to three times a year under the pressure of the sediments they store. This is what happened in Brazil last week and especially in Omai, Guyana, in 1995, one of the largest gold mines in the world, where the 4.2 million cubic metres of cyanide water spill into the Essequibo River poisoned 25,000 people. The operator of this mine, the Canadian Cambior, is the same as the one who was carrying the project of the first industrial mine in Guyana, stopped in 2007 by Nicolas Sarkozy after a very strong mobilization of the population and against the opinion of the local elected officials, due to the "inadequacies shown by the project regarding the impact on the fauna and flora as well as on the conditions under which the water contaminated with cyanide will be released into nature". It should be noted that cyanide is an extremely dangerous poison at all stages of its use. However, the promoter of the project insists on using it, as it is always in search of maximum profits, while there are alternatives, which are certainly less profitable but, above all, less dangerous. Cyanide is the cause of Europe's worst environmental disaster since Chernobyl on 30 January 2000 in Romania, where 100,000 cubic metres of cyanide water loaded with heavy metals have polluted rivers and rivers for hundreds of kilometres. Cyanide, along with arsenic, also poisons the lives of the residents of the Salsigne mine in Aude, France's most polluted site. This poison presents such dangers that in 2017 the European Parliament, by an overwhelming majority of 566 votes, against 8, voted to ban its use in mines. This ban is now effective not only in several European countries, but also in some American states. In addition, the Minister of State, Mrs Ségolène Royal, your predecessor, spoke in 2016 in favour of a moratorium against cyanide. Unfortunately, his wish has never come true, certainly because of the lobbies, which have been so criticized in recent weeks by Nicolas Hulot. That is why I have tabled a motion for a resolution, with eighty-three colleagues sitting on all the benches of this House, including twenty-four of the twenty-seven ultramarine elected members, calling on France to stand up to the issue by banning cyanide in mines. Here I would like to express my sincere thanks to them. It is also important not to repeat the devastating mistakes related to chlordecone in the West Indies and mercury in Guyana, against which I urge the Government to wage a merciless war – because Harpie operations have really shown their limits. [[Ms. Delphine Batho applauds]] That is why, Mr Minister of State, on behalf of an overwhelming majority of Guyanans, on behalf of the hundreds of thousands of signatories to the various petitions, on behalf of the eighty-three members of the House who signed the motion for a resolution, and on behalf of all those who have expressed their support to me in spite of the pressure, I solemnly ask you to give up the gold mountain mining project. I say every year, 3,300 tonnes of cyanide, 3000 tonnes of lime, 100 tonnes of lead nitrate, 1800 tonnes of sodium metabisulfite, 60 tonnes of copper sulphate, 84 tonnes of soda and 24 tonnes of sulphuric acid. We are at light-years away from the "overseas trajectory 5.0" set by the Overseas Ministry, which sets itself as ambition zero waste, zero carbon, zero chemical input, zero exclusion and zero vulnerability! These are radically opposite dynamics, the rapprochement of which is a pure schizophrenia. Give up this ineptitude which will swallow up 560000 euros per job created. Renunciate this aberration which lies in the industrialization at all costs of a sector with almost zero training effects, and which runs counter to all the beautiful ambitions we have for this territory. No, Minister of State, contrary to what is said here and there, the opposition to this project is neither dogmatic nor idealistic. The reports of the General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development of 2016 and the Deloitte cabinet of 2018 demonstrate what we already know: the economic and social development of Guyana and overseas countries and territories in general requires the development of sustainable sectors. The assets are there, the wealth too – I am thinking in particular of the abundance of renewable fresh water, which cannot be defiled with impunity by the activities of the extractive industries. The only thing that is sorely lacking is the will and above all the political courage to develop future-oriented channels. We must abandon everything enclosed in a strategy where the profits of a minority of shareholders would be at the expense of the people and at the risk of our environment. That is why I want to believe, Mr Minister of State, in your commitment, in that of the President of the Republic and that of France, which cannot be summed up in slogans. It is necessary that this project which is harmful to Guyana and to the image of France be buried quickly, because the Montagne d'Or will quickly leave room for a vast hole filled with garbage. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR, SOC, LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mrs Delphine Batho also applauds]] Minister of State, let's put Guyana on the path of sustainable development, because it has all the potential to finally be elevated to a world crossroads of excellence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u165	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u166	The subject which brings us together this morning is an honour for our Parliament. If we, Members of the Freedom and Territory Group who are not an integral part of the majority, can regularly offend us in the organisation of parliamentary debates, we should welcome the inclusion of this debate on the agenda. We are pleased that the subject of the Montagne d'Or has travelled more than 7,000 kilometres to land in the heart of French democracy: this demonstrates its importance and above all the importance of all our territories, wherever they are. The discussion which brings us together this morning sums up all the problems we will face in the coming years and decades. It should be recalled that France is a party to the major global commitments to preserve biodiversity, in particular the Convention on Biological Diversity negotiated at the Rio Conference in June 1992, which aims to provide a comprehensive response to the environmental, social and economic challenges of sustainable development. This Convention is complemented by the Aichi Biodiversity Objectives and the Nagoya Protocol adopted in 2010. France's responsibility at the international level is major given the exceptional richness of its biodiversity, particularly ultramarine. As you know, Minister of State, France is home to 10% of the world's known species. It also has the second maritime space in the world, 90 per cent of which is overseas. It is important to remember that the protection of the environment is a major challenge for humanity as a whole, both in our own territories and in other parts of the world. It is a common and universal duty to respect this collective good for all, by preventing us from using with impunity the various categories of living beings – animals, plants, natural elements – according to our own economic plans. This perspective is of particular importance if we consider, in the context of the close links between different ecosystems, the environmental value of biodiversity, which must be treated with a great sense of responsibility and protected in an appropriate manner, as it constitutes an extraordinary wealth for all mankind. These elements are fundamental to our political conduct. Everyone can easily grasp the importance of the Amazon region, one of the world's most valued natural spaces for its biological diversity, which makes it vital for the environmental balance of the entire planet. Forests help to maintain essential natural balances that are essential to life. We must protect them from the destruction, including the indiscriminate criminal arson and the wild exploitation of gold, which accelerate the process of desertification. We must all feel concerned about the protection of the natural forest heritage. Where necessary, we need to promote appropriate species reintroduction and reforestation programmes. Before that, we must ask ourselves about the planned projects. The Gold Mountain project raises the question of our environmental responsibility, our relationship with local people, our global vision. From this rostrum, I would like to address the local people on behalf of the Members of Parliament of the whole nation. Guyanans count as much as those I meet every day in my constituency. I recall their equal dignity and their participation in our common destiny. There can be no difference between the French. We therefore have an important responsibility, individually and collectively, in maintaining this biodiversity in French, in accordance with the decisions of the people. WWF's Living Planet report recalls that 60% of vertebrates disappeared from the world's surface between 1970 and 2014 and that 25% of EU land is affected by erosion. In this context of the biodiversity crisis, it is up to us, representatives of the French people, to be exemplary and to commit ourselves calmly to the generations to come. Experts are advancing pharaonic figures for this Gold Mountain project. However, the share of our responsibility in global engagement is important. I take the time to insist: it is not for us to oppose a particular project or, on the contrary, to give a blank-seing. Within the Liberties and Territories Group, we want to actively contribute to raising the level of environmental and social requirements. We are all aware here that the global need for gold is beyond the national framework, and we know that this need for the global economy will not diminish. It would be easy for us to yell at the wolf and turn our eyes away from our responsibility. Let us imagine for a moment that these operations, which call for extreme vigilance with regard to the environment, move on to other states that are less concerned in environmental and social terms: our responsibility would be double! So, together with several fellow Members, we would like to see a paradigm shift on this project. In connection with the local elected representatives, we want to postpone this project by raising social and environmental requirements. Let's not be locked in postures! Economic time cannot be imposed on political time: politics must impose new dimensions and new commitments on the economy. [[Applause on several benches of MODEM and GDR groups]] We therefore hope that this project will be accompanied by enhanced environmental and social commitments, that it will be State-controlled and validated by local populations. We need to get out of centralism in Paris. Our group will be extremely demanding on this point. Let us not push gold on other lands! Let's live up to it! Let's be COP 21 of gold mining!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u167	Mr Lenaïck Adam has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u168	Continue to fool: this is the aim sought by the instigators of this debate. Intellectual dishonesty, demagogy, manipulation: these are the ingredients that will be used by some speakers to show that they have become fervent defenders of the Guyanese environment. That's what I call entertainment activism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u169	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u170	Guyana, once green hell, good to receive only bagnards – or today jihadists, for our colleague Dupont-Aignan – is now the green paradise that must be put under bells. All means are good for systematically opposing any attempt at industrial exploitation. The means used today is the prohibition of cyanide, through a motion for a resolution that ignores all the expertise of renowned French organizations. Colleagues, have you read the reports of the BRGM – Bureau de recherches géologiques et mining – and of INERIS on the use of cyanide in the processing of gold ores in Guyana? Certainly not, for many of you who prefer to rewrite the various reports sponsored by environmental activists. I would remind you that we are all lay people on this subject and that we should be careful. It's time for intellectual honesty. Minister of State, if you consider that the European directives that organise waste management in the extractive industry are insufficient, tell us! I recall that in 2017 the European Commission rejected a request for a complete ban on the use of cyanide. Similarly, if you judge your administration and environmental controllers to be insufficiently qualified, tell us! If the more than 1200 French sites classified Seveso handling substances dangerous to man and the environment must close as a precaution, tell us! Finally, tell us frankly if we are wasting our time thinking about the exploitation of the gold resource in Guyana and how to make Guyana and the Guyanans benefit from the fallout of gold! For my part, I am not opposed to reliable legislation to structure and regulate the gold industry. On the contrary, if the mining code is to be updated, it is necessary to begin with. But relying solely on State subsidies, which are becoming increasingly scarce, is to condemn Guyana to remain in total dependence. In addition, Guyanans want to move forward on the statutory issue, have more autonomy and exercise more skills. However, a territory that tends towards autonomy cannot remain in the carcan of the counter economy. It is clear that autonomy and control of natural resources go hand in hand. New Caledonia, a French territory with full autonomy, is an example of this with nickel: the northern part of the island was devastated, as was the western part of Guyana, and the Kanaks made the choice of nickel, although they were also very respectful of their environment. So, Mr. Minister of State, why wouldn't what was good for New Caledonia be good for Guyana? Is it not time for the Government to position itself on the issue of gold mining, both industrial and artisanal, because our local artisans are slowly disappearing? I am the Member of Parliament for an electoral district where there are many important gold sites, including the Gold Mountain Project. In Saint-Laurent-du-Maroni, the capital of this electoral district, more than 70% of the working-age population is inactive. We have to provide them with work, right now, not in ten years with hypothetical unfunded projects. We are not saying that gold activity is intended to absorb all the misery of Guyana, but it must contribute to it, since it exists at home. Some of my colleagues are now very quick to step up to the niche against gold mining. I want to say to the people of Guyana that sometimes it is the same colleagues who vote against us when it comes to making available to Guyana the funds that I ask for to help it catch up with the hexagon. I solemnly say, I am not the defender of the Golden Mountain. At present, there are no records, either in the prefecture or in other State departments. In due course, the proponents of this project will file a file, which may be accepted or rejected. For my part, I defend the right of every Guyanan to exploit the mineral wealth of his country, with respect for our environment. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond the project we are discussing, the essential question is: Mr. Minister of State, is France for the prohibition or supervision of gold activity in Guyana? I ask you to remember this question: it is essential to move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u171	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u172	I take advantage of this debate, on which I confess that I have no very in-depth opinion, to put three questions to the Government. First of all, Minister of State, what about the reform of the mining code? In 2012, Arnaud Montebourg, then Minister of Economy, Productive Recovery and Digital Affairs, had wished to initiate a reform of the mining code by clearly affirming the ambition to see France "become a country in which mines can be mined again". This reform included four main areas: strengthening public participation – it is clear how necessary this is in this type of procedure – ensuring better consideration of environmental issues – the mining code dating back to 1810 is obviously a necessity – improving legal certainty for holders of mining titles, and simplifying procedures. A mission had been entrusted to Mr Tuot, State Councillor, which resulted in a bill tabled by the Socialist Group and adopted at first reading in the National Assembly in January 2017. Does the Government intend to continue this reform? Let me turn to my second question: beyond the law, what is the Government's ambition in terms of mining policy? In 2013, the same Arnaud Montebourg had imagined, in a spirit of economic patriotism, the creation of a national mining company in France in order to prevent foreign operators, Russian or Canadian, being the only ones to exploit the wealth of our basement. Unfortunately, this project was abandoned in 2015 by his successor, Emmanuel Macron. Most recently, on 22 January 2019, the Economic, Social and Environmental Council issued a notice calling for the affirmation of a strong national policy to make our industry less dependent on mining strategic raw materials. This report, of course, calls for the development of the circular economy in order to better recover precious materials, but also calls not to consider the revival of mining as a taboo. The third point is that, with the Gold Mountain project, ecological concerns dominate and are required in the debate. Of course, France and the European Union already have the most stringent system in the world for the use of cyanide, with a residual maximum threshold of 10 millionths in gold – this does not seem to be an extremely large quantity. But should we not be more prescriptive about operating methods and practices? This leads me to question you, Minister of State, about the "Responsible Mine" initiative launched in 2015 by Emmanuel Macron, which was to lead to a white paper and a label. If we want to be able to further develop mining projects in this country tomorrow, it is necessary to include them in a totally responsible approach: is this ambition buried or is it still defended by your government?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u173	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u174	At the initiative of Gabriel Serville and the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, we are today invited to discuss a matter a few thousand kilometres away from the capital; a matter to which national representation cannot remain indifferent. The Montagne d'Or is the story of a territory where many indicators testify to the high economic precariousness in which the nearly 288,000 people who have taken up residence there are plunged: illiteracy rate at 20%, unemployment rate at 21.5%. It is the story of a territory rich in precious minerals that is coveted by foreign mining companies. This is the story of a local population to which these same companies promise mountains and wonders, as long as they are allowed to exploit the natural resources of their soils. Despite these promises and the legitimate aspiration of our Guyanese friends to live better, 69% opposed the Gold Mountain project in an FIFG survey. The history of the Golden Mountain, they just don't want it. Why? Because they felt that the price to be paid was far too important in terms of the benefits they could derive from it. This price to pay, what is it? In addition to the hectares of deforestation, this is the serious risk to the environment caused by the massive use of cyanide to extract gold in Guyana. Of course, the mining industry has been using this process since 1888 and significant progress has been made since then. But let us return for a moment to two important events that took place in the 2000s. The first is that of Baia Mare, Romania: on 30 January 2000, the rupture of a mining dam resulted in what has been called the worst ecological disaster since Chernobyl, with tons of cyanide pouring into the Tisza and Danube. The second took place recently and it is in all memory: on January 25, 2019, in Brumadinho, Brazil, the rupture of a dam led to the dumping into nature of tons of mining waste. Human and environmental tragedies, these events remind us of how long the road is before we manage to reconcile perfectly economic development with ecological imperatives. And yet, there is one way that seems to be preferable to any other: that of precaution. Others have already committed themselves, such as Germany in 2002, the Czech Republic, Costa Rica, Turkey and Hungary, who were the first to ban the use of cyanide in the mining industry. Whatever the constraints foreseen at European level, they will never be as effective as a pure and simple ban, accompanied by the continuation of research and development aimed at perfecting extraction technologies taking account of the ecological imperative. As the President of the Republic has stated recently, we cannot afford to launch a project that does not meet environmental standards. Because this is the priority: the environment! [[Mr. Lenaïck Adam applauds]] The question we have to deal with today is that of the general interest against the particular interests: we must determine what the former commands us to do when the latter neglects it. The Democratic and Related Movement Group is not in principle opposed to any mining project. It considered, however, that it was not conceivable that these holdings should be carried out to the detriment of nature, biodiversity and its preservation, in the sole interest of a minority. The risks associated with the massive use of cyanide in the mining industry are real. They are such that national representation would bear an immense responsibility for the present and future generations if it did not seize the opportunity given to it today to send this strong message to all: the priority is the general interest; The priority is the environment! This is the conclusion reached by the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. Therefore, beyond this debate, its members wish to join the alert launched by Gabriel Serville and the GDR Group. We know the vigilance of the President of the Republic and the Government in this regard. It seems to us important that, on such a subject more than on any other, national representation speaks with one voice, in the name of its responsibility to represent the people in the best of its interests and, in this case, in the interests of the local populations faced with the serious risk of cyanide spilling into nature. [[Applause on several benches of MODEM, LaREM and GDR groups]] Let us not wait for such a risk to occur in France to act. Let us not be right for those who think and write, among the shareholders of the Montagne d'Or project, that the time of the French politicians is so long that they will have reached their ends before we even acted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u175	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u176	First of all, I would like to thank Gabriel Serville and his group from the Democratic and Republican Left for giving us the opportunity to discuss this fundamental project, not only for Guyana and its inhabitants but for the entire nation. Indeed, beyond the matter itself, we believe that the gold mining project of the Montagne d'Or raises the question of the essential principles that must govern these megaprojects. The first principle, which is most obvious to us, is the one which dictates that no project can be carried out without the knowledge or against the territory which is intended to receive it. The inhabitants of Guyana had the opportunity to express themselves between March and July 2018 on the Montagne d'Or project, as part of the public debate organized by the national commission for public debate, an independent administrative authority guaranteeing the sincerity of the latter. The vast majority of participants expressed their opposition to the project as presented to them, highlighting economic, social and environmental considerations as well as the protection of the rights of indigenous, Amerindian and Bushinengued peoples. On this particular issue, the CNDP report notes that the project's supporters, elected and economic actors, have sought to discredit the words of these people. The contractor had knowingly refused to attend a meeting with the customary chiefs in Village Pierre. Such attitudes cannot be tolerated in the Republic. The second principle is respect for France's national legislation and international commitments. The operation of the Montagne d'Or mine will require the use of 57000 tonnes of ammonium nitrate explosives, 46500 tonnes of cyanide, which is the weight of nearly five Eiffel Towers, and 142 million litres of fuel oil, for the twelve years of the project. The geography and climate of Guyana also make the risk of spreading these pollutants throughout the country very high. There is no doubt that this project is in violent contradiction with the commitments contained both in the Paris climate agreement and in the Nagoya Protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use. As part of the debate he held with the ultramarine elected officials on 1 February, the President of the Republic himself acknowledged this: "This project [...] must be at the best environmental standards. At this stage, what goes back to this project is not at the right level on this point. We cannot afford to launch a project that would destroy biodiversity. » In addition to these principles of social, environmental and democratic acceptability, there is an underlying principle of respect for development guidelines. Indeed, it is for the nation to define, in framework laws, the economic and scientific fields that it opens up for development, and under what conditions. In the case of the Golden Mountain, I am obviously referring to the framework that the mining code must represent and to the issues that remain unsettled. Should we continue mining in our country? Should we exploit gold mines or only alluvial gold? Should exploitation be controlled by public actors? What operating techniques are considered acceptable? What conditions of employment and economic benefits are expected? The reform of the mining code was announced by the Government six years ago under the 13th legislature. On April 22, 2011, the minister of ecology, Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, commissioned lawyer Arnaud Gossement to submit a report on the reform of mining law, which was submitted on October 12 of the same year. On 14 February 2013, Jean-Marc Ayrault, then Prime Minister, entrusted Thierry Tuot, the State Councillor, with the task of reforming the mining code according to the principles presented by Delphine Batho, then Minister of Ecology. A working group had been set up under its auspices to bring stakeholders together, and the outcome of the working group had been submitted to the Government in December 2013. Announced for the spring of 2014 by Philippe Martin and Arnaud Montebourg, then for the summer of 2014 by Ségolène Royal, and finally for the autumn of 2014 by Arnaud Montebourg, the tabling of the bill resulting from the work of the Tuot commission has been constantly postponed. In 2016, Emmanuel Macron, then Minister of Economy, announced to the working group of the Committee on Sustainable Development that the text was ready, but it was never tabled. Under the leadership of Jean-Paul Chanteguet, to whom I wish to pay a vibrant tribute, a bill adapting the mining code to environmental law had been tabled and was adopted at first reading by the National Assembly on January 25, 2017. Unfortunately, the proximity of the presidential and legislative deadlines has put a brake on this work. So my question is simple, Minister of State: when will you put this work back on the agenda? As it stands, it must be noted that the Gold Mountain project does not check any of the boxes in the list of principles that are dear to us. The Socialist and related deputies therefore consider that the conditions for the acceptability of this project as it exists are not met and that it is up to us, together with the Government, to undertake a genuine prior reform of the mining code, on the basis of the work carried out during the previous legislature. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and MODEM groups]] Thomas Mann wrote in The Magic Mountain: "One never wants only his destiny. The Golden Mountain has nothing of a magical mountain and is certainly not the destiny of Guyana.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u177	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u178	Since the beginning, all the ingredients were gathered to make the project of the industrial gold mine known as the Golden Mountain a project conducive to debate, I dare say to a debate of the twenty-first century. The Montagne d'Or promises a lot of jobs: 750 direct and 3000 indirect jobs, of which 90% are local jobs – at least that's how it is presented. But it is also 782 million euros of investment, 54 million tons of ores extracted, and 800 hectares of land mobilized. We immediately see the dilemma facing all of us, between on the one hand the economic and development interests of this project, in a very difficult territory, and on the other hand its ecological footprint. We have to debate this in order to help those who will have to decide. It is not obvious, and we are all aware of the difficulty of the choice that will have to be made. But we also have a responsibility to the history of Guyana. This, I say very frankly, has already been exploited: what has been the impact of France's and Europe's space firing base on Guyana? Are we going to persevere in this way with big projects that do not bring much to this territory? These are all the issues that we in the IDU Group have tried to identify. I would like to associate my colleagues Sophie Auconia, Olivier Becht and Frédérique Dumas, with whom we discussed at length and met with different colleagues, different parties to refine our reasoning. Our reflection revolves around three main elements. The first is an ecological element. I will not go back to the figures that have been quoted, if not to recall that the activity itself will use 460,000 litres of raw water per hour, with many impacts on biodiversity, and will destroy more than 1500 hectares of primary forest. We can reflect on this subject, but the opinion that we are most interested in is that of the Guyanans. How do they perceive this project? How do they judge him? That has been said by the previous speaker, they have had the opportunity to speak, and it must be recognized that they seem to the vast majority to be rather unfavourable, or at least dissatisfied. The second question is the health risks of the metals to be used. We saw him last week again with the grave accident that cost the lives of many people in a territory very close to Guyana. We have asked ourselves the question of alternative methods, because of course the draft as it stands would respect the law, but can we satisfy ourselves with it? However, there are alternative technologies, but they are said to have lost 30% of the turnover expected by the consortium responsible for the project. It seems to me that this debate should allow us to ask these questions from all angles: the economic angle of course, given the particular situation in Guyana, but also the ecological angle, which cannot be forgotten. We are not specialists, but from what we know, there are significant risks, and we cannot leave it there. As it stands, the project is unsatisfactory for the IDU-Agir group. It must be more environmentally demanding. Is there an alternative solution, Minister of State? Can we do otherwise? As the President of the Republic himself said last week, we cannot launch a project that could destroy biodiversity and that would not comply with environmental standards, all the less, he added, because job creation is uncertain: even in terms of economic benefits, this project is not necessarily convincing! Whatever decision will be made, Minister of State, the Guyanans will have to be involved. That is the reason for our debate today. It seems to me that the most important thing is to respect Guyana's opinion. Seventy-two per cent of Guyanans said that the project could not be without the agreement of indigenous peoples. [[Applause on several benches of MODEM, LaREM and GDR groups]] Today, people have become aware of their ability to destroy biodiversity and communities legitimately demand the right to differentiation, the right to be involved in decisions. They express their need for citizen participation. That is why the debate on the Golden Mountain is a debate of the twenty-first century. We need to be able to carry it out with the people of Guyana to and for the time being, in our view, this project does not meet those expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u179	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u180	I wanted to begin my remarks by welcoming the work of Gabriel Serville, who allows us to have this discussion today and whose motion for a resolution I signed calling for a ban on the use of cyanide in the mining industry. I am speaking today to all Members committed to the democratic principle, because it is from democracy that we need to discuss the disastrous ecological and social project of the Golden Mountain in Guyana. The President of the Republic has repeatedly declared his support for the project. So this is a self-proclaimed Champion of the Earth who supported the construction of an open-pit mine endangering 1500 hectares of tropical forest without even waiting for the results of the consultation led by the national commission for public debate. Will your government have the impudence to attack the Amazon? As if you don't know the decisive importance of this forest to mitigate climate change! I don't know which fly stole Emmanuel Macron to support such a project, which would require 8.5% of Guyana's electricity consumption, as well as 140,000 litres of water and 142 million litres of fuel. Why support a project that will threaten 127 protected animal and plant species, due to the use of 57,000 tons of explosives and 46500 tons of cyanide? Unfortunately, one hypothesis can always be formulated: when investments of such magnitude are to be made, there is on the one hand the party of people, on the other the one of money, nature against your gildings, the general interest against the profit of multinationals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u181	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u182	It must be said that many have chosen their party for a long time. It is the interests of money that guide those who support this delusional project, fought firmly by the majority of Guyanans. Our fellow citizens of Guyana are right to fight the Golden Mountain. There is no economic need to set up this open pit mine. Last November, the consulting firm Deloitte, which will not be suspected here of revolutionary purposes, published a report on Guyana's economic development. Its conclusions focus on the self-sustaining economic development of the Territory. It calls for the development of renewable energy, agriculture and fisheries in order to double the capacity of the internal market. No trace of the Golden Mountain in this text... [[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I hope you will spare us the bogus arguments on the choice between economy and environment, "necessary but difficult", "costy but demanding courage" and other inepties. Ladies and gentlemen, if political thinking still has a place in this House, I urge you to give serious thought to the ecological question in its entirety.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u183	Luckily you're here to raise the level! What an arrogance!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u184	If the level of destruction in our communities is as great as expected, if we do not change the current dynamics, then the small apothecary calculations on economic development will seem quite laughable. Destroy the Amazonian forest and softly criticize Bolsonaro while inviting it to the summit of Davos: this is the blindness that reigns today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u186	With the terms specific to his culture, this is what a yanomami shaman said about 30 years ago: "The shamans will be unable to repel the epidemic smokes that devour us. They will no longer be able to contain evil beings that will turn the forest into chaos. Then we will die one after another and the whites as much as we do. All shamans will eventually perish. So if none of them survive to hold him, the sky will collapse. » This may make some laugh, but climate and biodiversity specialists are not far from the same conclusions today, with our words and our modern reason. Yet you do not hear one or the other. The construction of an open-pit mine should not be debated today: it is a project of another century, which must obviously be abandoned. France does not need it. On the contrary, Guyana must be a French laboratory of jobs for biodiversity, which they will be sustainable, and of the ecological transition as a whole. It is in these terms that we must ask the democratic question: why impose a project of which no one wants and which is of absolute archaism? The indigenous peoples of Guyana stand up against this obvious injustice. They defend their ancestral territories, and with them universal humanity. Free, informed and a priori consultation of indigenous peoples on any major project is a legal obligation enshrined in International Labour Organization Convention 169 on Indigenous and Tribal Peoples. France must sign and ratify this treaty. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Hear this idea, articulated in our time, rather than continuing to lock yourself in the void of old extremist projects. Democracy is nothing, Mr Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, without the land that makes our lives possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u187	The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u188	This morning we are debating the Golden Mountain, a gold mining project in Guyana. Everyone has understood this, if only to hear the speakers before me, it is a controversial project, some supporting it and others opposing it, both in Guyana and here in the National Assembly. The issues are important, both environmentally and economically, socially and territorially. There is no question of considering in advance that such an issue should take precedence over the others. From this point of view I have heard words quite far from reality. Mrs Panot, you have given the President of the Republic or other political leaders statements that do not correspond to reality. However, Mrs Maina Sage recalled just before your speech, but you probably did not listen to her, which was said last Friday in front of hundreds of witnesses, elected from overseas. I therefore propose to go back to the facts and to try to move forward together, in any case those who wish to move forward and not simply to argue, on the delicate, complicated and not dated issue of the "Gold Mountain" project of gold exploitation in Guyana, or more precisely the different forms of gold exploitation in Guyana. I must admit that I am a little surprised that we are talking about only one form of exploitation, the problems it poses and the risks it entails, which are very real, keeping silence on others. I understand what is said about cyanide, and I know that some Members are willing to prohibit its use in the exploitation of gold. But they don't say anything about mercury, yet it's more toxic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u190	Its use is already forbidden!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u191	It was because of the problems posed by mercury that cyanide was substituted for it. If that is not said, let us be clear, it is because today mercury is used on a large scale, by several hundred operators, in another form.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u192	I said it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u193	I hope that we will try to solve all the problems and get out of a situation which is not satisfactory, but I do not oppose such a project to any other. It would be completely stupid to think that the Gold Mountain project would put an end to the clandestine gold-plating, and no one claimed it. The fight against illegal gold mining continues, but legal gold mining and artisanal gold mining are not without problems, particularly environmental ones. I would now like to tell you concretely what is the status of this Gold Mountain project. At this stage, from the legal, administrative, procedural point of view, this project does not exist. There is an intention, a project leader, but the latter has not yet initiated a procedure. Montagne d'or has a mining title, the terms of which are those in effect under the mining code, which makes this renewal automatic. This is a legal reality which, in my view, is not satisfactory and which illustrates the obsolete nature of our mining code in many areas. We have inherited this situation. Both Mr Bouillon of the Socialist Group and Mr Marleix of the LR Group recalled the attempts to reform the mining code, which had not yet been completed. You know that, Mrs. Batho, since you opened this building in 2012, when you were Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u194	I've been dismissed, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u195	Even Mr Chanteguet's bill did not go beyond the stage of its adoption at first reading. The Montagne d'Or company will have to submit several applications for work authorization if it wishes to make the project a reality, which it intends to do, but at the time I speak to you, these procedures have not been initiated. As Minister of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition responsible for these issues, I have not received any applications for authorization or impact assessments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u196	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u197	We are therefore obliged to assess the stakes based on the declarations of intent of the project leader, which, it is obvious, is unprecedented by its scale in Guyana – there are other gold farms in the world that are much more important. This is an open-pit industrial gold mine project with an area of about 800 hectares. In this connection, I invite the speakers to avoid a little easy comparisons: I ended up losing myself, between the Stade de France and the Eiffel Tower! Of course, they strike the spirits, but I will give you even more telling figures. Let's keep a sense of measure! This 800-hectare site is located between two mountains of exceptional biodiversity, in French Guiana and therefore in France, which are classified as an integral biological reserve. It is home to hundreds of animal and plant species, some of which are protected, and the conservation stakes are undoubtedly considerable. It also contains water resources, two of which are reported under the Framework Directive on the protection of water resources. The stakes are major in terms of management of industrial risks, two of which are of particular interest to me: the risk of acidic mining drainage and the risk of rupture of a tailings pond – some of you have reminded us, the dramatic accident that has just taken place in Brazil shows that such a risk is very real and must be taken very seriously: it is neither fantasies nor an infinitesimal risk. The risk of dike rupture is extremely high. Our law provides for a number of measures with regard to all these impacts, to which I believe that we will have to return. The logic of biodiversity protection was defined in the law in 2016: "avoid, reduce, compensate", to ensure the best protection. Whether it is risk or biodiversity, I know from experience that addressing the issues requires absolute vigilance from the minister responsible for these issues, in this case myself today. I will therefore exercise absolute vigilance in this respect and I will not give in, it must be very clear. These are not things that can be swept away by a turn of the hand, and this Government, it is very clear, does not do so. This project also covers important economic and social issues for the territory of Guyana. I will not go back to all the challenges facing Guyana, everyone has them in mind: strong population growth, due to a large birth and sometimes unregulated and illegal immigration, training, employment, level of unemployment, economic development, security. All these challenges are extremely important and the exploitation of gold, whether legal or illegal, or industrial, is among them, no one can deny it. These challenges must also be addressed in a cross-cutting manner. The report commissioned by the WWF association to the Deloitte firm, on which I have already had the opportunity to look, provides an interesting insight. Mining, as I said, has been part of the local economic landscape for a very long time, if not always. We cannot ignore this component, nor, again, sweep it with a back of our hand. I think I can say – but perhaps a voice will rise to deny, among the local and national politicians of this assembly – that no one calls for a total ban on gold mining, despite the environmental problems it poses. I've heard a few associations go so far, and again... I therefore believe that it is our collective responsibility to create and adopt a clear, secure framework on this sensitive and particular issue. It is therefore the question of the mining code, which I wish to reform, that is being asked. Today, from an economic and social point of view, you probably know, Montagne d'Or estimates that the project would create 750 direct jobs, 90% of which would be occupied by local workers. It is also a subject of debate, particularly raised by associations. At this stage, it is difficult to validate or invalidate this figure, but the inspection report commissioned by three ministries – the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Ministry of Overseas Affairs – will soon be returned. At the time, I was not a minister, but the continuity of the work is there and I assure you that this report will also shed light on this point, since it is an external look, not that of the project leader. Finally, it must be said, this project is singular because of the challenge and tensions that it has aroused locally, but also nationally, because of its symbolic dimension. The public debate that took place in the spring of 2018 was extremely tense and raised many fundamental issues, both environmental and acceptability by local people. The elected representatives of the Guyanese community also took a stand. They seem to be very much in favour of the project, but have also asked for guarantees of safety and the environment. Some elected representatives also expressed their reservations or their frank opposition – I heard MP Serville's comments earlier, we have already discussed them together – but also indigenous communities and local or national associations. Despite these numerous questions and challenges, Montagne d'Or confirmed its intention to continue its project on 26 November, with modifications on which, at this stage, we do not have any details other than a placard with simple intentions. It is therefore up to us to grasp this project in all these dimensions and I propose to set a framework, a method and a timetable. The framework has been outlined by the President of the Republic, who has spoken on this project three times since he took office: during his visit to Guyana, during the overseas sieges and, more recently, during the meeting with the ultramarine elected representatives in the framework of the great national debate last week at the Elysée. The President made it clear. The project will be subject to three criteria: environmental example, democratic acceptability and economic and social benefits to the territory. As it stands, as the President said last Friday, the project is "not at the level" – I could elaborate on its point, but that is a good summary. The steps I have taken lead me to say exactly the same thing: this project is not at the level, especially as regards environmental exemplaryness. The question of acceptability and impact is of course subject to debate and questioning. The method, to which I am particularly attached, is that of dialogue with the actors of the territory to define an informed position based on all the expertise produced. Since September, I have not only taken note of the conclusions of the report submitted by the national commission for public debate, but also received individually the president of the territorial community of Guyana, the four Guyanese parliamentarians, deputies and senators, as well as the local and national associations opposed to the project and the prefect of Guyana so that each one of them could give me his point of view and give me his arguments. In the coming days, a joint inspection report will be issued, as I said, on gold activity, its environmental impacts and its economic benefits. Finally, I will shortly go to Guyana to see on the ground the stakes, expectations, reservations, oppositions, of course, and to meet a number of actors that I have not been able to see in Paris, especially the great customary council. At the end of this trip, on the horizon of this semester, I will have to take a position on behalf of the Government. I will do so as Minister of Ecology, guarantor of environmental demand and safety, and as a member of the Government guaranteeing respect for the Territory, its inhabitants and its elected representatives. I would also like this dossier to be an opportunity to take a broader look at the mining activity in Guyana and the legal framework that governs it, i.e. the mining code, which I have already mentioned. [[Rires on the benches of the LaREM group]] The problems posed by this project must enable us to take a new step forward. We need to be clear on several issues: are we in favour of gold mining in Guyana or not? In what form, under what conditions? Do we want to pull up all forms of gold mining? The State services are obviously fighting those which are prohibited, illegal ordealing, and we must also ask ourselves whether additional legal or material means should be provided. But as far as legal farms are concerned, we need to think about how to get them all up from an environmental point of view. I would like to say this because, over the last ten years, 27122 hectares have been deforested as a result of the gold-plating activity, with its current techniques. In football field units, Mr. Serville, that corresponds to 37300.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u198	Scary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u199	Let it be clear, it is not a question of saying that, as it is already a lot, we can add to it! Let us understand, however, the issues at stake. This debate is national. I am well aware that strong images can be mentioned, which can easily and legitimately scare the French, but our responsibility, in an assembly where all the points of view are expressed, including that of the Government, is to consider the problem in its entirety by trying to find solutions which, once again, enable Guyana to find economic activities and to protect its particularly rich and valuable environment, that of a territory far from our country but which is an integral part of our policy of protecting biodiversity, the environment and the inhabitants from risks. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is the strategy I am proposing in the face of this gold mining project in Guyana.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u200	We come to the questions. Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u201	Much has been said this morning on this issue. As you understand, your political decision will be crucial and meaningful. On the one hand, we have a French territory, let us say, far from the eyes and far from the heart of the vast majority of our fellow citizens, it is a reality. A territory often considered forgotten, which is true, where the population is suffering from the worst economic and social difficulties and for a part of which any job creation project can be a breath of oxygen in the short term – but with no effect in the long term in the case of the extractive sector, as the study by Deloitte shows. On the other hand, there are men and women who live in the heart of a territory of memory, cultural and heritage wealth among the densest and most remarkable on the planet. In short, a pool of the real living. This is where Guyanans, at least a majority of them, identify their path to economic and social development. This is where the Government, in the realization of a high priority, could decide in favour of sustainable development and against what should be called predatory and short-term capitalism. I have recently read that until recently, scientists had not been able to identify the archaeological remains of the remarkable fields of food crops on the hill of the pre-Columbian peasants: to do so, an aerial exploration had to be carried out. Minister of State, let's take a step up and avoid this huge extraction to preserve the land of Guyana for the benefit of the men and women from there and here – who are ultimately the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u202	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u203	Mr President, your question of a general nature allows me to mention a contradiction that is often found – I am sure you would have many examples in your own election territory – between two imperatives that we must reconcile, namely, on the one hand economic activity, which is carried out in the service of the human person – in short, human activity, for in fact, and even for those who proclaim "the human first! Humans need to work to live –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u204	Without a forest, they can't either.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u205	... and on the other hand, the protection of the environment. This conciliation is precisely the subject of the concept of sustainable development. I am systematically tasked with trying to reconcile economics and ecology. It is never easy, but it must be recognized that with this project Montagne d'Or, with the exploitation of gold in Guyana, we are at the heart of this contradiction and that the task is therefore particularly difficult.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u206	That's clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u207	We must be fully aware of this. It can always be said that the exploitation of gold is an activity carried out by capitalist and predatory global companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u208	We can say that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u209	But we must not lose sight of the fact that 90% of gold is used in jewellery manufacturing. I do not know if, among you, many people are determined not to wear any gold jewel anymore, but it is this use essentially that makes gold rare and precious; This is why some people are willing to look for it even if it is complicated, even if the problems in terms of safety and the environment are considerable. What I am telling you today is that if it proves impossible to reconcile the two imperatives that I have mentioned, at some point it will have to be decided. That is what we will soon have to do about the file of the Golden Mountain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u210	Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebari has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u211	Minister of State, you have pointed out all the issues involved in a project that represents both a socio-economic opportunity and significant environmental risks and raises the question of its social acceptability. I have a technical question that relates to the mode of operation envisaged. You've already talked about cyanide and mercury. I know that the trail of other substitutes could be explored, including calcium or sodium thiosulfate, and I would like to know if your services or yourself have engaged in a dialogue on this point with the project leaders of the Montagne d'Or company. If so, has the economic sustainability of the project thus amended been studied?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u212	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u213	I did not have the opportunity to discuss directly with the project leader, but I will do so if he so requests, since I have taken the side of talking to everyone. For the time being, I have already received elected representatives and associations from both sides. To answer your technical question, without being a specialist in chemistry or gold mining, I would remind you that cyanide is used for mining, as well as for other industrial applications, as a substitute for mercury. The release of mercury into the environment is indeed very harmful not only to flora and fauna, but also to humans. At other times, for example, we have discussed in this House the problems posed by the presence of dental mercury waste in wastewater, which cannot be treated. Gold farmers consider that there is no valid substitute for cyanide and mercury. They are based on studies by the Bureau of Geological and Mining Research and other public institutes, which cannot be suspected of being in the pay of "predatory capitalism" and which carry out their work with complete objectivity and independence. I have in my possession a summary table summarizing the various products that can be implemented as well as their supposed effectiveness – which, for gold, is not yet demonstrated. The research must continue, and if the project were to succeed, it could only be done with appropriate safety techniques. The cyanide would obviously be used in a closed circuit, without releases to the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u214	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u215	I would like to point out that the use of mercury results in many environmental pollution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u216	Mrs Frédérique Tuffnell has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u217	Without going back to the measurement of the figures, we still have to keep in mind the magnitude of the project: a 2.5-kilometre-long and 400-metre-wide pit, on an area of 1500 hectares of primary forest where more than 2000 animal and plant species, including many protected species, evolve. In view of these elements, the risks posed by the Golden Mountain to local populations, their health, water resources and biodiversity are well understood. As for the risks associated with the use of cyanide, the pollution of groundwater and the disastrous consequences for life would be a reality that could affect Guyana for decades to come. While this territory currently benefits from exceptional natural resources, including water and wood, and has one of the best preserved biodiversity in the world, it faces a 22 per cent unemployment rate, 46 per cent of which is among young people: Guyana therefore desperately needs solutions. Minister of State, I have heard you, but I insist: do you think it is utopian to consider another project, more respectful of the environment and its biological diversity, in the spirit of the principle of "avoid, reduce, compensate"? A more virtuous project, which would foresee the use of sodium thiosulfate as an alternative to cyanide? An equally more ambitious project, which would prefigure the structuring of a gold-rich sector providing employment and wealth for Guyana and which would help to combat the scourge of mercury and illegal orpainting? [[Ms. Sandra Marsaud applauds]] In all cases, investment in extractive industries should not limit the development of sustainable local sectors with high added value such as wood, renewable energy, sustainable agriculture and aquaculture, or the social and solidarity economy. It is our responsibility to explore these avenues in consultation with the Guyanans, for a sustainable future for Guyana.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u218	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u219	Madam Member, I take this opportunity to commend your commitment and your work on biodiversity in general and wetlands in particular – what you call "waterlands". From this point of view, Guyana is obviously a territory of particular interest because of the exceptional richness of the Amazonian forest, particularly in terms of biodiversity – which, in return, imposes extremely strong constraints on any human activity in this environment. I agree with you that, in such a territory, we must seek to implement activities that take advantage of the resources present without destroying them, if possible in the context of sustainable management. I would like to remind you that, as far as gold is concerned, certain current methods of exploitation, which are not industrial, cause considerable damage to the environment: the land is deforested, and especially the forest does not grow there. If that is not what we are talking about today, it is a major issue that will have to be addressed. As you said, various reports have highlighted the potential of the resources available in Guyana: I am thinking of wood, and biomass in general. We are working, within the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, but also with the Ministry of Overseas Affairs, to determine whether a sustainable and forest-friendly sector could make it possible to exploit these resources, particularly for energy production – an approach that would be intended to apply to other French overseas territories, particularly in the West Indies. Finally, the question of fisheries must also be asked, since the players in the sector themselves recognise that the organisation of this sector in Guyana is far from optimal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u220	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u221	Minister of State, I asked you three questions in my first speech. With regard to the second, on the Government's ambition, I note with interest that you do not give up any mining project on an ideological basis. On the other hand, in coming to my question on the reform of the mining code, you raised at the same time other important issues, such as the exploitation of hydrocarbons, which means that I did not really get an answer. However, in terms of public debate, environmental protection, security of title and simplification of procedures, the reform of the mining code that had been initiated seemed to allow for interesting progress. Can you tell us whether this is an impasse, or whether the Government intends to follow up on it? With regard to the "Responsible Mine" initiative launched by Emmanuel Macron in 2015 while he was Minister of Economy – an ambitious approach, already based on the philosophy of "at the same time" – we remember that discussions with environmental associations had not been very fruitful. Do you intend to restart these discussions, or do you prefer a case-by-case approach? In any event, the idea of a "responsible mine" label issued by the State seems to me to be an interesting step.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u222	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u223	As far as the reform of the mining code is concerned, we are not going to start from scratch: we will resume the work that has been carried out in recent years. The departments of my department, which is responsible for this jurisdiction, have already begun to do so: if there is not a piecemeal bill at the moment, we are not leaving much of a problem. For my part, I hope that the Members concerned will be involved in this upstream work, that is, in the coming weeks, because we know that it will not be simple and that the dossier will raise a large number of questions, but also oppositions. However, I know from experience that the existence of crumbling points on the territory, even in a single mining operation, whether gold in Guyana or other resources elsewhere, can lead to widespread opposition to the reform, which would lead to the maintenance of a mining code, although everyone would consider it obsolete. To get out of this case from the top, we will have to go not only through the previous work that I mentioned, but also to be able to demonstrate, in different groups, a spirit of responsibility, to prevent the debate from turning into a general confrontation on the issue of mines – all this knowing that the problem of gas and shale oil, which has been controversial for ten years, has been solved by the law that my predecessor had adopted by the end of 2017. These two subjects will no longer be telescoped. We are no longer in the logic that prevailed at the time when Arnaud Montebourg was minister of productive recovery, and that was to convince the French that we were going to straighten the mines, as if France were going to become a great country of mining again. However, we also do not intend to oppose any mining. These activities must be framed and accompanied by guarantees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u224	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u225	Earlier in the morning, Bruno Millienne reminded you, in a clear and unrelenting presentation: today, in 2019, at a time when global warming is accelerating, where extreme temperatures on both sides of the globe are worrying, our responsibility is complete. Every choice, every decision must be motivated by concern for environmental interests. The Montagne d'Or project has been unleashing passions for several months already, quite rightly. Successively, in December 2017, then last July, I asked you about this, recalling that no economic solution can save our planet if we do not really act for its protection. I am not the only one who has done so, and I thank Gabriel Serville for his commitment and determination, which allow us today to debate in the Chamber. My question does not directly concern the environmental issue, but the democratic issue that slips between the lines: what about the decision to adopt the Montagne d'Or project? According to an FIFG survey, 81% of Guyanans consider it to pose a significant risk to the environment and 69% oppose it. Two petitions against the industrial project collect 384,000 signatures for one, 114000 for the other. While we should welcome the organisation of a public debate, which took place from 7 March to 7 July 2018, this initiative does not mean that the local population is committed to it, nor does it mean that it is opposed to it. [[Ms. Delphine Batho applauds]] Last January, the United Nations, through the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, urged France to consider the views of the indigenous peoples opposed to this issue. The UN Committee believes that the Montagne d'Or project violates the rights of the indigenous peoples of French Guiana, who are protected by the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u226	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u227	Given the seriousness of these statements, but also the need for listening and dialogue, our country must act with respect for our democratic values. While, in the hexagon and our ultramarine territories, the crisis of yellow vests has highlighted the need to co-build a new social pact, the Gold Mountain project cannot come into being without the approval of the local population, the first concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u228	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u229	[[Ms. Maina Sage applauds]] Does the Government envisage resorting to the local referendum on the adoption of the Gold Mountain mining industrial project, so that the people, sovereign, can be part of their future?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u230	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u231	You are right to ask the question of the democratic issue, because we see that it is not possible here to provide an answer that is acceptable to all. The problem is found quite often and it seems to me that this should be one of the subjects of the great national debate. The majority of the elected members of the community, who can be considered legitimate because they have been elected, are in favour of the project. The National Commission for Public Debate had the greatest difficulty in organizing the debate, as the oppositions were lively, strong, and even prevented each other from speaking out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u232	But the majority of opinions were against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u233	It was a very painful moment, but it cannot be inferred whether the Guyanans are the majority for or against the project...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u234	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u235	... since we have here only the opinion of those who participated in the debate. A survey has been conducted – but I know that some politicians, in other areas at least, may call not to follow them... A poll is not a vote but it provides an indication.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u236	The number of comments, for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u237	If the number of comments on a site makes a vote, we're not done! And I don't think that democracy would come out of it. One might consider holding a referendum, there are precedents – I am well placed to know – but even if a majority emerged, would it suffice to consider that the rights of minorities are respected? Not to mention the question of indigenous peoples, which you recalled and which was raised by the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. Let us be clear: the committee did not say that this project violated the rights of indigenous peoples, but that if the allegations were corroborated, that is, if the indigenous peoples had not been consulted, then the project would violate the rule. I received the letter from Mr.Noureddine Amir, chairman of this committee, who asked the French state to respond to him before April 8, 2019, which we will do. It calls for the right to consultation and free, prior and informed consent of all indigenous peoples affected by the Golden Mountain Project to be guaranteed. The right to information has been respected and with regard to consultation, I would like to meet with the great customary council. Beyond that, I would like the reform of the mining code to include provisions specific to certain territories, in particular Guyana, for which consultation with the great customary council could become mandatory. The only thing that is sure is that we will not find a consensus solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u238	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u239	Thank you, Minister of State, for these first answers. You are right to recall the magnitude of illegal and clandestine gold-plating: we do not want opposition to this project to be the tree that hides the forest. But we are told that this project would be used to combat illegal gold-plating. This is strongly contested by the opponents, as many consider that the project's implementation would be rather an air call. If we want to impose more demanding and sustainable environmental rules tomorrow, going beyond the borders of Guyana and France alone to serve as a model on a global level, we will not be able to avoid a debate about France's geostrategic interests and honestly reflect on the hidden stakes. Let's have a few numbers. Global metal consumption will increase by 5% annually by 2050. We will have mined more metals in 30 years than in the history of our humanity: no less than 7.5 billion humans will consume as much ore as the 108 billion that have lived on Earth. We are here at the heart of France's mining strategy. Let us engage in a frank dialogue with the Guyanans, the French, because we have the feeling that the state, in reality, is seeking to reconcile the strategic interests of the so-called mineral sovereignty of France with the environmental stakes. But you'll have to choose. One goal cannot be pursued at the expense of the other, and I appreciate that you are clear, Minister. I repeat the question: can we build the project otherwise, so that it is sustainable and not just of convenience, in order to meet international ambitions? I do not wish Guyana to be sacrificed on the altar of international geostrategic interests. We have a duty, in parallel with the consultations, to study seriously the alternatives of development to this project, which, moreover, seems to me not to be commensurate with the economic, social and territorial development stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u240	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u241	There does not seem to be a direct link between illegal gold mining and a legal exploitation of gold, whether artisanal, by SMEs or at an industrial level – knowing that there is no industrial exploitation in Guyana today. Some may have made it seem, at one time, that the development of an industrial activity would help to combat illegal gold mining, but there is no link, either in one direction or in the other: industrial exploitation will not attract illegal gold mining workers either – especially since the techniques of exploitation are very different: either one digs deeply the soil or it is alluvial gold.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u242	But we're digging the roads!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u243	On the other hand, there is probably a link between the development of illegal orpainting in Guyana and the policy in neighbouring Brazil, where illegal orpainting is much more severely repressed than at home, and less respected human rights. As a result, illegal goldsmiths move their activities to Guyana. With regard to alternatives, I share your concerns. Can we do otherwise? That's the whole question. Can we provide guarantees? At the moment, this has not been done, and the project is not at the level of environmental protection. As for the other development projects, I have already replied that we want to act in this direction. Of course, there are economic or social benefits, in terms of jobs, but also in terms of taxes or social contributions, do not deny it. But I would like to say that for such a project, the tax benefits benefit the community, not the French state, because of the mechanism of defiscalisation of investments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u244	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u245	The data on the problem are simple and clear, which should allow you to decide, Minister of State, without sheltering yourself behind the excuse of complexity. The gold mine project of the Golden Mountain is a 2.5-kilometre-long pit, 500 metres wide and 400 metres deep in the equatorial forest, close to two integral biological reserves in northwestern Guyana. It is also 420 million euros of public investment, whose economic impact seems very uncertain and derisory – 750 direct jobs in twelve years, in a department where unemployment affects 19,000 people – and even more so in view of its disastrous ecological and social consequences – 47000 tons of cyanide spilled, 57000 tons of explosives employed and 2000 hectares of tropical forest destroyed. It is a "face-to-face consultation", in the words used by the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights in its 2017 opinion, which was organized, in contempt of the people, who are the first concerned and were the first to mobilize, alongside the hundreds of Guyanese, national and international associations gathered within the collective "Gold de question" that has opposed the project since 2016. We welcome their action. In summary, the state would grant rights of exploitation, predation and dispossession to the Russian-Canadian consortium Nordgold-Columbus Gold, against the rights of the people, their speech, their health, their place of life and the preservation of the environment. In a rare decision, the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, alerted by the Organization of Indigenous Nations of Guyana, expressed concern about the lack of consultation of the indigenous peoples of Guyana. He called on France to suspend the project in the absence of the free, prior and informed consent of all indigenous peoples concerned. You could give him your answer today, Minister of State: there is no environmental interest in this great unnecessary and dangerous project. The only substantial economic benefit will be derived by multinationals. Today, seven out of ten Guyanans say they have not been convinced of the benefits of the project; 69% of them say they are opposed to it. It is no longer time to tarry, Minister of State, we have to decide. When are you finally gonna hear right? When will you give priority to the preservation of the environment and the lives of people over profits? When are you finally going to permanently suspend this harmful project?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u246	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u247	I don't know how to use the two minutes I have to answer you, Mrs. Obono. That you arrive at the end of the debate without having followed the beginning is your right, but all the questions you ask, I have answered.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u248	I followed the debate very well. If I ask these questions, it is because they have not received an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u249	It's a shame you didn't hear them. I will answer you only on one point, because I believe it is the bottom of the problem: with you, everything is always simple. It's good against evil.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u250	It's a choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u251	It is enough to choose good for it to triumph over evil. All your expressions are in that sense, I wrote them down. See the first sentence: "The data on the problem is simple and clear, which should allow you to decide." Then, you strike the factors of evil, and it is enough that the forces of good rise to triumph over the forces of evil, beginning with the predatory capitalists... The 750 jobs you are quoting, for the record, but seem to think that this is nothing at all, since there are 19,000 unemployed. There are other places, you see, where 750 jobs are not taken lightly. As we speak, a dispatch from Agence France-Presse – an agency of the state, not predatory capitalism – has just announced that a steel factory in Fos-sur-Mer was being fined, imposed by the administration of my ministry, because it does not meet the standards of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u252	Well, that's your job, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u253	You see, it's not in Guyana, it's in France, and it's not about gold, it's about steel. Is it necessary, Mrs. Obono, that I immediately close this steelworks? Is this my responsibility to shut down this plant because it cannot immediately reduce its discharges?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u254	No, it's creating green jobs!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u255	You will be able to talk about this with those of your fellow Members who have been working seriously on the subject of pollution for years. They'll tell you that our responsibility is always to seek the right path, and it's not easy to find, whatever you're talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u256	Stop! What you're doing is giving permits to kill multinationals!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u257	I said it earlier, when you weren't here. You have often said "the human first". Well, it's between the activity by which humans earn their living, the work that makes them live with dignity, themselves and their families,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u258	They're poisoning each other!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u259	... and the protection of the environment that must be found a way. I don't object to the stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u260	You chose your model.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u261	But when we have to make a choice, even if it is not possible to reconcile them, we will. We, we take our responsibilities, we are not in protest, protest or permanent opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u262	You're in ecological treason! Permanent betrayal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u263	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I do it every day, all year round, on all the industrial sites in France, far from your simplicity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u264	Let's get to work, Mr. de Rugy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u265	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u266	Do you find it normal, Mr. Minister of State, that a former Chief of Staff of the Ministry of Ecology, Pierre Cuneo, who performed his duties when I was in the government, be a member of the French advisory committee of Columbus Gold, which carries and defends the Montagne d'Or project? Do you find it normal that he puts his knowledge of the archanes of the state and the administrations of the Ministry of Ecology at the service of this destructive project, and that a servant of the Republic thus turns against her? Second question: you said earlier that you had not met the project leader, but did he meet with your firm or administration? This is the problem I raised earlier: the register of interest representatives also lists all contacts with ministers and their teams. The third question is: is there any other argument in this case than money and that economic interests, which are ever more powerful than nature? For, at the bottom, what is the value of the Amazonian forest, of these 2500 hectares, between two integral biological reserves, of a territory with 2000 species, including 127 protected species, an important territory for indigenous peoples? I will tell you: its value to humanity is vital. Amazonian forest is extremely important for global climate regulation; It is a carbon sink, an extremely important place for biodiversity. What will France say, in front of Bolsonaro's Brazil, about the destruction of the Amazon forest, if we do the same thing?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u267	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u268	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I therefore believe, minister, that this project is neither amendable nor amendable, and I am concerned about what you announced to us today, that is, that the consideration of this project continues, when it should be declared destructive and therefore abandoned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u269	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u270	As you know, honourable Member, we agree that the Amazon forest plays a major role in terms of biodiversity and climate. You are also well placed to know, since you have been a Member of Parliament for a long time and you are very concerned about these issues, especially since you were a Minister, that the protection of the Amazonian forest is much more developed in France, therefore in Guyana, than in Brazil. That is a fact – and fortunately! These are not declarations of intent, but a reality: fortunately, we protect the Amazonian forest in Guyana more than Brazil did, including in the time of President Lula! I liked him, like others, personally, but you know that, when he was president of Brazil, he overgrown cultures, including GMOs, in deforested territories,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u271	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u272	... in particular to export agricultural products, including to Europe, and in particular to France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u273	Answer the question instead!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u274	The world is never simple. It is not black or white, and even those who supported President Lula have not claimed that one should be inspired by his agro-environmental policy in Brazil. As for the motivations of the project, you say that they are only financial. We are certainly in the presence of economic arguments: yes, we are talking about companies that develop an activity, that earn money in this way, and that make people work. This is economic activity. But in my opinion, it is not because we develop an economic activity that we have all the rights. It is not because there are job creations that we must abdicate everything. I have demonstrated since the beginning of the debate that I, for my part, will be the defender of the environmental requirement. As for your question concerning your former Chief of Staff, I confess that it is not my responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u275	You're a minister, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u276	Its function in society is a fact. I don't think you have anything to do with it, and neither do I.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u277	But is that normal?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u278	As for the question of whether any of the promoters of this project have met with my firm, it is something perfectly normal. I have told you, since you have witnessed the whole of this debate: if any promoters of this project ask to see me, I will meet them, because I wish to meet all the stakeholders, in this case of this project as in the others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u279	They don't respect the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u280	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u281	As the last speaker, I will be direct, but first of all, Minister of State, that you yourself said in September that the Gold Mountain project could not be completed as it stood. That's, basically, what we were able to get from the answers you've given us all morning. You acknowledge that this project raises strong tensions in Guyana, but that our responsibility is not to push it back, nor to push back gold exploitation. We consume this product, that is, gold, which comes from other countries where social and environmental rules will never be at our level. You have recalled the case of Brazil, but there are far worse. We are on a unique planet, and the structures of our society make gold indispensable. Today there is no alternative to its use, unlike other minerals extracted from the earth, such as diamond, which can now be produced artificially in an industrial way. For gold, this alternative does not exist. To push its extraction over other territories would be totally indecency towards the populations of the countries that will suffer the environmental and social consequences. Our responsibility is quite different: it is to take this project back to the ground. This is the will of the Libertés et territoires group. We want this project to meet the challenges. I'm sorry that I went back and forth in this debate, Minister of State, but I had to conclude this morning, in a nearby room, a conference on extra-financial accounting – the one that can count what is not in the financial balance sheets, which is capable of measuring social and environmental. So, are you ready to take over this project to make it the global reference for gold mining, incorporating an extra-financial accounting requirement that reflects the highest level of social and environmental vigilance in the world? Are you ready to make this project the COP 21 of gold and mining, so that France will give meaning to this exploitation at the global level? For it is not only a Guyanese or French subject, but it is a subject of interest to all humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u282	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u283	[[Smile]] No, I don't think we will make this project the COP 21 of gold mining! You have had the merit of showing the complexity of the project, rather than simplifying it excessively, and have expanded our reflection on the exploitation of gold in Guyana – I am not talking about this exploitation in the rest of the world, not being responsible for it, even if we can also conduct international negotiations to demand better guarantees. I prefer to say it frankly: no, we will not make this project an exemplary project. As it has gone, for many reasons, it is a project of industrial exploitation of gold as it exists elsewhere in the world. These two companies also work in the rest of the world, in other territories. So we must not afford words, but find a way. It will be very narrow, very steep, often chaotic from a democratic and political point of view. But it is our responsibility, in any case of mine, to find a way to manage the exploitation of gold in Guyana while protecting precisely, seriously and vigilantly the environment, biodiversity and the safety of people. For the risks, such as soil acidification or the break-up of the dikes I mentioned, are very real risks, and serious enough for us to examine them carefully before making a decision. I would point out, however, that there is currently no concrete request: it is only an intention, a project. The procedures will begin when the request is made. For my part, I hope that the Government will define its position on gold mining in general and on mining code. I'm working on it, and if some of you want to work on mine code reform, I'll invite them in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u284	Thank you, Minister. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-07-O1141.u285	Next sitting, Monday, 11 February, at 4 p.m.: Discussion of the bill for a school of trust. The meeting is adjourned.
