ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law, after the accelerated procedure has begun, concerning the entry into office of the representatives of the European Parliament elected in France in the elections of 2019 (No. 1880, 1936).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u3	The exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union, as you know, has the effect of changing the composition of the European Parliament. No Member State saw its representation diminish – the decision had been taken – and the seats occupied by the United Kingdom had to be redistributed – so things had been prepared. At the time of the adoption of the draft law on the election of representatives to the European Parliament last year, it was expected that the United Kingdom would leave the European Union on 29 March, i.e. before the European elections on 26 May. As a result, it had been decided to allocate part of the British seats to the European Parliament to the various Member States, and that was how France saw its quota of Members increase from 74 to 79. As you know, the United Kingdom has not yet quite found the way to leave the European Union. The Member States have decided to agree to postpone the maximum deadline for its exit by a few months in order to enable it to settle its internal debates on the Brexit issue. On 10 April, the European Council granted the United Kingdom an extension of the withdrawal period until 31 October 2019. Since, therefore, elections will take place on Thursday 23 May in the United Kingdom and seventy-three British MEPs will be appointed, the distribution of seats had to be reviewed to return to the ante situation. This text accordingly adapts the allocation of the five additional seats and refers to the arrangements for the election, at the appropriate time, of the five representatives concerned. It must be voted, you understand, by both assemblies, and promulgated before the European elections that are held on 26 May, in order to ensure the complete solidity of the vote. The law must, in fact, specify the status of candidates to occupy the five additional seats that France will obtain as a result of the UK's exit from the European Union. Rarely has the accelerated procedure been so useful, and I thank you for having accepted this text in a spirit of consensus, so that no uncertainty can be placed on the European elections. This text consists of a single article which makes it possible to specify how the five Members of the European Parliament will be appointed in the event of a British withdrawal from the European Union: the additional seats are allocated according to the method of proportional representation to the highest average. Three amendments were tabled at the meeting and will be discussed. On the subject of the rapporteur, I shall issue a favourable opinion, because it is a useful amendment for the full clarity of the text. I also welcome him as an amendment of good republican principle, since he gave rise to a joint reflection with the Senate. It is a useful work of legislative co-construction, which will enable the European elections to be held in perfect conditions. With regard to the identical amendments Nos 2 and 3 tabled, one, by the Socialist and related groups and the other, by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, Laurent Nunez, the Secretary of State, had issued the Government's position in committee. This one hasn't changed. Ladies and gentlemen, with this text, we have a duty and a responsibility to act quickly. It is not a partisan question, but to assure the French that the vote on 26 May can take place without any uncertainty. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] My point is brief, but given the reserve period that applies to members of the Government, I would not like it to appear as any indication of political choice or orientation. The comments of the members of the Government present here will therefore be factual in order to avoid any debate and to encourage an early vote on the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u4	Mrs Coralie Dubost, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u5	As the Minister of the Interior has pointed out at the moment, the purpose of this bill is to set up a transitional period for the European elections on 26 May in order to take account of the postponement of the UK's exit from the European Union. Of course, we cannot speak of this text without saying a few quick words about Brexit and the discussions that have been under way for more than two years to determine how the United Kingdom will withdraw from the European Union. We are all, here, as respectful of the British people's decision as we are of concern to preserve the interests of the French and Europe. The European Union must be able to devote itself to all the issues which are of interest to the people, and therefore, as soon as possible, to getting out of the uncertainty which weighs upon it as a result of the referendum vote of the British people. In this regard, we welcome the determination of the President of the Republic, who has shown firmness and thus allowed the deadline of 31 October 2019 to be fixed. According to Article 50 of the Treaty, the United Kingdom was to leave the European Union this spring, no later than 29 March 2019. The Member States would then have composed without him a new European Parliament and a new European Commission. That will not be the case. The inability of the House of Commons to reach a majority for one outcome or another has led Europeans to postpone the deadline twice. With the elections approaching, you will understand that this extension will bring about necessary adjustments, since the United Kingdom will still be part of the European Union at the time of the elections. In fact, next week, when European citizens appoint their representatives in Strasbourg, the British will also do so. However, the European Union had prepared to operate at 27 members. The British seats in the European Parliament had, for some, been reserved for future enlargements, for others, allocated to countries whose demographic changes justified the strengthening of their delegations. This is the case for France, which was to increase from 74 to 79 representatives. This will always be the case, but during the term of office, on the specific date on which the British withdrawal will take effect. We must, with this bill, establish a transitional rule and, obviously, before 26 May, the day of the European elections. The text should therefore be promulgated as soon as possible. That is why you are right, Minister, as rapporteur of the National Assembly, I have taken care to submit to Mr Alain Richard, rapporteur of the Senate, the amendments that I will propose to you to adopt by way of amendment. The deadlines oblige Parliament to adopt quickly. The change from 74 to 79 French representatives is already settled by decision of the European Council, which has direct effect in France. It is a dimension that we are not, in practice, seized of. This bill therefore consists in defining the terms of appointment and the status of those who will occupy the five additional seats granted to France. With regard to the modalities of designation, the Government has gone to the simplest level and I would be happy to agree with it. The five additional elected representatives will be appointed in the same manner, procedure and method of voting as the other seventy-four, i.e. proportional representation with the allocation of the remaining seats to the highest average. In this way, we will avoid any contestation, and things will be easier to calculate, especially because of the holding of these elections in a single national constituency. With regard to the status of the five additional elected representatives, this was again the most legible choice. They will be assimilated to the following lists, i.e. they will not have any rights or duties before they take up their actual duties. They will only be called on the date of the British withdrawal. If they were to replace one of the elected candidates on their list earlier because of resignation or death or for any other reason, their status as an additional elected candidate would in turn change to their next. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the mechanism presented to us by the Government. I will propose a single amendment to simplify its drafting and to clarify the rules of incompatibility, if it turns out that a holder of an additional seat becomes, before being called to Strasbourg, national parliamentarian or member of a local executive. I did so simply by extending the common law of incompatibilities, again in full agreement with the rapporteur of the Senate. I would like to conclude by calling on everyone not to be wrong. This bill is not a prelude to the European elections on 26 May. Nor is it an opportunity to replay the 2018 game or the decision to favour a single national list, a method that had always been that of the European election between 1979 and 1999. Finally, it is not a forum for calling on the various parties to take better account of local representations: some have respected the diversity of the territories, others less, according to what I have understood from the comments made in the Law Committee, but I invite to address the recriminations to the leaders of the parties concerned, who are the sole ones responsible for making the lists. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We have to solve a concrete problem: to manage the extension of the British withdrawal process. This bill provides a concrete solution by correctly defining additional seats. I invite you to stay there.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u6	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u7	I may not comply with the rapporteur's recommendations, but without fear that she will censure me: she does not have the power to do so. On the other hand, it will be up to her to say, after listening to me, what, in my words, falls within the framework that she has set. You know as well as I do, ladies and gentlemen, that this text deals with a subject which is not technical but political. We make an absurd decision, in enthusiasm and cheerfulness; absurd, because we are organizing the arrangements to deal with the postponement of the consequences of Brexit decided by the English people. What about Members who will come to the European Parliament before leaving? I wish to consider all aspects of this strange issue as quickly as possible. Once again, this decision is absurd, since the British are leaving. I hope that the German government does not intend to find any new tricks that will allow them to remain. I say the German government, since I agreed, on the occasion, with the French government – this is rare enough to be stressed. I am saying 'the French government', because, in this kind of case, we have to pay close attention to what we are saying and what we are doing. When France says something, it seems to me that it is very important, especially in the aftermath of the conclusion of the touching Treaty of Aachen which, barely signed, does not apply. Its Article 2 provides that the Germans and the French will now hold common positions in Europe and speak with the same voice – a condominium that I object to because I consider it to be contrary to our interests. Our interest is not to speak with one voice with the German government. First, it defends the interests of the German people and the German nation as they define them themselves, and these do not always correspond to our interest or our way of doing things, whatever the government in place. Secondly, we have other interests in Europe, and I do not see the advantage of speaking with a common voice with a government, and of being faced with twenty-six others. Above all, under this circumstance, let us remember that the French President had expressed himself in the clearest way: he did not want one to give the impression, in one way or another, that we would circumvent the British people's decision by means of arrangements, and without taking into account the fact that the British people themselves defined what they wanted. After all, the British voted; Parliament, on two occasions, did not accept the proposed agreement. Therefore, I don't see what else we can do but say, "Goodbye and thank you! » Don't think what I'm saying would be any defense of this agreement. By no means! That is one of the reasons why I call on you to reject this bill, which seems to mean that we want to give this agreement one more chance. For that is what we are doing: we postpone the moment when we separate from the English, because we hope to get them to admit a text that the French defended by saying that it was him or nothing; We hope that they will change their minds and accept it. I call on you precisely to reject this text, because it is the worst free trade agreement ever proposed to France. It is proposed that we accept that the English have an extraordinary right, by which they would not be subject to any of the obligations of the European Communities, but would benefit from all the advantages of the single market, as they see them. This agreement was negotiated under disastrous conditions. According to the non-governmental organisation – NGO – Corporate Europe Observatory, the negotiations were surrounded by a real omerta. This would even be a major step backwards in terms of transparency for the European Union. Never before had the European authorities refused to reveal even the words spoken by the lobbyists. The agreement was therefore found in total opacity. The French Government, in view of the rejection of the agreement by the English, considered that they had only to manage to get out of a situation which they themselves had created, whereas the Germans believed that we could continue to talk to make them accept it. That wasn't even the negotiator's position! And it is not because he is French that Mr Barnier set his position on that of France; It was only a matter of coherence: the people who voted no and the Parliament having rejected the agreement, the discussion was over. In particular, this was the clearest way to signify that the decision of the English people would be respected. I invite you, in rejecting this text, at the same time to reject the agreement that it promises to make possible, because this bill is not only technical and the two texts are linked: to vote for this arrangement is to vote for the idea that this agreement could apply. Maybe you find it delicious, but I don't, and I think I'm not the only one on these benches. I do not agree that one more chance should be given to a document which states that the Union – that is, all of us – and the United Kingdom agree "on the importance of free and undistorted competition in their trade and investment relations", and which states that the parties "recognize that anti-competitive trade practices, mergers between companies and State intervention are likely to disrupt the smooth functioning of markets and diminish the benefits of trade liberalisation. The most absolute, the most blindest, free trade is the horizon of this agreement, which is only possible if we adopt today the distribution that has been discussed. This bill is, you say, about the number of Members of Parliament, and no one seems to question that number. Well, you should, because he's unfair. From 1979 to 1994, France and Germany held so many seats in the European Parliament. Yet we did not have the same number of inhabitants. We apply the Gaullist saying that there can only be union in strict equality between French and Germans. From the moment when representation is correlated with the number of inhabitants, it goes without saying that this equality is ended. It's not a detail! If we vote per head, we dissolve the level of the nation. Since, from 1994, the European Union has been expanded to include other states, with a constant number of Members, those who were already there have seen their numbers reduced. It was reduced on the basis of the observed population. For example, Germany lost three seats, from 99 to 96, a three-seat reduction, but France lost 13 seats, from 87 to 74. It's not a fair distribution! Do you touch it this time? The French could have obtained this: the other parties wishing at all costs that we sign their extension to discuss with the English of their Brexit, we could have asked, since it was going to be a question of the number of parliamentarians, to restore, no longer the equality between French and Germans – I forget this concept, to which I am attached – but a representation proportional to the number of inhabitants, which would be worth having, not 79, but 85! It's a problem, but we're not discussing it. Why is it more important to grant additional time to the English than to do justice to the French? Don't think I'm scolding you. I intend, at this moment, to congratulate you for not falling into the pitfalls that some of our predecessors had fallen into in a previous legislature. They had decided that the National Assembly would complete the following seats. It is not illegitimate – the National Assembly is legitimate to do whatever it wants – but we could have been more respectful of the vote of the citizens. The Government did not take over the old intuition of Mr. Sarkozy's majority, and it decided, and I congratulate him, that it would respect the vote of the citizens. When others arrive at the Assembly, they will be those elected by the citizens. It is obviously a strange situation to be elected without a seat, to have none of the duties and rights, while we are elected! Above all, it shows how much this is a trousersnade. If they're going to be elected, it's that Brexit is going to be consumed. So why don't we consume it before the election, rather than the other way around? There is a small lack of logic, but, after all, politics is also poetry and an ability to create new situations or new words. So we are waiting, and I would like to congratulate you again. You did not give in to a temptation that the report on the impact study suggested, skillfully enough, as the snake of the legend. The report suggested that the last elected candidates should be designated on the list(s) with the highest number of votes, in order to promote political pluralism. In other words, after the vote, additional seats would have been given to those already in the majority, in order to promote political pluralism... We really need to have the audacity of a rapporteur to propose such an idea in the context of the impact assessment. To strengthen pluralism, we help those who are already the majority! You have resisted temptation: bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u8	Yes, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u9	[[Smile]] See how fair I am: I put myself on one side or the other, according to the texts! Having said that, I will not extend my compliments to the rest. I'm going to take a detail like this, to make you smile. Thirty-four lists in France are a lot, but it is democracy: if they meet the conditions, all lists can be filed. The mayors rip their hair out: where to find thirty-four panels? In Paris and Lyon, it's not too much of a problem, but in Marseille, it's very complicated!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u10	He's right! In the countryside too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u11	As there were not thirty-four, they decided to take only twenty, and to cut them all in half, so that in Marseilles, our panels do not correspond to the size of the official posters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u12	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u13	[[Smile]] So we have to either cover our neighbor's sign, or be covered by him, with half-posters. I am sure that the minister of the interior will put good order: the law is the law, even in Marseilles, and the size of the signs is defined by the size of the official posters! [[Smile]] I come to less rejoicing remarks. We had the opportunity to protest, and I'll do it again in the National Assembly gallery – where else would I do it? –, against the allocation of speaking time, whose calculation is a combination at least as strange as the weightings of the survey institutes, and I assume just as secret. We count the campaign dynamics – we are upset with the result! – but also the previous results: it doesn't fit either! There is a whole part of poetry, that is, of creation, which leads to the following result: the majority has a majority, that is, fifty-six minutes; the National Gathering – yet not the most numerous in this assembly –, forty-eight minutes; The Republicans, thirty-eight minutes, less, therefore, than the National Rally; The Socialist Party, twenty minutes. He doesn't complain, it's worse: it's us, with nineteen minutes. It's strange, because you're thirty-two on these benches, and we're seventeen: it doesn't seem to me that it's a one-minute gap. Then the Europe Ecology The Greens group has fourteen minutes, and the Communist Party has eight minutes – not the time to get drunk, it's an advantage! We're not going to leave that alone! After my solemn protest in this rostrum, we will say other things tomorrow, and Mrs Manon Aubry will take care of it. I'm sure you're all married to the conditions of democracy, but you'll have other reasons to be. If you vote on the proposed text, you agree that seventy-three English elected representatives will participate in the European Parliament in the validation of the appointment of the President of the European Commission. It is a way of politically distorting the result. Why would these people go to the election of the chairman of a commission that no longer concerns them? Whatever the method of designation, it is envisaged that the Chairman of the Commission will be elected on the basis of the vote of the peoples. You'll see, in a moment, that this is another subject. In any case, these parliamentarians participate in distorting the election of the President of the Commission. This case doesn't seem to displease everyone, and not everyone has the same opinion. The French president does not admit the idea of a Spitzenkandidat. Everyone here knows what a Spitzenkandida is, but for the comfort of the speech, let us specify this concept: each European party, for example the European People's Party – the European Right – will appoint a Spitzenkandida, the candidate it will recommend during the election, so that the voters will vote knowingly. We may have other reasons not to want Spitzenkandidat – we do – but recognize that this position is consistent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u14	She's very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u15	The French President said that he did not agree with this automatism. But it is not so simple: according to Mr Juncker's chief of staff, Martin Selmayr, a victorious Spitzenkandidat who has campaigned all over Europe to obtain a majority of seats, will have a stronger legitimacy, as President of the Commission, than a person chosen behind the closed doors – and I ask you to retain this concept of "closed doors" behind which we settle. He's not totally wrong, this man. I am not saying that the position of the French President is wrong, but Mr Selmayr is not wrong to think that behind closed doors things sometimes happen quite surprising. Let's take an example. In the last European elections, the Socialist Party campaigned by saying: "Vote for us, we will prevent Mr Juncker from being President of the European Commission. And behind the closed doors, what happened? The European Socialist Party – PSE – decided to vote for Mr Juncker after having promised in the various Member States that the opposite would happen. I would like to remind you that all these elements are important at this crucial time in the life of the European Union. Mr Juncker's chief of staff, of course, has his opinion, but where it no longer goes at all, it is when the "AKK" style spreads. Mrs Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer felt it necessary to reply to the President of the French Republic, the President of the second power of the European Union, that everything he had said about the SMIC and the rest was not good at all. I thank you for the exact quotation, but his words were unheard of insolence. Mrs Kramp-Karrenbauer is president of the majority party in Germany and she addresses the President of the French Republic – I am ignoring my differences with him here – in a tone that is not acceptable to a Frenchman. We cannot allow a letter to be thrown in the face in which you are told, first, that you can go and see, second, that the seat of the European Parliament in Strasbourg is no longer thought of, and thirdly that France should leave its seat as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council – the United Nations. No, no and no! A thousand times no! The European Parliament was established in Strasbourg because it is a symbol of the need for an agreement between the French and Germans. Why? Because they invaded us three times and we wanted to tell them: no...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u16	Oh, right there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u17	But it's history! Those who forget the long time, those who forget the history cannot protect themselves from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u18	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u19	We're only protecting ourselves from what we know. For my part, I am like all of you on these benches: I wish it was definitely the past. But for that to be the case, it must be remembered.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u20	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u21	Why do we do things? Because they have a symbolic meaning. Similarly, the composition of the United Nations Security Council has a symbolic meaning. If we were to decide to change it, we should not simply give Germany a seat, as his government is asking us to do. I repeat this and I know that it is shocking: the imperium of this government, which has had for him the tranquillity of continuity for fourteen years, has distorted the construction of Europe. The sudden arrival of ten countries without political conditions has dramatically unbalanced the European construction, which has turned exclusively to the East, with the quarrels that are taking place there. Manfred Weber, Spitzenkandidat of the European People's Party – yours, dear colleagues of the LR Group –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u22	Yeah, so what?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u23	I accept that, dear colleague, and that is after all what the PPE has decided. It turns out that if, therefore, everyone agreed, the French President is no longer. And I also do not wish it to be Manfred Weber, and I have told the President by giving him a reason for raising your hair on your head: I do not agree that the next President of the Commission should be appointed by the German government and the majority party in Germany, the CDU-CSU. I do not agree because their conception of the development of the European Union is a disaster, it is the ordo-liberalism they seek to impose on the whole of Europe with an iron hand, which has led to disasters like Brexit. But, finally, Mr. Weber could talk to us in a different tone. The European Parliament says that it will reject any candidate for the Presidency of the Commission who has not been designated as Spitzenkandidat before the elections. And if that is not enough to convince you, you other Members of the Republic Group on the move, Manfred Weber said that if the governments of the Member States were trying to reverse this principle, they should explain why, despite their great speeches on the need for democratic change in Europe, they are not ready to give up opacity and secrecy. Mr Manfred Weber, who is a candidate for the presidency of the Commission, accuses the President of the French Republic – again, I put aside my differences with him – of preferring opacity and secrecy! So that's the tone, now in Europe, we're talking about? No, we cannot accept it, just as we cannot accept the denial of democracy on which I will finish my remarks. There is a denial of democracy when you elect people and set a number of deputies that is not in line with the one that should come back to the French; Denial of democracy when we are told, in particular, that British people will participate in the appointment of the President of the Commission when they are no longer concerned; democracy, finally, with what is being prepared in the corridors and behind closed doors. So, what was only a reasoning on my part in a blog post published last night,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u24	Pub!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u25	... was confirmed by Stéphane Séjourné – and I would like to pay tribute to him; Oh yes, that happens –, campaign manager of the list On the move and himself candidate. He tells us that it is "probable" that the Group of the Greens, the Socialist Group and the Group of the European People's Party, i.e. you, on the right, are in a majority with the Members of the list on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u26	Uh...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u27	In other words, on the move, the Republicans, the Socialists and the Greens, you are considering being part of the same majority in the European Parliament. Then you will explain to us that Europe is not France. Well, if Europe is not France, all the rest of your arguments fall.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u28	Such a majority in the European Parliament is not foreseen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u29	Really? I'm referring to history... The last time you explained to us that you had to vote for Mr Juncker so that he would not become President of the Commission and, once elected, you voted for him! That's exactly what you're doing today, and Mr. Stayant, at least, says things clearly. It is important to know that Spitzenkandidat of the European Socialist Party – I will not say anything about my poor French socialist friends – is a liberal who would scare the Members of the LR Group, as liberal as he is. But, after all, it is the social democrats' business. Mr Timmermans, however, believes that, given the current prognosis, European socialists will also need the progressive liberals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u30	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u31	And Emmanuel Macron said, "I think he's just putting his cards all over the place. Say, Emmanuel Macron would put his cards all over the place? The same Spitzenkandidat of the PSE adds: "All I can do is try to offer him something that could attract him, and wait to see what choices he makes. So Mr. Timmermans is putting baits in the hope that you will be willing to bite it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u32	But we're smarter!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u33	His tone is quite special. One might think that all this is a distant story that concerns this Spitzenkandidat who, after all, has the right to do his electoral campaign as we used to do, in agricultural committees, by making attractive proposals in the hope that people will follow. But since then, the situation has changed. At the Marching Meeting of the Republic in Strasbourg, Mrs Loiseau received the support – and I congratulate her – of members of the European Socialist Party: Matteo Renzi, former President of the Italian Council, inventor of the "progressive" formula and who liquidated the traditional left in Italy; António Costa, Prime Minister of Portugal, of which I am not just complaining, I am obliged to acknowledge it, according to which "the progressive forces must unite in order to allow the necessary change to restore confidence", and to add: "Dear Emmanuel – if, minister, you will carry the message in case it does not happen – we count on your determination for these progressive changes. But this is complicated by the statements made in France. Mr Jadot has been asked who, for obscure reasons, is most determined, whether, in the future European Parliament, the Greens will be part of the quadripartite majority with the European People's Party, the Liberals and the Social Democrats. That is at least a clear question. Answer: "If we are offered a programme that substantially improves – the adverb "substantially" being a matter of personal evaluation and therefore necessarily very subjective – the functioning of the Union and European policies, then the Greens will support it. I will not do it, no matter what – at least, so things are clear – neither my friends nor my Communist comrades.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u34	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u35	Don't say, dear reporter, that I'm getting away from the subject. I intend to show that this text, which looks technical, which speaks only of a number of Members, and which we should vote in five minutes, actually contains a whole political logic that will lead to the democratic catastrophe that we already know in Europe: the great coalition. I hope that you, Members of the Republican Group, who are not on my side and who are even on the opposite side of the House, will not let that happen. And neither do you socialists!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u36	Their benches are empty!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u37	The great coalition is the end of political democracy. If, after having argued, we arrive at an assembly where everyone agrees to appoint the same president, it is that we laughed at the voters, and that is what is being prepared: the great quadripartite coalition on which we thought it was good to question Yannick Jadot. Mr Séjourné, who is leading the European campaign on the list The Republic on the move, I repeat, has admitted that it was one of its political objectives – and I fully understand it because, in a certain way, The Republic on the move and the Government is already the great coalition, some of which, here, are only left behind. And soon, the last disgusting ones will make the path that remains to be done; and the last disgusted ones will go back to their nostalgia. We have no other opportunity than this to speak against it. Have we been asked our opinion on Brexit? If a motion for a resolution had not been tabled, we would not have spoken for a second here in the French Parliament about the content of Brexit. Not for a second! I am no longer to the compliments of the beginning of my speech. The President of the Republic had made the commitment that never again would be negotiated under the conditions under which it was done for the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, CETA; a negotiation, you remember, which took place in absolute and unbearable opacity. So the president said, "Never again! But it was one of those who raised their hands at the European Council so that no free trade agreement could be examined by national representations from now on, only the European Parliament should have the right to vote on the matter. [[Mrs. Danièle Obono and Mr. Stéphane Little applaud. – Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] So, if we do not discuss it any more, it is not by I do not know what obscure fatality, but it is because the political decision was taken. That is how we kill Europe, the European idea. Gradually, in front of everyone, a building is built by saying, "Always cause, you interest me"; or, "Determine what you want, vote what you want, anyway, we will do what we want and, anyway, we all agree to do something other than what you want. If you make the big coalition, well, you'll stab a little more the European idea. If you make the big coalition, no matter how many Members we will elect, many of them will be liars and usurpers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u38	That's minority talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u39	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u40	I would like to raise two specific, factual points, Mr Mélenchon. Firstly, contrary to what you say, Brexit has not taken place: the British can unilaterally, until the day they ratify the withdrawal agreement presented to them, revoke Article 50, which means, if I may say trivially, that Mrs May can, at any time, take her phone and, on behalf of the British people, inform Mr Juncker that Article 50 is no longer relevant and that the United Kingdom therefore wishes to remain within the European Union. As such, the various deadlines apply and make the United Kingdom, to date, a Member State. That is why its Members will be sitting, and that is why, until the withdrawal agreement has been ratified by the United Kingdom, the latter, I insist, remains a full member of the European Union. Secondly, we have only negotiated with the United Kingdom, at this stage, the withdrawal agreement. The free trade you have mentioned concerns the declaration of intent on future relations which have not been negotiated and on which, of course, the European Parliament and the national parliaments, if any, according to their respective mandates, will be consulted. We therefore do not know, for the time being, Mr Mélenchon, what the nature of the trade, control regime, regulatory regime, health control regime or reciprocity that might apply in the trade, data or access of persons will be. For the moment, what is on the table only concerns divorce, the withdrawal agreement. That was a factual point that I thought was worth mentioning. Finally, in this House, Alexandre Holroyd, rapporteur, presented Parliament as a whole with a series of orders that could be made in the event that withdrawal would take place without agreement and, unilaterally, the United Kingdom would declare that it wished to leave without the agreement that had been negotiated. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Last factual point, I would like to bring to your attention the discussions that took place at the European Council meeting on 23 February 2018, at which the European Heads of State reflected on the process they would like to follow in appointing the next President of the European Commission. On this occasion, as evidenced by the documents you find online – I have just checked it out – Donald Tusk, at the end of his press conference, said that the Spitzenkandidat process "is not automatic. The Treaty is very clear on this: it is for the European Council to appoint the candidate autonomously, taking account of the European elections. This means that the Spitzenkandidat system, if it is claimed by those who defend it, is not legal or legal in nature, and that it is up to the European Council, by consensus, to formulate a proposal to the European Parliament so that it, by its majority – which we hope is absolute, failing which it would not be a vote – can give its consent, or not, to the proposal put forward by the Council. It seemed to me that this factual information would be useful to our debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u41	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u42	In my opening remarks, I referred to the difficulty for the Government in sticking to factual elements, given the period in which we find ourselves. For calling the Spitzenkandat's procedure a "democratic anomaly" a few months ago, I could tell you that we could find ourselves on this point – and I see that it makes someone smile at me then. But we must remember that at the time this procedure was presented as a great political victory for the European Parliament, which gave it the hand in this matter. However, I do not want to go beyond the scope of this discussion. Your remarks underline, at the very least, the paradoxical situation in which we find ourselves, with a decision by the British people, whose President Emmanuel Macron has often reminded us that implementation must be a requirement, but which also faces delays and difficulties in implementation faced by the British Prime Minister before his Parliament. Of which act. This is also why the Government did not wish to anticipate a lack of agreement to introduce earlier legislation, as it could have done – precisely in order to avoid any interference in the political and relations between the European Parliament and the Prime Minister and his Government. [[Smile]] Second factual point, Mr. MP, in the form of a nod to Marseillais that you are: we both know, for having done some campaigns in this charming city, that, whatever the size of the signs, they are systematically covered by posters of one candidate, until, a few hours later, those of another candidate come to cover them completely. So you are right to remind me of my responsibility to enforce the law, but with regard to the electoral billboards in Marseilles, I fear that, in order to enforce it, we need you and I to unite.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u43	Willingness!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u44	Indeed, regardless of their political party, poster collators sometimes neglect this dimension. However, you are right to say that in Marseilles – and this is also the case in many municipalities – the display is a problem. Not all municipalities have thirty-four panels, and some may not even have the place to install them. We have sent a message to all the mayors in this regard, so that we can act. I will not go back to the issue of airtime, about which I will be able to send you elements, because this is a controversial issue, on which you have wished to refer the matter to the authorities. Some technical elements justify our position, but I would not like to plead, in order not to interfere in the democratic and political debate that weighs today. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I note, however, Mr Mélenchon, that you have affirmed convergences of combat, which we share, with Emmanuel Macron, and even with Stéphane Séjourné. We take note of it and we will send it to us, even though we have been able to note some fundamental differences, which I would not deny with the friendly wink that I address to you with these words. Nevertheless, let me have this wink at the moment when you called in our discussion the presence of poetry – which is, everyone knows, the magic of words. Listening to you, Mr Mélenchon, we are once again convinced that eloquence is certainly the poetry of thought.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u45	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u46	Mr. Mélenchon's intervention requires a small response. It is a pity that the young people who were present in the stands have left. Perhaps they will still have the opportunity to hear this answer. Mr Mélenchon, you have used strong words: you have spoken of "denial of democracy", "dark fatality", "killing Europe", " stabbing the European idea", Members of the European Parliament who would be " liars" and " usurpers", and a "absurd" decision. I hear this vocabulary linked to fear and anguish, and even to the end of the world and of Europe, but in the face of reality – and not in denial of reality – it is not a denial of democracy. In your words, on the other hand, I hear a denial of reality. There is one reality: Brexit. The reality is the British referendum vote, and we must face it. This text is indispensable, not to circumvent the real, but to deal with it, to preserve the interests of the French. There is no need to shake scarecrows in order to make rational decisions, favourable to all the French. Be careful, Brexit has flourished thanks to fake news.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u47	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u48	In your speech, I was embarrassed by the question of the number of seats in the European Parliament and their distribution. You know very well why we are moving from 74 to 79 seats, not 85, as you say. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] There are two reasons for this. The first is that we reduce the number of seats at the same time. The second, essential for ensuring equity between Member States at European level, is that, for small countries to be represented, there is not just a rule of three between the size of the population and the number of Members of the European Parliament; A rule of degressivity is applied for small states: the number of MEPs is capped for large Member States – those with a large population – while it is increased for the very small states, whose representation starts at six. If this were not the case, then for Malta to have a Member, there would have to be 292 German Members, which would be unfair. That is why the number of French Members will increase from 74 to 79, not 85. I know your attention to the correctness of the words. Because we all have a concern for democracy here, this text is indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u49	Mr Vincent Bru has the floor for an explanation of vote on the motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u50	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We have noted the many arguments put forward by Mr Mélenchon, but we believe that they are moving away from the subject matter of the text which we have to consider this afternoon. The purpose of the day is, indeed, to regulate the method of election of the five members who correspond to numbers 75 to 79. Despite his argument against the Brexit agreement, the method of appointing Members, the mode of campaigning, speaking times and many other matters, the MODEM and related groups felt that this motion of rejection should be rejected. So we will not vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u51	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u52	We have all understood the reason why the FI Group, and in particular Jean-Luc Mélenchon, tabled and defended this motion: it is a matter of having a forum. It is, of course, a right, and one may want to deal with the subject more broadly than within the strict framework of the bill before us today – with questions that are sometimes legitimate, but sometimes as excessive or inappropriate. In reality, there is a question which is not answered by the defence of this motion for a preliminary rejection, which states that this text must be rejected in order to reject the agreement reached on Brexit, whose validity and interest in France and Europe you are contesting. However, if we reject this text, what will happen on the evening of 26 May next, for the last five elected members who have been chosen by our compatriots? What will their legal regime be until Brexit actually comes into force? I would even be prepared to give thought to the possibility that it may not be implemented, because, if we know what the British people have decided, we do not know very well how its representatives will get out of the situation they have put themselves into. In order to defend the interests of the French MEPs who will be sitting in Parliament tomorrow, we must obviously discuss this text and vote on it – and therefore reject this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u53	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u54	[[Smile]] Thank you, Mr. Brindeau, for leaving with lucidity of my intention and method. The National Assembly is indeed a forum, and that is why I wanted to be a Member of Parliament for the French people, rather than sitting on the board of directors of an association whose number of members are checked at regular intervals. This is the French people. I find here the usual method: Mr Castaner, with the skill we know him and although he ended up with a fine compliment, which I do not reject, believes that my speech is a sign of support. But you know as well as I do that this is not the case at all. Let's not confuse the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u55	It was in the second degree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u56	Whoever the President of the Republic of my country is, I don't like people talking to him from abroad. I do not accept that the German right-wing government treats the French government and its president in this way, rejecting us in two words. I wanted to say it. On the other hand, the reporter, at least I tried to be smiling. If you only get fear and anxiety from me, it's because you don't know me very well. I am neither afraid nor anxious, and I do not seek to provoke fear or anguish, but these are the words, madam, that they sometimes blaze, and it is necessary. Words are not the variants of these crushed mines that are found in some circles. When you elect someone on the basis of a program and do the opposite of what he has just said, you have the right to say that he is a usurper. What other words do you have to say it? You could have offered me some, since you're all so well-inspired! Then, Madame de Montchalin, formal logic certainly has its interest, but it also has its limits. Indeed, Madam, the English people voted Brexit. In France, when the people vote something, it is considered that it could be the opposite. Since we voted 'no' and Parliament decided that it would be 'yes', you say that the same is true in England – that the people voted 'no', but that Parliament will vote 'yes'. Well, no! The people voted "no" and Parliament must vote "no" behind. The English voted and the decision was taken: they are no longer members of the Union. It is because the European Council has decided on a new deadline that we are having this discussion, otherwise the British would have elected zero in this Parliament. It is absurd: we will elect people who will go along the way. As for what to do, well, these Members will be elected, final point! The others who have chosen to leave – it is their right, which must be respected – ours are elected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u57	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u58	The Communist Group will vote in favour of this motion of rejection. I agree with all the arguments put forward by Jean-Luc Mélenchon and will add another one: the paradox that the European Union puts countless sticks in the wheels of the British to constantly delay the application of Brexit and deny the word of the British people expressed by its vote – or, in any case, to make it pay very dearly, as we denied and made the vote of the French and Dutch, in 2005, to finally adopt, against the opinion of these peoples, the treaties which they had rejected by referendum. The paradox is that the European Union, at the same time making the British pay dearly for their audacity and vote, has rushed to redistribute the roles, positions and number of Members within the European Union, when there was absolutely no urgency to do so. We could very well secure the mandate that will begin in the European Parliament at a constant number, then register Brexit when it is effective and review the distribution of the number of Members for the next electoral experience. It would simply have been a good job, but it seems the opposite is happening.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u59	It's contradictory to what's been said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u60	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u61	I hear with interest what we are told: Brexit is almost the fault of the European Commission. No! It comes from the British's inability to agree on what they really want for the post-Brexit. But they are divided into three thirds, one of which does not want Brexit, another wants Brexit with agreement and the third does not want agreement at all. I am not one of those who think that, small European country that we are – because we are a small European country –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u62	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u63	...we can weigh against the great leaders of this world. I am one of those who think leaving the European Union is a gross mistake. The British voted in favour: let them do it! That's their problem. The Government is simply presenting us with a bill that draws the consequences: if they remain, we will do with it and we will have a little fewer MPs; If they leave, we'll have a little more. So we're just adapting to it. As most Europeans, and especially the Irish, say: Brexit, we did not want it, we did not vote it, but we must make the necessary arrangements to deal with it. One of the necessary conditions is, of course, to vote on this bill: as far as technical legislation is concerned, I do not see why we are talking again about the European Commission or Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u64	Actually, you're wondering why we're talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u65	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] It's just a little law! For my part, unlike Mr Mélenchon, I am not a French sovereignist: I think it would be in our best interest to move towards a federation at European level and to truly unite on a continent-wide basis to deal with major countries such as China or India. Let me remind you that the French population accounts for 1% of the world's population!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u66	All we have to do is go to bed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u67	I call Mr Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u68	I am already announcing that the Group of the Republic on the move will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. The purpose of this text is indeed to secure the five seats returned to France. Rejecting it would be tantamount to maintaining legal uncertainty: 15 days before the European elections, it would obviously not be serious! I would also like to go back to what has been said about the draft agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom, which aims, in the event of its withdrawal, to secure the situation of certain French citizens, to prepare and protect our SMEs and our fishermen. To the extent that it seeks to protect our national interests, we must be able to satisfy ourselves with this text. On this subject, Mr. President Mélenchon, you denounce a lack of transparency. I would remind you, however, that the draft was published almost in real time by the Chief Negotiator and that a colour code even made it possible to know the provisions that had already been agreed, those that remained to be negotiated and those on which a disagreement remained. Transparency in the negotiations was therefore complete, which represented an extremely important step forward. Moreover, the postponement of the date of Brexit was due to the vicissitudes and divisions of British political life. By granting additional time in the United Kingdom, we respect the institutions of this country while allowing its inhabitants to agree on how they want to get out of the European Union. It is therefore not a denial of democracy but, on the contrary, a way of respecting British democracy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, with regard to the European Parliament, you who have been a member of it for years, Mr Mélenchon, you know that this Parliament works very differently from ours. The majority cannot be achieved without building coalitions. Our will, in La République en marche, at MODEM and with all those who make up our list – you mentioned our campaign manager, Stéphane Séjourné – is to build a pivotal, pivotal, central group at the heart of the European Parliament, in order to build a majority to move Europe forward. Indeed, if you remain a minority in a corner of the House, you will no longer decide anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u69	Alas!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u70	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u71	The bill we are debating today on "the entry into the European Parliament of elected representatives in France in the 2019 elections" is far from as trivial as it might appear at first glance; President Mélenchon has just shown it in part. It is indeed a kind of Joker bill, "in case" made necessary because of the abracadabrantesque situation created by the disastrous management of the decision to withdraw the United Kingdom from the European Union, taken by referendum in June 2016. The British Prime Minister, Theresa May, having failed on three occasions to obtain the validation by his parliamentary majority of the agreement with the representatives and representatives of the other 27 Member States, the date of Brexit, originally scheduled for 29 March, had to be postponed, first to 12 April and then to 31 October. The European Council of 10 April finally allowed for a flexible postponement: if Theresa May succeeds in having the withdrawal treaty ratified by the end of October, Brexit would be effective on the first day of the month following ratification. If the United Kingdom is still a member of the Union at the time of the Europeans, it will be obliged to participate in the elections. If he does not participate, his exit from the Union will be effective on 1 June as part of a no deal. Uncertainties remain strong, with total political uncertainty. The British, therefore, are preparing for the European elections "in case" and we have to debate them or, as it is said, "discuss the blush." » The text before us is intended to take into account the context described earlier in the European elections with regard to the five additional MEPs that France would obtain as a result of Brexit, as a result of the distribution among the member countries of the British seats that would be left vacant. The postponement of the Brexit implies that in the event of European elections in that country, British MEPs will be elected to Parliament for the 2019-2024 legislature and will sit until the effective date of the withdrawal. In this way, the additional MEPs in our country would act on a delayed basis. The only article of the text provides for the application of European Council Decision 2018/ 937 laying down the composition of the Parliament after withdrawal from the United Kingdom. He said that the election of the seventy-nine Euro MPs of France was taking place at the same time and that the National Census Commission would indicate the elected representatives concerned after election. The text also states that the five elected representatives take office on the actual date of the Brexit, since they are waiting for the following ones to be included in the list. It is the second legislative text on both the European elections and the consequences of Brexit that we have been studying since the beginning of this parliamentary term. For an unwarranted observer, as well as for the majority of this House, always in such a hurry to vote without too much thought, without too much thought, there should be no need to discuss much and even less motions for rejection and dismissal, because all this is supposed to be a mere technical formality. That's nenni! This kind of superficial attitude ignores what is, on the contrary, an opportunity to debate the substance, both on Brexit and, more fundamentally, on what Brexit is called, on what it says about the European Union and on the meaning to be given to the forthcoming elections, for which these five new seats may perhaps be left vacant. Brexit is a case of school, a warning that should alert us to the urgent need to change everything, both at European level and at the level of the policies we are pursuing in our own countries. In March 2016, a few months before the British referendum vote, Peter Sutherland, a former member of the Trilateral Commission – this private organisation, created on the initiative of interest groups, promotes cooperation between the major groupings of North America, Western Europe and Asia –, former European Commissioner, former Director General of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, former President of Goldman Sachs and British Petroleum, thus an expert on these issues, noted, not without some bitterness, in an article of the Financial Times: "One of the most desolating paradoxes about a possible Brexit is that London has achieved great success in shaping a free-trade European Union in its own image. We can't say better! The leaders of the European Union share a similar philosophy and policies with the British ruling class, from its origins until today. In 1957, the Treaty of Rome establishing the European Economic Community placed the liberal dogmas of competition and free trade at the top of the Community building.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u72	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u73	The subsequent Treaties, and in particular the Single European Act of 1986, have only confirmed this. After staying away from it, with relative benevolence – let us remember Churchill's formula: "We are with you, but not with you. Finally, the British leaders considered that the meaning of European integration was sufficiently positive from their point of view to call for a referendum that allowed the country to join the Community in 1973. Margaret Thatcher, British Prime Minister from 1979 to 1990, made it very clear that the objective was: "The whole single market and nothing but the single market. This was the constant political line, followed by all governments, regardless of their political colour, and this was all the more easy as the Labourers of the Blair era were part of the political and economic continuity of Thatcherism, both at national and European level. The dismantling of institutions, particularly labour law, launched by Margaret Thatcher and John Major, his successor, was not called into question by the following Labour governments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u74	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u75	The new conservative wave that followed, with the two Cameron governments, increased labour market liberalization, tightened access to social protection and reduced benefits. Thus, after being the first to have been inflicted on the horses of the new neoliberal doctrine, the British then suffered a decade of particularly brutal austerity after the global financial crisis of 2008-2009. To reduce the deficit, created largely by the bailout of banks, policies have chosen to reduce taxes and spending – a chorus that we have heard a lot and that we will hear again in the coming weeks. Already strong, inequalities have been amplified. As a result, caring, enrolling children in university or moving around have become a luxury for the large number, who chain small, poorly paid jobs. Following a drastic reduction in State social assistance, the Government reduced the funds of local authorities, including cities, from 30 to 40 per cent, resulting in a deterioration of local services. Reforms that attacked the welfare state have affected the most vulnerable: single mothers, people with disabilities, poor workers. The drastic cuts and spending freezes have affected most government programs. At the same time, the London governments have restructured the benefit system by trying to justify this by reducing the unemployment rate from 7% in 2013 to 4% last September. But again – and this is only a little stressed – it is the same people who still pay the high price: a large part of the British, even those who work, suffer from hunger. As economists and sociologists explain, the precarization of work has in fact fuelled poverty. New "zero-hour" contracts or the multiplication of the self-employed on the Uber model have created jobs that either do not allow the poorest to get out of precariousness or lead to mechanisms of desiccation, as people do not have the strength to work at their feet. Protection is also being undermined. Some contribute three hours a month, while others end up with a job without any social protection. The British gig economy, i.e. the economy at work, is all these new small jobs, paid by stamp, without any protection, via internet dating platforms to make households or repair work; for several months we have seen such advertisements bloom on our advertising panels in the metro, transport, etc. This is the type of reform that inspired Emmanuel Macron when, in November 2014 when he was François Hollande's Minister of Economy, he explained on the BBC: "When we compare with the United Kingdom in the 1980s, the main difference is that we did not make the reforms at that time. So the French today recognize that the others decided to move, and that we are the only ones who have not reformed our own system. Beautiful reference! Within the European Union, from Thatcher to Cameron through Blair, the British governments' strategy has been to systematically push for the removal of supposed barriers to market forces, requiring derogations from Community legislation, particularly in the social field; to increase the obstacles to any form of political or monetary union; and to claim without a state of soul to derive the maximum economic benefits from membership of the Union. This has sometimes been done unilaterally but also, often, with the consent of governments such as those of Germany. The connivance with the latter was thus notable on the subject of the enlargement of the Union to the States of Central and Eastern Europe, which was a great success for these two allies, in 2004 and then in 2007. This enlargement significantly increased the possibilities for intra-Community social dumping, in particular by using the status of seconded work – another subject that echoes the French-French debates! It should be recalled that without waiting for the seven-year transitional period provided for before the freedom of movement of workers within Europe was effective, the United Kingdom had decided to open its borders immediately to the nationals of those countries, with the ambition of having a relatively skilled but not demanding workforce in terms of remuneration and working conditions. This is another model for Emmanuel Macron, it seems. All this has social, economic and political consequences: Brexit is the political revenge of the popular classes. In November last year, Philip Alston, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights, published a 20-page report on the sharp increase in social inequality in Britain. Here is the striking picture that he draws from a situation that has nothing to envy to a Dickens novel: "Great Britain is the fifth largest economy in the world, it understands within it many areas of immense wealth, its capital is one of the main centres of global finance, its entrepreneurs are innovative and dynamic, and, despite the current political turmoil, its system of government continues, rightly, to be the envy of a large part of the world. It therefore seems manifestly unfair and contrary to British values that so many people live in poverty. This is obvious to anyone who opens their eyes to the huge growth of food banks and queues that are in front of them, people who sleep on the street, the growth of homelessness, the feeling of deep despair that even pushes the Government" – which the author judges in denial – "to appoint a minister for suicide prevention and push civil society to report in depth on unprecedented levels of loneliness and isolation. And local authorities, particularly in England, which play a key role in establishing a genuine social safety net, have been wiped out by a series of government policies. A record number of libraries closed, community centres and youth centres were reduced and underfunded, public spaces and buildings, including parks and recreation centres, were sold. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u76	What does it have to do with the bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u77	"The results? Mr. Alston continues. "Fourteen million people, one fifth of the population, live in poverty. Four million of them are more than 50 per cent below the poverty line and 1.5 million are without resources, unable to pay for basic necessities. The highly respected Institute for Fiscal Studies predicts a 7 per cent increase in child poverty between 2015 and 2022, and various sources predict poverty rates of up to 40 per cent. In the 21st century, nearly one child in two is poor in the United Kingdom: it is not just a disgrace, it is a social disaster and an economic disaster. » These are Emmanuel Macron's references and the influences that have contributed to the construction of the European Union as we know it. Great wealth in the face of extreme poverty: it was one of the main divisions that structured the British vote in favour of Brexit. This class vote saw the losers and losers of financial globalisation, the populations furthest from the city centres, the oldest, the poorest opt for exit, while the most affluent, urban socio-occupational categories chose to remain in a customised Union for their almost exclusive benefit, from their own admission. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] This democratic expression is far from the scornful caricature that has all too often been made of it, including in this House, until a few moments ago, when the poncifs who have been cunning over an Ignatious and xenophobic people to whom their leaders and leaders would have failed to do enough pro-European "pedagogy" have too often acted as political analysis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u78	Who said that?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u79	In July 2016, Frédéric Lordon brilliantly described the springs of this class contempt so widely shared on both sides of the Channel: "It is proved once again that the dominant, in the broadest sense of the term, not only those who hold the effective levers of power, but those whom their origins or social positions have endowed to put everything within their reach – access to culture, language learning, the possibility of travelling, the moral benefits of cosmopolitanism – the dominant, therefore, do not understand that one can find to be told of this world that is so kind to them, and find of a perfect natural that one immediately takes as null and void the electoral expressions that do not ratify theirs. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u80	Actually, you're for Brexit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u81	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] "Let's say things a little more synthetically: all these good friends of democracy get their ass off with democracy. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u82	Be polite!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u83	It's a quote!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u84	You'll like the rest! For the philosopher, the neoliberal era, opened in Europe by Margaret Thatcher, will thus have seen proliferating what he already described, at the time of the referendum by which the Greek people had rejected the diktat of the troika before being marched on, including by their own government, subject to European injunctions, as a generation of "non-political" leaders and leaders. We were also told earlier that the National Assembly should make technical votes, not politics. Here is what the French philosopher and sociologist Frédéric Lordon pointed out: "Being on the wrong side of domination, we must regret that there are no more cynics. At least they think and don't tell each other stories – nor to us. We owe them the esteem of a form of intelligence. But when cynics are missing, it is the fools who proliferate. Neoliberalism will have been their triumph: they have been everywhere. And first at the top. A generation of non-political politicians. Power to a generation of fools, unable to think, and of course to make politics. Government through ratios is the only horizon of their policy. There is a better understanding of the numberic fetishism that has taken over the whole European construction under their enlightened leadership: 3%, 60%, 2%. This is the summary of "Europe". We understand that these people are reduced to the perplexity of a chicken in front of a pneu when something really political happens – a referendum for example. Perplexity and panic in fact: the resurgence of the denied forces is an unbearable return of the repressed. Whether there are political passions, whether politics is about passions, that was not foreseen in the ratio spreadsheet. » This description, which applies to the leaders of the European Union, applies to the entire generation of leaders who in France and Britain have led to the crisis situation on the continent and to the rejection of European principles and ideals. Here is another description that is worth mentioning: "The ahuric figures of the government of ratios and, in times of great crisis, the hens in a forest of disassembly-pneu. A chicken nightmare. We must watch them turn these poor, disoriented, havetous and incomprehensible beasts, in the etymological sense of the term stupid. They don't know what they're doing. First of all, there's a beautiful luret that ratios have exploded with dache, but the wave of anxiety that makes them feel that it's more serious than that: it might no longer be a matter of ratios. Ratio thinking may no longer be enough. We should do this again: politics. "But how do you do it? We don't know." We know they don't know. The worst part, by the way, is when they act like they know. Let them try to "vision". I would even say more: the worst part is when they tried to do the "project." Holy European Commission, preserve us from "projects"! Governments by the ratios that stifle peoples in the carcan of austerity have created the conditions of disunity, of the opposition of the peoples, of the employees to each other and of the European rejection as they expressed themselves through Brexit. "It's the economy, stupid! They proclaim, like a Bill Clinton, who was precisely one of the founders of the current of the "third way" funest, another major source of inspiration for macroism that succeeds in Marx's so-called exploit of being "at the same time" a historical farce and tragedy. No, fool, it's not the economy, it's politics, it's always politics, it's just politics. So it doesn't matter what the attribution calculations are. The five seats that France may recover, at the end of the tortuous Brexit, will remain ghost seats, occupied by ghost MPs as long as, from London to Berlin, passing through Paris, the European Union's political choices will remain guided by neo-Ordo-liberal dogmas rather than being at the service of the general human and ecological interest. [[Applause on the banks of theFI,SOC andLT groups]] In contrast to what Margaret Thatcher was trying to do, there is an alternative for us. This is what we are building with our allies in Podemos in Spain, the Left Bloc in Portugal, the Red and Green Alliance in Denmark and several other forces that call for a real European hope to be restored, to oppose the government of ratios and to recover the sovereignty that is so lacking, including in the debates that we can have in this assembly, by proclaiming: "Here and now the people".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u85	We come to the explanations of vote. Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u86	We know that this bill is intended to address a representational issue, but the context in which this development is taking place deserves to be recalled, except to omit the destination we want for this renewed and amended Parliament. It takes a strong European Parliament to lead a change of political direction, to break with neoliberal models, the conservatives of the past, to turn the back on the nationalist retreat by giving priority to sustainable jobs, to a secure environment, to social security, to an economic model that will tackle inequalities and the cost of living. Socialists and socio-democrats are for Europe, for a Europe of social protection with strong welfare states, for safety nets and quality public services. We support an effective social dialogue at state and EU level and affirm the need for trade unions to discuss, because this remains the best way to guarantee worker protection and wage increases. As such, we call for a strong and empowered European labour authority to combat social dumping and ensure fair professional mobility throughout Europe. We support the need for a social action plan if we are to translate this European pillar of social rights into binding rules that strengthen protection systems, which respect labour market models and improve living conditions. We are defending a common European vision that guarantees a fair level of taxation and makes it possible to compete at least in terms of corporate taxes. This competition has mostly benefited the strongest and most mobile economic players. The popular and middle classes still suffer from this lack of purchasing power, due to increases in the CSG, VAT and other indirect taxes which clearly show the limits of tax efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u87	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u88	The Europe we want needs a strong Parliament, a new, progressive direction. The Socialist and Related Group will support this motion, but beyond that, we want a constructive debate in the House and we will propose amendments to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u89	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u90	Ms. Obono's speech was intended to shed light on what the previous rejection motion I defended left in the shadows. The vicissitudes of the European Union are not due to fatality but to a policy that has led the British to prefer to leave the Union. I'm very surprised that we never wonder why they're leaving... The only explanation we've had is fake news! They were still reserved for us just now, fresh and then quickly warmed up: on the basis of incorrect information, no doubt disseminated by the Russians, a majority of Englishmen took a decision that committed their homeland's future for decades without really knowing what it was doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u91	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u92	Their Parliament, somewhat in the image of France but in a much more democratic way, was then divided into several groups, some of which – at least one – felt that Brexit should be cancelled. This is the announced result: a triumph of the UKIP – and of the brilliant polemicist Mr Farage – towards which the overwhelming majority of this sector of opinion seems to be turning rather than to any other party of the conservative right. In other words, the disaster continues!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u93	Whose fault?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u94	With the rage of separation, opinion is radicalizing into increasingly hostile positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u95	We'll see.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u96	Don't say, "We'll see! " They voted no and if you re-vote them, they will re-vote no!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u97	I'm not doing anything again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u98	It's a problem for all of us! It is therefore necessary to look for explanations that are less magical than the use of fake news and other nonsense. Our colleague has just done so, philosophically, fundamentally, and that is where I will end. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Nothing is as true among human communities as politics. There is no objective reality that ratios and figures would subsum. Human beings are what they are and therefore know where their interest lies: not in the illusions, in this case, which are spread.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u99	Mr Roland Lescure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u100	It is always possible to try to rewrite history, but the fact is, as you said, that the English voted two years ago in favour of Brexit. They then realized that this was not an easy thing and, you are right, Parliament is now divided as never before. Contrary to what you suggest, I will refrain from revoking the British people, but I imagine that in that case they would again be very divided. The reality is there, you have to live with it. For once, Mrs Obono, I will agree with you: the Members of the European Parliament elected by the British will no doubt be ghost Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u101	That's not what I said.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u102	Our choice is simple, ghost hunters do not exist: you will have to live with this situation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The LaREM Group will of course vote against this motion for referral to committee and we will live by implementing the pragmatism that is the honour of this Government. As you said, this somewhat absurd situation will have to be adapted to the reality that we have to live in.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u103	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u104	If I hear Mr Mélenchon's question about the reason for Brexit, I do not think that Mrs Obono's Marxist reading is the right answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u105	Not a Marxist reading, a political reading!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u106	She was wrong: she gave us a very good academic presentation on the Marxist thinking of the world and of Europe, but in this case we are here to deliberate on a text which, you don't mind, is of a rather technical nature...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u107	We never do technology!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u108	... and aims to solve the problem of the five parliamentarians who will be in excess on 26 May next. The only way is to pass this very simple bill. For the IUD Group, Action and Independents, this motion to refer the matter back to committee is therefore merely a procedural artifice intended to extend the speaking time,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u109	In a parliament, we're talking, you're talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u110	...which is quite damaging given what concerns us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u111	In the general debate, Mrs Constance Le Grip spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u112	Welcome to the kingdom of the Absurd! Now a little over two years ago, the United Kingdom decided, by referendum, to leave the European Union, but it will nevertheless organise elections on 23 May to elect seventy-three Members! Moreover, no formal withdrawal agreement could be adopted by the House of Commons for the political reasons we know. Finally, under the "flexible postponement", the European Council on 10 April extended to 31 October the deadline for the finalisation of the withdrawal process and the vote on a text by Westminster. We are therefore meeting today to establish by law the principle of 5 additional seats for the French parliamentary representation. Once again: welcome to the kingdom of the Absolute! At this stage, this would virtually increase the quota of French representatives in the European Parliament from 74 to 79. In fact, we're not quite at this addition: we're instead taking 5 to 79 and, in a way, putting 5 seats in the refrigerator. Of course, the Republicans can only show a sense of responsibility and work to ensure that the French electoral process of 26 May takes place in the best possible conditions. We can therefore only contribute to the legal security of this system devoting five additional seats and laying down the procedures for taking up office of the five French virtual representatives in the European Parliament once the withdrawal from the United Kingdom has been definitively announced and the seventy-three British MEPs have left the latter. I will not go back to Brexit, nor to my political family's rather harsh assessment of how the Government – this is our view – has been slow to anticipate the consequences of Brexit...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u113	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u114	... for our businesses, our citizens, our customs officers, our port facilities – I think, more precisely, at our common border with the United Kingdom, in Calais, an issue on which we have already had ample opportunity to express ourselves. On the other hand, I would like to return to an absolutely essential subject: that of voter turnout in the May 26 election, when today, Monday, 13 May, the official campaign begins and we all continue to lead it. For many, this campaign has no European but the name both the national stakes, the national dramatization orchestrated by each other – dare I say by either of the two protagonists of the second round of the 2017 presidential election... – took precedence over a genuine democratic and pluralist debate, a debate informed by the confrontation between ideas, visions and European proposals. Never in our country have we had such a little European European debate. We have never experienced such a scathing of the European democratic debate. Believe me: for more than seven years, I participated in two European election campaigns, in 2009 and 2014, which were in no way comparable to the one we are undergoing today. Is this to be put at the rate of the change of method of voting desired by the Republic in motion? Probably, in part. In February 2018, we had fought against this reversal, namely the abandonment of a territorialized voting system and the return to a national list vote. We have denounced the perverse effects of this method, which ignores the necessary territorial anchoring of the European elected representatives and the needs of proximity so expected between voters and elected representatives. The Government told us that we were going to see what we were going to see. Mrs Jacqueline Gourault, who represented him in our debates, deplored the low turnout in the European elections in the National Assembly's rostrum, which "weakens the legitimacy of MEPs and ultimately weakens democracy. So we were going to see what we were going to see with the national list which, according to her, would "make it possible to become more interested in our fellow citizens in elections that are increasingly decisive for their individual destiny as well as for their collective destiny. » In an effort to pay extreme attention to the words of the executive, I would add that, according to Mrs Gourault, the national constituency "was the best solution" because it "will make it possible to propose to the French clear debates, with clear options on the confrontation of European projects. » What an error of appreciation – or an attempt at manipulation! We are far from what Mrs. Gourault then, Mrs. Loiseau sold us at the time! All the indicators of participation are bad, all! In 2014, the turnout was 42% of the electorate; It is now estimated, at best, at 40%. Many surveyors and analysts see it even below and, therefore, historically weak. The return to the national list desired by the current majority has therefore been chosen under false pretexts – this is the conclusion we must reach – and seems to lead to a very strong lack of interest by the French in this electoral deadline. On the other hand, I return to what I briefly said earlier: the nationalization of the voting system leads to a nationalization of the debates and the issues at stake. This nationalization, this dramatization, this artificial cleavage wanted and installed by the head of state between him and the extremists, sometimes called populists, nationalists or others. As a result: a bustling of the European debate, the disappearance of the contradictory debate, the evaporation of the democratic confrontation of ideas, proposals and European projects! It's sorry, it's dangerous for democracy. In the short term, it may certainly serve the electoral interests of some, but all this seems to us to be very detrimental. We can see that the Head of State plays this dramatization...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u115	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u116	... because he decided to display himself everywhere and become the true conductor of the campaign, the true top of the list of the majority. One last word. In the Committee on Laws, Secretary of State Laurent Nunez justified his refusal of the amendments of our socialist colleagues to change the method of distribution of the remains and to move from the highest average to the highest average, saying: "We are looking for clarity and homogeneity in the method of voting and we would not really be there." These are the words of Secretary of State Laurent Nunez, which at this stage we can only approve. We hope that the same principle of clarity and homogeneity will prevail when, this summer, through the constitutional review, we address the issue of the introduction of proportional representation in parliamentary elections. Two methods of voting: a majority, a proportional,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u117	Like in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u118	...so two categories of deputies, elected differently. All of this will be fought against by virtue of this principle of clarity and homogeneity of the voting method promoted by the Secretary of State himself. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] To the benefit of this information, in view of the fact that we are suffering the situation – we cannot change it or transform it to our advantage – and regretting that our various and repeated warnings on the harmful effects of the voting method for the European elections have not been heard, in a spirit of responsibility, the Republicans will vote in favour of the single article of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u119	Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u120	On 11 April, at an extraordinary European Council meeting on the eve of the Brexit date, the Member States agreed to postpone the departure of the United Kingdom until 31 October. This date, after the European election, raises the problem of the distribution of British seats. Indeed, the European Council of 28 June 2018 fixed the distribution of seats among the Member States by limiting the number of parliamentarians to 705 and redistributing 27 of the 73 seats in the United Kingdom. These seats were distributed among thirteen Member States in accordance with the principle of degressive proportionality, as the rapporteur pointed out very rightly, in order to reflect the demographic changes in the Member States. For example, France had to recover 5 seats, increasing its European parliamentarians from 74 to 79. These additional seats are not anodized; France, which had hitherto been underrepresented, would thus enjoy greater influence in the European Parliament. The position defended by the President of the Republic at this European Council on 11 April was, in our view, the right one: we must respect the will of the British people expressed in the referendum and continue our journey at 27 as soon as possible. The interests of France and the European Union must be our only compass in this period of political crisis across the Channel. In this respect, the MODEM and related group, as it has always stated in the past, considers it necessary to respect the sovereign decision of the British people to leave the European Union. We will not comment on this decision, which belongs only to him; But we must draw the consequences in the best interests of our country. By setting the UK's exit date by 31 October 2019 at the latest, the compromise achieved in part through the action of the President of the Republic helps to protect the constitution of the future European Commission. Nevertheless, we remain compelled to review the arrangements for the allocation of seats in the European Parliament during the election on 26 May. The seventy-nine representatives of France will be elected simultaneously, including the five Members whose entry into office will be postponed until the effective exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union. While this decision of the European Council is directly applicable, there is no text specifying how these five representatives are to be appointed. That is precisely the purpose of this bill and its single clause. This is therefore a technical subject: it is therefore necessary to clarify the method of determining the five future Members whose entry into office will be postponed, and to provide for their appointment in the framework of the proclamation of the results. In concrete terms, on 26 May, the French will elect seventy-nine representatives to the European Parliament; seventy-four will sit at the beginning of July, and five more will sit at the beginning of July when the Brexit becomes effective, no later than October 31, 2019. Thus, proportional representation in the European Parliament of the lists elected to the highest average will be respected and the vote of the French will be unchanged. The MODEM and related groups have no objections to submit; it will vote on the text as it stands. Now the ball is in the camp of our British friends who will have to make a decision by 31 October; Otherwise, they will have to leave the European Union without agreement. This postponement of Brexit, as we can see, raises many questions and creates great uncertainties for our citizens, as well as for economic actors – I am thinking in particular of the fisheries sector. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] In any event, we hope that the British will soon emerge from their internal political crisis and finally take a decision on their future in the European Union. This decision will enable the five additional representatives of France to work, together with the seventy-four other Members of the European Parliament, in the service of the European Union, France and the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u121	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u122	Today we are considering your new draft law on the entry into office of the representatives of the European Parliament elected in France in the 2019 elections. It aims to take account of the fact that the United Kingdom has not, to date, left the European Union, and of the consequences of this postponement of the Brexit on the arrangements for the allocation of French seats in the European Parliament. Indeed, as a result of the Brexit, five additional seats must return to France; However, since Brexit is still not effective, it is necessary to postpone the entry into office of these five additional MEPs elected by France. While this bill is of a technical nature, it also has a political dimension, since it legally reflects choices on how we choose to ensure that the various political sensitivities are represented in the European Parliament. To that end, two methods of distribution were available to the Government. The first is the distribution to the highest average: it is to calculate for each list what would be the average of the votes obtained per seat allocated if one additional seat were given to each of them. The list with the highest average is given a seat. The operation is repeated as many times as there are still seats to be filled. The second is the distribution of the largest remainder: the unfilled seats are allocated to each list in descending order of the unearned votes after the first distribution. You have chosen to make a distribution according to the first method, that of the highest average. On the contrary, the Socialist and related group proposes that these five seats be allocated according to the rule of the strongest rest – we have tabled an amendment to that effect. Indeed, this proportional method of voting guarantees greater pluralism. If this rule could not be introduced for the entire voting, the allocation key for these additional seats could be more equitable. That is why we will abstain from voting on the bill, unless its wording changes during the discussion. Beyond the provisions it contains, this text also provides an opportunity to draw up several observations, while the European elections are on the horizon, which will take place in less than two weeks' time. The first observation is that of France's isolation on the European stage: in August 2018, the President of the Republic indicated that he wanted to "revisit the taboos". On the contrary, Europe is at a standstill today: isolation of the French position on the Brexit, a Franco-German couple at a standstill... There have been many European setbacks for the past 24 months. On Brexit, in particular, French isolation is striking: while the President, in his speech by the Sorbonne, indicated that he wanted to avoid "focusing all our energy on our internal divisions, as we have been doing for too long now, instead of losing our debates in a European civil war", it was well divided that the Twenty-seven, and France in the lead, appeared when we granted the United Kingdom a further extension of the deadline to leave the Union. The second observation is that Brexit sums up the current European dilemma. On the one hand, the choice, in June 2016, of British citizens to leave the European Union reminds us that accession to the European project is not definitive and must never be taken for granted: it is possible for a State to get rid of it. On the other hand, the procrastination of the United Kingdom when cutting the European cord clearly shows that leaving Europe is not a neutral choice; It has a cost – economic, social and political. In the face of the obstacle, at the edge of the cliff, our neighbours from across the Channel are procrastination and grabbing themselves, because leaving the European Union is, I repeat, not an insignificant choice: it is an act of strong rupture which no one in this House would like to arrive at, but it is a peril which awaits all the nations that have invested themselves in the construction of the European project. It is the same contradiction between the desire for exit and the temptation of the reman who is passing through European public opinion: there is a mistrust of Europe at the same time as an aspiration to another Europe. To respond to these contradictions which draw European citizens, this is all at stake in the forthcoming European elections, of this choice which the French, as well as all Europeans, will have to make in less than two weeks' time. Consideration of this text today, at the last minute, is a symbol of these uncertainties and concerns about our common future. On this occasion, I would like to express my deep concern about the way in which the President of the Republic formulates the European debate: he prefers to divide and accentuate the divisions rather than unite. The political blackmail in which he is trying to lock up the campaign of the European elections – he or the extreme right – is not worthy of the stakes on which European citizens will have to pronounce themselves. Worse, he's dangerous, besides being misleading. It is dangerous because if you lock yourself in an exclusive fight with a chosen opponent, you end up presenting it as the only credible alternative. And then we advance the one we dismantle! As such, the propaganda video of the Government Information Service published in November 2018 is particularly revealing. This far-right blackmail is also misleading, because at European level, the projections give two groups in mind: the Social Democrats and the Conservatives. Socialists and Social Democrats defend Europe – I repeat: a Europe of social protection, with strong welfare states, with safety nets, with quality public services. The vote for a regulated and protective Europe is therefore not the vote for the current majority, nor the vote for an extremist or populist list, but the Socialist and Social Democratic vote, the only credible alternative in the European Union. We want an effective social dialogue; In order to do so, we need trade unions, which are necessary interlocutors. We support a social action plan, which is essential to translate the European pillar of social rights into binding rules that strengthen social protection systems and labour market models and improve living conditions. We want a strong Europe; Europe needs a strong Parliament, but also a new, reformist and progressive orientation. It is in this way that we can get out of the crisis that we are experiencing, and finally make the Europe of the peoples, when it is today only that of the States.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u123	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u124	We have an obligation to pass this bill, which is a necessary consequence of the decision to postpone the date of Brexit again. In this way, a new stage in the preparations for the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union, not originally foreseen, and creating uncertainties and assumptions, is under way. Indeed, while the withdrawal of the United Kingdom should have been effective by 30 March, the exit agreement drawn up by the European and British negotiators has still not been ratified by the British Parliament. Moreover, since the conclusion of this agreement in November 2018, nothing has happened as planned. The vote in the House of Commons, several times rejected, finally led to a result largely unfavourable to the text, not one, nor two, but three times. It should also be noted that at least one third of Prime Minister Teresa May's majority voted against. Finally, after asking for a first extension of the Brexit date, the United Kingdom asked the 27 leaders of the European Union for a second postponement, which they had just granted on 11 April. The British will have benefited suddenly from two successive postponements, the last one, flexible, being valid until 31 October 2019. These procrastinations demonstrate, if necessary, how far the supporters of the exit from the European Union are no longer at all certain of the merits of their approach or of the supposedly obvious benefits of Brexit. We could also ask ourselves how the decision to grant an additional period of time serves the interests of the Union and its Member States, especially since it does not solve the internal problems of the United Kingdom, which are rather democratic and are not the result of a lack of time. With this deadline de facto returning the date of exit of the United Kingdom after the date of the European elections, we are forced to consider reversing the entry into office of some of the European parliamentarians who will be elected on 26 May next. The aim of this draft law is therefore to implement the decision of the European Council of 28 June 2018 on the composition of the European Parliament. In accordance with the principle of degressive proportionality, and in order to reflect the demographic development of the countries of the Union, the Union allocates twenty-seven of the seventy-three seats previously allocated to the United Kingdom among fourteen Member States. It also provides for the possibility of deferring the appointment of 27 elected representatives to the European Parliament in 2019, in the event that, at the beginning of the new legislature, the United Kingdom remains a member of the European Union. In addition to France, 13 Member States of the Union could therefore see an increase in the number of their representatives, with the risk, however, that these additional elected representatives should not delay the date of their entry into office: Italy, the Netherlands, Denmark, Ireland, Spain, Sweden, Austria, Finland, Poland, Slovakia, Estonia, Romania and Croatia. This is therefore not a Franco-French problem. The method of appointing the five additional elected representatives granted to France following the forthcoming departure of the United Kingdom of the European Union should be adapted. It is uboseque, but necessary from a legal point of view: pending the definitive hypothetical departure of the United Kingdom, we must leave at least the last five out of the seventy-nine seats in France vacant temporarily. This bill also specifies the method by which the elected representatives concerned will be appointed when the results are proclaimed: the last five seats will be allocated to proportional representation to the highest average according to the rule laid down in article 3 of the Act of 7 July 1977. The national commission for the census of votes, mentioned in article 22 of the same law, will declare the results of the poll by Thursday, May 30, 2019 at the latest, designating on this occasion the elected representatives whose entry into office will be postponed. Until their term of office has officially begun, these five elected parliamentarians will not be able to be opposed to the rights and obligations attached to the status of representatives in the European Parliament, particularly as regards incompatibilities. They may, however, be called upon, in their capacity as the following list, to occupy a seat which has become vacant for whatever reason, even before the United Kingdom leaves the European Union. We rarely have the opportunity to speak in this Chamber about the election of representatives to the European Parliament. Europe and its institutions, as they operate today, have indeed become, for too many of our fellow citizens, a subject of distrust rather than hope. Europe is often criticized. It is thus accused – sometimes rightly – of increasing standards in areas where its competence does not seem essential or, conversely, of not legislating in certain areas of public action where credible answers can only be provided at European level. The European Union must find a new breath by promoting democratic accession and ensuring the protection of the rights of its citizens. If European citizens do not feel protected, they will indeed continue to turn away from it and this great project from the ashes of the Second World War will eventually break up until it disappears or is no more than an empty shell. Europe must be a tool of power and not an excuse for weakness. In this context, the elections on 26 May are an important issue. The UDI, Agir and Independent Group supports the adoption of this text, both because of its modalities and its purpose. However, we hope that the British will find a rapid and democratic way to give concrete expression to their will to leave the European Union permanently, or to return to this choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u125	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u126	Through this bill, we must put an end to an absurdity for which the European Union is responsible. Emmanuel Macron and Jean-Claude Juncker – this great manito of the organisation of tax evasion within the European Union – have shown great authoritarianism to force the British to accept a Brexit agreement that their representatives had already refused on several occasions. Emmanuel Macron and his policy have become a real push for the people and the next European election, a real referendum, will soon prove it. The great national blabla gave the illusion that citizens would be heard: in vain! The obvious aim was to avoid a real public debate leading to a popular decision. For some time, the referendum deciding on the options resulting from the major debate was postponed, for fear that it would be unfavourable. Because Macron is afraid of the people. Only a democratic break-in, in his own words, gave him access to power. Despite all the outrageous manipulations put in place since then to reiterate the exploit, the first vote since the legislative elections was announced as a sanction vote. For fear of the people, you refused the referendum of citizens' initiative, the famous RIC, yet very much requested by the French. You seek by all means to do without the people, to circumvent their decisions, to ignore their voices, to suppress their protests. Similarly, you would have liked to avoid the referendum on the privatisation of Paris airports, but the parliamentary and popular opposition will force you to do so. We are already beginning the collection of 4.7 million citizen signatures. Be certain, we will get the necessary signatures. The President of the Republic has committed himself as much as possible to the European election, distorting the rules of fair speaking time of the candidates' supporters. He campaigned, at the expense of the State and, consequently, of all taxpayers, for months. His endless interventions have been aired complacently by the major media, live and for hours. Macron even made public his commitment to electoral propaganda on his party's list, which is unprecedented under the Fifth Republic, when, traditionally, the President of the Republic sought to respect a minimum of neutrality in order to appear as the president of all the French and not the leader of a clan. But that man has no limit. So he himself decided that the next European election would be a real anti-Macron referendum: wish it! In any case, its policy of dismantling France derives directly from the European Commission's injunctions. To vote against Juncker's politics or to vote against Macron is the same: he is the little follower with a docile enthusiasm. We must get out of the treaties and carry out a real social policy to share the immense wealth we produce, to restore our public services and popular sovereignty. But to get out of the treaties, you have to beat Macron in the election! This will be an immense signal of what we have been saying in this forum for months: the French people do not agree with this policy. He did not agree with privatisation. We are bitterly sorry for the motorways. We saw the fiasco – decided again by Macron – of the one at Toulouse airport. Similarly, the French people do not want the destruction of the public railway service. But to put an end to Macron's privatization process, we have to get out of the treaties. Do you realize that the railway package that orders it has been voted on in the European Parliament with 24 votes! Macronists and socialists hand in hand not to reject him! We must get out of the treaties because the French people can no longer afford the morgue of the ultra-rich who practice tax evasion. He asked for justice before the tax system because the European treaties organised tax evasion, in the heart of Europe: Luxembourg, Ireland, the Netherlands and Malta, to name but a few, served as a great laundry machine for dirty money, including money from organised crime and terrorism. It is necessary to get out of the treaties in order to combat seconded work, which organizes competition between peoples and even between fellow citizens because one can be seconded by working within one's own country. Finally, treaties must be removed to prevent the destruction of the public service, which will begin its consideration once it has been completed. The European obsession with the 3% deficit and gifts to the rich give Macron an easy justification for his great state destruction operation. There is, however, another reason to beat Macron in the ballot box and get out of the treaties: it has become urgent to embark on the great ecological transition to deal with climate change. When we can't wait, what does Macron do? Nothing, except time and talk. On the one hand, it multiplies the major announcements for the climate and the Paris agreements, on the other it signs anti-ecological free trade treaties, such as CETA. He claims "Make our planet great again", and self-proclaims champion of the earth, but he organizes the great and absurd move of the world. He tweeted to ban glyphosate in three years, but his majority refused twice to include it in the law! On this point, a parliamentary report is timely, according to which glyphosate is no more carcinogenic than red meat – arguments rebuffed by Monsanto lobbyists for years. He claims to embody the new world but his deputies are about to sit in the European Parliament in a group, the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe – ALDE – which, until 2018, received funding from multinationals like Bayer Monsanto. One hundred multinational companies alone are responsible for more than 70% of global greenhouse gas emissions, but Macron is doing nothing to stop them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u127	Mr. Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u128	On the contrary, it unfolds the red carpet so that they continue to pollute in the name of supply policy. In the world, 26 billionaires own as much as half of humanity, and the 0.5 per cent of the richest are responsible for 13 per cent of CO emissions because of their creepy lifestyle, made unnecessary and ostentatious spending, such as the very polluting yachts. While the 50 per cent of the poorest are responsible for only 10 per cent of these emissions, it is on them that Macron weighs the effort in France, refusing to tax air kerosene and increasing the prices of diesel on which so many people who have no choice but their car to move, without having the means to change their vehicle. The sixth mass extinction of living species is initiated. Insects may no longer exist in a hundred years, birds disappear, marine animal populations collapse. The causes are known: artificialization of soils and deforestation, massive use of pesticides, overfishing. What's Macron doing? Nothing. The ban on electric fishing was removed from the European Parliament by Younous Omarjee, MEP of France, and it took a minority group to put it on the agenda for it to be voted on in the National Assembly. The current commitments of the Paris Accords are leading us towards a three-degree path. Despite all the fine last-minute phrases about ecology – the story of re-scoring its coat of arms – CO emissions in France increased by 3% in 2017 instead of 5%. Macron "Champion of the Earth" is a scam: he builds highways or supports large unnecessary projects like the Montagne d'Or – before he fell off on this last point: it was bad like that! It continues to distribute Total's authorizations for the drilling and installation of palm oil plants. On the other hand, as far as the energy transition is concerned, it does nothing to prevent public and private investment in fossil fuels! Nice hypocrisy! As far as nuclear power is concerned, rather than planning a gradual and reasoned exit, it hastened to do nothing. Even the closure of the old Fessenheim power plant, a sea serpent, already, of the previous quinquennium and again promised by the candidate Macron, has still not intervened, subordinated that it is to the hypothetical opening of the EPR of Flamanville, this disaster. Enough words: urgent actions are needed for a popular ecology. Let us end the impunity of multinationals by applying the polluter pays principle, and stop financing fossil fuels. Let us develop alternatives to all-cars and urban sprawl through a moratorium on shopping centres, and renationalize highways. Let us change the agricultural model by stopping the use of glyphosate and other pesticides by introducing solidarity protectionism and by giving access to a healthy and organic diet for all, free of animal suffering. Let us move to 100% renewable energy by leaving nuclear power, by developing a plan for vocational training and retraining and by ceasing to privatize all-va, in particular hydroelectric dams. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This text of you is the absurd conclusion of an absurd situation. So there is an urgent need to beat Macron in the election. Indeed, we cannot wait to begin the ecological transition and develop a popular ecology. The European election is an opportunity to make a choice of society, that of sharing wealth rather than competition between peoples and the organisation of their opposition. The 26th of May will therefore be the occasion for an anti-Macron referendum.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u129	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u130	The draft law on the entry into office of the representatives of the European Parliament elected in France in the 2019 elections is the umpteenth episode of this incredible twisted show of Brexit. In this bad film, the European Union plays a particular role, that of putting as many sticks in the wheels of the United Kingdom to make it pay as much as possible, to him or in any case to his people, his exit from our union, all with the aim of discouraging the ambitions of other peoples to get out of it one day. As with the referendum on the 2005 European Constitutional Treaty, which was largely rejected by the French and Dutch, the European Union is trying to regain its hands after the vote of a people who do not choose what it had planned. After the bill voted in disaster at the end of last year in the National Assembly, which empowered the French Government to legislate by order in order to organize itself at best in view of Brexit, we are still in the Chamber to vote, as a matter of urgency, a text-pansement. Because, from a twist to a twist, no one knows what the Brexit is like. The communities of expatriates, on both sides of the English Channel, are rightly concerned about the most complete blur in which this divorce takes place. Economic forces no longer know how to dance; The people are debunked. Since the divorce could not be signed definitively before the European elections, the United Kingdom is therefore going back to the elections by electing MEPs who will only sit for a few days, a few months or perhaps throughout the legislature, no one knows. The European Union has allocated the British seats after the official request of the United Kingdom to withdraw from the European Union, but it seems to have burned down the steps a little bit: by wanting to increase the number of Member States' seats according to demographic changes, it has, in fact, endorsed the idea that Brexit is going to go well, or in any case that it will find a way out before May 2019. History now proves to us that this was a huge calculation error. It was difficult, it is true, to imagine things upstream, but could such a reform not have waited for 2024? This would have avoided creating a contingent of phantom MEPs, who will live their mandate in a completely new way, with the possibility of never sitting. It would certainly have been better not to revise the national contingents for these elections, especially since there was no pressure. If the European Union had not rushed, we would therefore have had a mandate to 751 Members of the European Parliament, including the British contingent, and then to 678 Members of the European Parliament until 2024, after the actual Brexit and the departure of the 73 Members of the European Parliament from the United Kingdom. Then, and only then, it would have been time to review things, possibly to raise the total contingent to 705 elected, as the present reform provides. On the other hand, beyond the bill we are debating, concern is about the future method of calculating the "post-Brexit" quota. Depending on the calculation method chosen, one or two seats will be able to switch. On this point, the text refers to the Act of 7 July 1977, which provides, in article 3, that "The seats shall be distributed among the lists having obtained at least 5 per cent of the votes cast by proportional representation according to the rule of the highest average. » First of all, we have always been reluctant to meet the 5% threshold, which largely affects political plurality. I would add that most of our European partners do not apply it: in Germany, the very idea of a threshold is considered unconstitutional. A list may therefore have elected representatives regardless of the percentage obtained, even the lowest. We had already asked, by way of an amendment, to lower this threshold to 3%, which we felt was a bit fairer. Secondly, the highest-average distribution rule is not the best in that it favours the lists that obtain the most votes. Indeed, it is a question of calculating the ratio between the remaining votes and the number of seats already obtained by the list. It therefore helps lists that will already have elected representatives: for others, it is a double penalty. That is why we have tabled an amendment to propose, instead of this rule of the highest average, that of the "strongest remaining". Such a calculation allows the distribution of seats according to the rest of the votes on each list, which mechanically benefits the lists that have not obtained the electoral quotient, since they are the ones that have the most votes on the side, "not used". This would ensure a better representativeness of the French quota in the European Parliament. Such a change would also send a positive signal to the French electorate. At the time of the crisis of representativeness experienced by political parties, even trade unions and more broadly all intermediary bodies, it seems important to use all the means at our disposal to broaden the representation of elected chambers. By adopting our amendment, we would send to the French the message that we take into account the smallest lists, guaranteeing the great political diversity that prevails systematically during the elections in France, especially on the occasion of the Europeans. Let us not forget, in fact, that the European Parliament is suffering terribly from the remoteness of the European population. It is perceived as unhelpful and fragile by a ubiquitous European Commission and an all-powerful bureaucracy. Sending Members of Parliament with small lists also means guaranteeing a plurality of paths, political commitments and ideas. Our group will therefore defend its amendment; If it is rejected, as it was in committee, it will abstain from the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u131	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u132	The Brexit is more and more similar to this famous film entitled An endless day, in which a hero in spite of himself, camped by Bill Murray, wakes up every morning to relive forever the same day, without any way out on the horizon. Since 23 June 2016, the date of the referendum that saw the British vote for Brexit at 52%, this is probably what many British citizens must feel in the face of the UK's stalemate. So, two years after this exit vote from the European Union, the United Kingdom is about to vote for the European elections at the end of the month, as confirmed by its Government last Tuesday. The least we can say is that our British friends have a sense of suspense! It is not up to us on this side of the English Channel to judge the discussions in the British Parliament with a view to reaching an agreement for the time being, but it must be noted that all this is the result of a certain impreparation on the part of the Brexit supporters. "Nothing easier! However, they rang in front of their voters, far from the phlegm that the British had used to us. And let us not forget that the English voters led the Scots and Northern Irish in their wake, who voted mostly against Brexit. This vote also has important consequences for the other countries of the European Union, which have been stuck in negotiations for the past two years. The European project thus seems to be at a standstill. Many questions arise, therefore, about the presence of British parliamentarians in the European Parliament and about the fact that the British Government can still theoretically have a voice in the European Council and block certain measures that would be contrary to British interests. Faced with the fait accompli, we have no choice but to foresee all the consequences of the current situation of stalemate, including elections, only two weeks from the polls. This is the only reason for this bill, which aims to provide for the arrangements for the entry into office of the five additional European parliamentarians which France has been allocated to the British quota. Indeed, the European Council had allocated 27 of the 73 seats which had so far returned to the United Kingdom between 14 Member States, depending on their respective populations and previous distributions. Since France had obtained five additional seats compared to the 2014-2019 legislature, the number of its representatives had to increase from 74 to 79. The draft law therefore provides that these five candidates, whose entry into office would be postponed until the effective departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union, will be appointed, as part of the proclamation of the results, by the National Committee for the Census of Votes established by the Act of 7 July 1977 on the election of representatives to the European Parliament. They will be included in the decision to declare the results published, at the latest, on the Thursday following polling day. We believe that it is indeed common sense to proclaim these results as soon as possible and not on the actual date of a hypothetical Brexit, for two reasons. The first is that we will still be in the throes of the campaign of the European elections, so better able to capture the interest of our fellow citizens in this unprecedented consequence, which will have been acted upon at the same time as the election of the "full" Members. The work of the National Commission can therefore be carried out in full transparency. Secondly, from the moment when the rules of designation are known, delaying the proclamation would make no sense, since everyone, from home, would then be able to take his calculator and know to which lists the seats will return. It would, in short, be to postpone what can be done the same day. If the candidates concerned are to be proclaimed very quickly, their entry into office will take place only on the date of the effective withdrawal of the United Kingdom. Before that date, they shall be assimilated to the following lists, positioned immediately after the last candidate on their list entered into office. If necessary, they will replace a representative whose seat becomes vacant. In this case, they will themselves be replaced by their next list, under the same conditions. This mechanism seems fair to us, provided that the national commission and the various commentators ensure, in their communication to the voters, that the candidates placed in this situation after the vote will not necessarily be those who will take office only in the event of Brexit. It will be no more or less a matter of specifying that a particular list will benefit from a bonus in the context of a possible exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union. In the view that the wording of paragraph 1 of the single article could be clearer, we support the rapporteur's amendment, which proposes a new wording of the article and provides some clarifications, in particular on the consideration of incompatibilities. As I said, this bill is not the result of a situation that we have chosen, but of the situation in which our British neighbours are placed. In these troubled times, we must preserve the future and ensure that we maintain the best possible relations with our neighbours, be they English, Welsh, Scottish or Irish. What if, as in the film One day without end, the solution, to get out of this impasse, was not to strengthen the European Union's ties with the British people? For, and perhaps this is the essential point, Brexit clearly reveals a crisis of the European idea, but also of the nation states, of the European states. These States have gradually formed, for most of them, from the 16th century onwards. And, often, they claimed to build a Europe in their own image. This is what happened with the Habsburgs, then with Louis XIV and Napoleon, but also with Adolf Hitler. Each time, the most powerful country in Europe intends to put Europe to its boot. But it doesn't work. To the point that it was in 1945, when Western Europeans were dominated by almost non-European countries – almost because the United States is close to us in terms of civilization and Russia, at least in its western part, belongs to Europe – and Germany occupied by foreign armies, which was born the European idea. That is to say, it was the European states that had led us to chaos! Today, these states are looking for themselves; between Europe on the one hand and the regions on the other, they have difficulty in inventing a new eldorado, a future. A clear illustration of this is provided by the Brexit, where we see English nationalism clashing with other visions. What will Scotland do, indeed, when Brexit comes? There is much to bet that she will ask for a referendum on her independence again and that, this time, she will win it; It will therefore ask to join the European Union. So that if the states destroy themselves in a way, the European idea will continue. The same problem will arise for Northern Ireland, probably the country on which Brexit will have the most consequences, because of the famous border that our Irish friends are very afraid to see reappear, and with it the civil war that they experienced from the 1960s to the Good Friday of 1998. The question of the status of Northern Ireland may be raised at some point in time. The Welsh are worked by the same questions. One might think that this is only a British question; But that's not the case. See Spain, the tension over Catalonia and the way in which "Spanish" elements use justice to keep people who have been freely elected on a programme in prison for the past two years. It is clear why the nationalisms of the large states are struggling to deal with Europe: it involves negotiating with many when they are already struggling to do so with their own regions. And France is not exempt from this: Corsicans defend claims which I think are relatively moderate, but which find no echo in Paris. It's a mistake to me. Because we have to invent a new form of European integration – otherwise the different European states will simply be dominated by non-European countries. We have, in a way, luck: history – the industrial revolution began at the end of the 18th century in the United Kingdom – has given us a quite exceptional strength, which has enabled our countries to become great colonial countries, which have dominated the world. But we must be aware of the fact that this time is over. When Chinese, like Indians, are more than a billion, France weighs 1% of the world's population. I therefore appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen: let us be lucid about the stakes and the need to evolve by being both more European and more local.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u133	I call Mr Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u134	For many months now, the 27 Member States of the European Union have been forced to deal with the uncertainties that undermine Britain's domestic policy and delay the effective entry into force of Brexit. Faced with these uncertainties, the course followed by our majority has always been very clear: Brexit is a sovereign choice that must be respected, but cannot be made at the expense of our own interests. This is the line we held last January when we considered the bill enabling the Government to take by order measures to prepare for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. The idea was then: to prepare Brexit calmly, whatever the outcome, and to achieve the most favourable situation possible for our fellow citizens. The logic here is similar: the only purpose of the text under discussion is to achieve the most favourable situation possible for those who will be elected in the elections on 26 May. I will not go back to the redistribution of British seats in the European Parliament caused by the Brexit, nor to the beneficial effects of this redistribution for France, whose number of Members of the European Parliament so far did not represent recent demographic developments. The five seats we obtained after negotiations in the Council in June 2018, we had to secure them, better define their legal existence the time that Brexit became effective, and specify how the candidates concerned would start to function. Thanks to the work of our Government and the work of our rapporteur, whom I would obviously like to welcome, this has been done; It is to be welcomed. If no bill can specify the date when the United Kingdom will leave the European Union, we have at least been given the opportunity to bring greater certainty and serenity to those who will represent us in the European Parliament in the next parliamentary term. I am therefore surprised at the tone that some of us have been able to adopt this afternoon or in our previous debates on the subject...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u136	... whereas the purpose of the text is legal and consists of securing the French seats in the European Parliament. I am surprised that some people are using this debate as a pretext to question the action of the President of the Republic, particularly with regard to Brexit. I will simply remind them that, at the European summit held a few weeks ago, many of our partners wanted to postpone Brexit for many months or even, for some, to 2020 or even 2021, and that, if we agreed on 31 October 2019, it is to France that we owe it. This is a result that we must welcome. With regard to the widening gap between European citizens and the European institutions – as between French citizens and Europe – if some blame it for the reform of the electoral system, which has re-established a national constituency instead of regional constituencies, I believe that the disaffection between a part of the French and Europe has much deeper roots, which should encourage those who use this kind of argument to a little more modesty: I want to talk about the lack of interest that European subjects have long inspired our political parties, which have ceased to nurture a European political ambition and have become accustomed to making Europe responsible for all our ills. I am also surprised that some people are using the text to denounce the supposed under-representation of the territories that will emerge from the European elections. Indeed, the representation of the territories on the lists depends on the political parties: if some, for example on the right, decide to include four Francilians among their first ten candidates, it is their business, but they do not come to tell us then that the territories will be poorly represented! On the other hand, I am a little less surprised when the speaker from France, who has left the Chamber, makes us the coup of the referendum for or against the action of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u137	It's out of the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u138	It is obviously not up to the challenge, which is the future of France and Europe. That those who reason in this way do not claim that the French and French would turn away from the European question: it is the political parties that depart from it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Let us therefore return to the substance of the text, and let us make sure that the future Members of the European Parliament invest as much as possible in the next five years so that France can regain its full influence in the European Parliament: I repeat, it goes on the future of the country and that of Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u140	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u141	On 26 May, the French will choose the seventy-nine Members who will represent them in the European Parliament, but not all of them will sit immediately: five of them will be delayed in office. Brexit's delay is the cause. Although voted almost three years ago, Brexit has not yet taken place – neither on 29 March nor on 12 April. And, as it is postponed to a new deadline of 31 October, the voters in the United Kingdom will vote on 23 May in the European elections. The Member States of the Union are therefore facing an unprecedented situation: the extension of the period before the UK's exit until a date after the European elections. However, everything had been planned to elect a European Parliament without representatives of the United Kingdom. On 26 May, the number of seats for MEPs was to increase from 751 to 705. Of the 73 British seats, 46 were to be blocked pending further enlargements and 27 were to be redistributed with a view to improving demographic representation. During this redistribution, France obtained 5 additional seats, which can only be occupied once the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union is legally effective. This situation was not provided for by law. The text before us is therefore intended to clarify the method of designation and the status of the additional representatives of France. They will be elected in the same way as all candidates of the French delegation, according to the same procedure, to proportional representation to the highest average. The rights and obligations attached to their European mandate will not be enforceable against them until they have actually entered into office. On the other hand, they may be required, in their capacity as the following list, to sit in the European Parliament to fill a vacancy for any reason before the possible departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union. The departure of the Members of the United Kingdom offered the opportunity to establish transnational lists of 27 names, as proposed by the President of the Republic. This would have led to a first step towards the formation of a European demos and a better citizen awareness, the awareness of belonging to the same people, to the same country – Europe, in the spirit of Victor Hugo, visionary of the European construction, who considered that the States making up Europe must blend into a higher unity and fraternity. This idea of a genuine European agora through transnational lists will therefore have to make its way. We can, however, welcome France's increase from seventy-four to seventy-nine representatives: these five additional seats will strengthen our position and influence within the European institutions. That's one more reason to vote. Because the European elections will be decisive for our continent: in a few days, it is the future of our children and grandchildren that will be played. In the context of aggressive globalisation and the alarming consequences of climate change, the renaissance of a strong, united, free, just and supportive Europe has never been more urgent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u142	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u144	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] All the communes of France have prepared their thirty-four panels; the official campaign was launched today. To avoid any legal pitfalls, we will vote on the bill, so that everything is ready so that the French can vote massively and calmly on 26 May.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u145	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u147	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u148	The examination of this draft law on French elected officials in the European Parliament is surprising: elements that may seem to be only technical actually reveal the fundamental difficulty of our French and European institutions in translating a clearly expressed democratic will. You know my fight to suspend arms sales to coalition countries that cause bombs to rain on Yemen's civilian populations, first because these sales are illegal in the light of the international treaties to which we are a party, but also because it is the only way to force everyone to sit down at the negotiating table for a peace process. But that's something else I want to talk about here. On 17 July 2014, in Gaza, Palestine, an 8-year-old girl and two boys aged 9 and 10 were killed, and two other boys aged 9 and 15 were crippled for life, following a missile fire. This is a war crime, which has since been documented by a United Nations expert group. In the middle of the blood pool in which a doll was still bathed, a photographer identified war material signed Eurofarad, a company of the French group Exxelia Technologies. In total, three French-made potentiometers, including one still attached to the missile fins, were found on site on this sinister day. The parents of these children torn from life are now civil parties in a lawsuit against Exxelia for complicity in war crimes. This trial has just started before the Paris High Court. No one here will want to rule on an ongoing judicial case, and that is quite normal. My questions therefore concern the control of the use of European funds. In fact, Exxelia received a European grant of EUR 298983 under a research programme spread between 2014 and 2016. Did Exxelia respond today to a call for tenders to benefit from the new European defence funds? It's not impossible. Is that acceptable? Do you accept it? Is it legal? Who knows? Who controls? With regard to subsidies to the arms industries and the control of arms export permits, more than an absolute democratic vacuum, we are dealing with a democratic denial. This denial leads French arms manufacturers to believe that they have no corporate social responsibility and that the authorization to export arms issued by the Prime Minister releases them from everything. The arms dealers would, in a way, be legally irresponsible as soon as the precious licence to kill was obtained. No control, no sanction. It should be noted that Exxelia had obtained the necessary arms export permits from the Prime Minister. War crime or not, it seems enough for the company Exxelia to expose, decomplexed, its child killer equipment at the arms show in 2018. For the record, the European Parliament voted, by 539 votes in favour and 13 against, on a resolution calling for the suspension of arms sales to Saudi Arabia in the context of the conflict in Yemen. France has not acted on it. At the National Assembly, I asked a year ago for the establishment of a commission of inquiry on the role of France in Yemen. I'm still waiting. Following the appeal filed by an NGO in May 2018 before the Paris Administrative Court, the Secretary-General for Defence and National Security, Claire Landais, stated, on behalf of the Prime Minister, that the national courts are not competent to enforce the positions taken in the field of the European Union's common security and defence policy. That is exactly the opposite response I received from the European External Action Service when I filed a complaint against the Prime Minister for violating the European Union's common position on arms exports. It seems complicated, but in fact it is very simple: there is no one on board to control, neither at European level, nor in France, nor in national parliaments, nor in the European Parliament, nor in justice. What does France do when its violations of international law are spread out in the open, as was the case recently after the disclosure of a note from its own military intelligence services? It attacks the investigative journalists of Disclose and Radio France, who only made public what they had found. [[Alain David and Paul Molac applaud]] Faced with the European democratic peril, rather than focusing on the tree that hides the forest and this diplomacy of connivance with the worst, it would be time to finally ring the democratic awakening.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u149	My dear colleague, your speech did not have much to do with the text we are considering.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u150	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u151	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u152	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u153	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u154	"In exceptional circumstances, exceptional measures. This expression applies very well to the text before us today, which is the result of the procrastination of the United Kingdom despite the clear vote of the British people. While we can only welcome the good representation of France in the European Parliament, the five additional seats offered by Brexit put us in a paradoxical situation, that of electing representatives who will only sit in a few months' time, while the British voters find themselves in an equally aberrant situation, that of electing representatives who will not sit. This could give a smile if it was not the image of the European Union, already largely tainted by the overproduction of standards, which was at stake. This situation is all the more deplorable since the turnout in the election of Members of Parliament is much lower than in the national elections, and it is not the law of 25 June – desired and carried by Mrs Loiseau, yesterday Minister for European Affairs and today leader of the list of the Republic on the move – that will reverse this trend, as it helps to keep voters away from their representatives. The single list nationalizes the debate instead of making us talk about Europe, and it is unfortunate that there are so many things to say! In addition, it is under-represented in the territories and increasingly favours Paris and Île-de-France, where party apparatuses operate at full speed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u155	It is also true in Marseilles!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u156	At Les Républicaines, on the other hand, we are committed to presenting a true project led by a diversity of profiles and talents. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Republican Group will vote for this text, but allow me to take a date. Today, you rightly support a single method of election for reasons of clarity and homogeneity. It would be wise to remember this when you introduce your constitutional bill in a few weeks' time. I understand that you are considering two methods of voting for the election of members of our Assembly. Be consistent in a few weeks!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u157	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor to support Amendment No. 2, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u158	I say this in full transparency: this amendment is the result of the exchanges I had last week with the text rapporteur in the Senate, Alain Richard. I will not go back to the substance of the single article, which we discussed extensively in the general discussion, although some interventions were very far from it. In any case, this article is dictated by the European Council. This amendment brings drafting improvements and clarifications that will help to avoid litigation. For greater legibility, we propose first to limit references to other texts and to write directly the number of seats mentioned – five. We also prefer to speak of the United Kingdom's "withdrawal" to determine the date of entry into office of the additional representatives of France, because the "legal effects" of the withdrawal, referred to in the original bill, are likely to be spread over time. Finally, we specify the procedure to be followed in the event that an additional representative finds himself in a situation of incompatibility at the time of his entry into office: if, between the election of 26 May and the time of his taking up office, he was elected parliamentarians or appointed local executive, the common law would be applied, i.e. he would have 30 days to resign from the mandate in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u159	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u160	I broke all suspense when I introduced the bill: I confirm the Government's support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u161	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As Amendment No. 2, which was corrected, with the wording of the single article as a whole, was adopted with the adoption of the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u162	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u163	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u164	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of the draft law on the transformation of the civil service (No. 1802, 1924). The Conference of Presidents decided to apply the scheduled legislative time procedure to this discussion, on the basis of time allocated to the forty-hour groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u165	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u166	Today, we begin our consideration of the Public Service Transformation Bill passed by the Council of Ministers on March 27. Gérald Darmanin, Minister for Action and Public Accounts, and I are happy to defend this text before Parliament, as we are convinced that it is useful and expected. Helpful, because we must give our administration the means to transform itself. Waiting, because many public officials tell us that they are looking forward to the implementation of provisions that will give them more autonomy, more levers of action, and that will guarantee more fairness but also more freedom in choosing their career path. The stakes are high, as we know. The President of the Republic had stressed this during his campaign, and we keep reminding him: the public service is at the heart of our republican pact, it is a major player in our society, and its modernization is an essential condition for the success of the political project of the presidential majority. The public service is now 5.5 million agents, that is to say 5.5 million of our fellow citizens committed to the service of the general interest, who, every day, welcome, accompany, advise the French and meet their expectations, throughout the territory. These officers are police officers, teachers, firefighters, midwives, health personnel, town secretaries, territorial agents who, on a daily basis, support, animate and supervise the public service, both in the ministries and central administrations as well as in each of our territories, in deconcentrated services, in hospitals or in local authorities and their institutions. They have my full gratitude, that of the entire Government and, I believe, of each and every one of us, for their commitment and for the professional investment in the service they provide to users. They are our pride, but also an indispensable link that contributes to the social cohesion of our country. The bill that I am presenting to you today is the result of the commitment made by President Emmanuel Macron to a more effective public action by giving more autonomy and responsibility, and by showing more confidence in those who make public service a daily life: our public officials, whether they are incumbent or contractual. We want to give new freedoms and give more flexibility to administrations to transform them, so that the administrative constraints have now accumulated. We want to do this by preserving the rights of the agents and giving them new ones, first and foremost that of regaining control of their careers. This bill is also part of a context known to all, that of the great debate desired by the President of the Republic. We have all heard, during this period, the accumulated dissatisfaction, sometimes also the anger of some of our fellow citizens, which translates, among other things, into a demand for more proximity coupled with a demand for more solidarity and more social justice. This bill is also intended to meet, at least in part, the expectations expressed during this unprecedented period. Indeed, some have expressed their sense of abandonment and their attachment to a community-based public service. We share this commitment and believe that carrying out the necessary transformations in our country does not upset it, on the contrary. The State must adapt to be accessible to all citizens without distinction. This must be reflected in the presence of more officials on the ground, as close as possible to our fellow citizens, in order to provide them with solutions. This is the meaning of the new stage of deconcentration that we want to take, it is also our desire to rethink the location of our services by reinvesting rural and peri-urban territories. Because this bill concerns the entire public service, it also deals with the senior public service. We can all begin by recognizing the merits of senior officials, these servants of the general interest, while stressing the weight of their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u167	When it starts like this...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u168	We must also reaffirm our commitment to the meritocratic model of recruitment, training and career development. It is more necessary than ever to attract the best, without the inequalities of birth excluding them and fighting against the economic and social determinisms that remain so dominant. We must also respond to the desire of our fellow citizens for greater transparency in the high public service and the most important public responsibilities...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u169	You've gone wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u170	...exemplarity and ethics. We do it and we will do it, but with a demand: not to give in to the ease of populism or to the stigmatization of those who serve and whose competence and commitment are reasons for pride as well as tools of influence in our country. For all these reasons, it is up to us to strengthen and even renew the bond of trust between our citizens and our administrations. This link must be built by ensuring, first and foremost, a quality public service, a sine qua non for effective public action. It is also for this reason that we must provide public officials with a modernised and adapted framework for action, because, as we must recall and repeat, the public service is primarily the public officials as a whole, agents who, in nine out of ten cases, are in direct contact with our citizens and who, in a way, make our republican principles and the values of a public service live on a daily basis that we want to be fair, effective and egalitarian. With this in mind, the bill is undergoing a profound modernization of human resources management in the public service, and it is bringing about a real transformation of the public service. We do so with determination, as it is, in our view, an essential work to strengthen and strengthen the public service and public action in our country. We also do so with caution, because we are committed to the status, its values and its fundamental principles – I will have the opportunity to return to it. Precaution must also be taken, because we know that, behind the provisions that we will have to examine, it is the daily lives of millions of public officials that we will change. The general status of the civil service, profoundly modified and renovated in 1983 and 1984 for both sides of the state and territory, and in 1986 for the hospital side, has undergone many changes, often in small touch, with the exception of the 2009 mobility laws, 2012 on the improvement of employment conditions and access to tenure, and 2016 specifically relating to the ethics and rights and duties of public officials. This statute brings together and brings together all public officials and public administrations, communities and institutions around a common foundation of rights and obligations, freely agreed upon, to support our public service. We are therefore fully aware, with Gérald Darmanin, of the importance of the changes we propose. We know how important it is, but we also know how necessary and urgent it is. This bill responds to this need. It is a concrete and operational tool to carry out all the transformations of public policies, in accordance with the objectives set by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister at the Interministerial Committee on Public Transformation of 1 February 2018. The main challenge is to provide agents with new rights, new opportunities for career development, and to give public, elected or supervising employers greater autonomy in the recruitment and management of their teams. Our conviction is that public officials and employers, whether elected or appointed, must be fully involved in the transformations, not their victims. The challenge of this text is therefore to restore power, capacity and even the desire to act to those who act on the ground every day, to simply trust them, and to give them the keys to succeeding in these transformations. There are strong expectations on the ground, sometimes even impatience on the part of agents, supervisors, but also of our fellow citizens. These expectations are reflected in the requirements for openness, decompartmentalisation and even convergence of the civil service and the private sector; of requirements...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u171	That's an increase in the point of point of point of point of point of point of point of point of
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u172	... simplification and flexibility, but also greater responsiveness and efficiency of the public service, particularly in the most isolated or fragile territories. All too often, the civil service is now the victim of its rigidities, its heavy workloads, and the administrative partitions that it has sometimes built itself. In some cases, it has become a maze in which it is difficult to locate, for both users and agents. It also suffers from a loss of attractiveness which is measured by the decrease in the number of candidates for certain competitions and the recruitment difficulties highlighted by many public employers. During each of my visits to the services, in very different territories, I had the pleasure of interacting with public officials on all three sides of the public service. I have heard the feeling of a form of professional house arrest, and a sense of impotence in the face of decisions that are beyond their control. I heard the heads of departments ask that they be simply and truly trusted to manage their services, build their teams and mobilize them around cross-cutting projects. I have heard everywhere this same desire to serve the general interest and to have the means to do so as close as possible to the ground. It is to these expectations that we must provide answers, ensuring that change is perceptible as quickly as possible. This is true of the agents, who have long been asked for their efforts, and whose efforts we have collectively demanded that they adapt both to budgetary constraints and to technological or territorial changes and to the expectations of the users, without having always been given the means and the levers to live and accompany these changes. This is also true of those leaders, elected officials and heads of service, who are repeatedly asked to carry out ambitious structural reforms, often without their involvement in their design and often without having given them the keys to these reforms or the autonomy they expect and hope to decline them in the territories where they serve and in the services they lead. It is this autonomy that we will give them with this bill. Finally, it is true for the users, and more broadly for our fellow citizens, who demand that the public service should respond more and more to their needs and expectations, and that it should be responsive and present everywhere in all territories. With this in mind, bearing in mind this desire for reform led by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister's objective of building a new social contract with public officials, I have, for almost fifteen months, conducted intensive consultations with the nine trade union organisations representing the public service and all territorial and hospital employers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u173	With what a result!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u174	Four projects were thus opened for consultation. The first concerns social dialogue, with the intention of simplifying it and concentrating it on the essential, while guaranteeing the individual and collective rights of agents. The second concerns the extension of the conditions for recruitment under contract, in order to allow our administrations to join more easily the skills they need, and for the time needed. The third project was dedicated to new management levers and equity between the public and private sectors, but also between the three sides of the public service. Finally, the fourth project helped to work on the issues of mobility, access to training and support for restructuring. A fifth project took the form of a negotiation which concluded on 30 November 2018 with the signing of a memorandum of understanding on the occupational equality of women and men in the public service. This protocol was signed by seven of the nine representative trade union organisations and all representatives of public employers. At the end of a first phase of consultation, which ended with the professional elections of 6 December, the text was submitted in the spring to the representative bodies: the Joint Council of the Civil Service and each of the higher councils of the three public offices. It was also submitted to the National Standards Assessment Council, which gave a favourable opinion. This last, more formal phase of consultation has made it possible to enrich the text by incorporating numerous proposals from trade union organisations, in any case those which have played the game and tabled amendments, and proposals from employers. This includes the recognition of the role of the trade union adviser, the implementation of enhanced access to training for the least well-trained or in jobs with a risk of occupational wear and tear, and the strengthening of certain provisions on equality between women and men. It is also in this phase of consultation that, on the proposal of territorial employers and some union representatives, we have, for example, extended to the territorial civil service the conventional break and the recruitment of contract workers in permanent category B jobs. I would like to stress, as far as the territorial civil service is concerned, that this constructive dialogue has been made possible thanks to the cooperation of all the presidents of national associations of elected representatives, whom I would like to thank, as part of the mission to modernise the territorial civil service, entrusted by the Prime Minister at the second national conference of territories held in Cahors on 14 December 2017. This dialogue was also greatly facilitated by the permanent and constructive involvement of Mr Philippe Laurent, President of the Superior Council of the Territorial Civil Service. I thank him in particular. Thus, all positions could be heard and listened to. Our method of work has always been the same: co-construction and ongoing dialogue with stakeholders. This has obviously not exhausted all disagreements, or even all matters relating to the public service, but it allows me to present a balanced and enriched text to you today. At this point in my speech, I would like to dwell for a moment on a major point in our debate: the bill is by no means a challenge to the statute. This reform will in no way be a "social decline" or a "civil service breakdown", as I have sometimes heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u175	And you'll hear it again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u176	The Government remains strongly committed to the general status of the civil service, which was established by the Law of 13 July 1983 on the Rights and Obligations of Civil Servants. Locally elected as a former local employer, I know how big the stakes are, and I know the real need to protect the achievements of public officials and the rights attached to their functions, as provided for by the statute for the holders, but also for the contractors as a result of section 32 of the 1983 Act. As a local elected official, I also know how important the concrete needs of adapting and modernizing the public service management framework are. There is a need to renovate this legal framework that makes our daily life. Thus, we have ensured that the fundamental provisions of the general statute are scrupulously respected. I am thinking, for example, of the general principle of permanent employment by incumbents, referred to in Article 3 of the 1983 Act, or of the right of employees, through their representatives, to participate in decisions affecting them. In its opinion, the Council of State stressed compliance with these fundamental principles and provisions. However, attachment to the statute also implies the need to modernize and renovate it to allow it to remain this general, protective and flexible framework for the action of public officials. As I said, the statute will not be in its first amendment: the laws of 1983, 1984 and 1986 have already undergone dozens of amendments, sometimes substantial. This leads us to consider the codification of civil service legislation in order to improve its readability and intelligibility, and to ensure its proper coordination. With this bill, we are taking a new step in modernizing and adapting our status to society and its expectations. Let me now briefly recall the main provisions of a bill structured around five pillars. The first pillar aims to promote a more strategic, effective and responsive social dialogue, while respecting the guarantees and rights of public officials. In concrete terms, we want to give new impetus to the social dialogue in the public service and to simplify the organisation of the various forums for dialogue – there are more than 22000 of them today – for a greater deconcentration of decisions and a refocusing of these bodies on the most qualitative issues for agents. These new provisions will make it possible to address, within the same body – the Social Committee for Administration, Territorial or Establishment – the issues of organisation and operation of services, human resources policy and working conditions. We maintain the Joint Administrative Committees for the consideration of individual situations, refocusing them on the most sensitive issues, including disciplinary issues, but not only. They will no longer examine acts of mobility and promotion of public officials. As for the new bodies for social dialogue, they will have to define the general rules on mobility, promotion and promotion of career paths, taking into account the interests of the services. Specific remedies will be put in place for officials who consider themselves to be injured or even discriminated against by a decision rendered. This simplification will save time and efficiency in the management of human resources, to which we are particularly committed. We also hope that majority agreements can be concluded at local level, regardless of whether or not there is an agreement at national level. It is an important lever to empower all those involved in the social dialogue at local level, a lever that also really improves the working conditions of all staff in the services. The second pillar of the bill aims to develop managerial levers for more effective public action, with the first objective – perhaps one of the most emblematic measures of this text – the increased openness of the use of contracts. As a reminder, of the 5.5 million public servants, almost 20% are already recruited on a contractual basis. These men and women serve public action, respond to our fellow citizens and are just as invested as other agents; They must be better recognized and protected. This increase in the use of contracts will ensure a greater diversity of staff profiles, facilitate recruitment, particularly in occupations for which public service schools do not offer training, and respond to public employers who, on a recurring basis, indicated that we do not find the skills expected for certain positions in the staff pool.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u177	Create training!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u178	This will also make it possible to recruit high-level executives from the private sector, with scarce skills, who may want to engage in public service for a limited time, not at a career level. In the same vein, this bill for the transformation of the civil service innovates by creating, on all three sides of the civil service, a project contract in order to mobilize external expertise for the conduct or implementation of a specific project. I repeat, the objective of our reform is truly twofold: to give more flexibility to employers, but also to give new opportunities to agents, with particular attention to the most precarious agents. With this in mind, we want to broaden the use of contractual and full-time employment for missions that require non-full-time service – for example, extra-curricular care – so as to eliminate the abuse of vacation. The work in the Committee on Laws has made it possible to go further in the fight against precariousness, and I welcome it. The Government has heard the willingness of the working Republic and MODEM groups to introduce, as is the case in the private sector, a precarious premium for agents who have signed a fixed-term contract, because the convergence that we call for of our wishes must also be for the benefit of public officials. I have therefore tabled and will defend before you an amendment creating such a premium for contracts of up to one year's duration. The Government thus responds, I believe, to a request made in committee. The second purpose of this managerial pillar is to strengthen the recognition of the professional commitment and performance of agents. This will first be achieved through the generalisation of individual assessment instead of rating, through professional maintenance, but also through greater consistency in determining the remuneration of all public officials, regardless of their situation – contract or holder – or their public employer. I turn to the third pillar of this bill: strengthening the transparency and fairness of the management framework for public officials. More specifically, the aim is to strengthen the fairness and effectiveness of ethical control, which is the corollary of encouraging public-private mobility. Here too, I would like to highlight the work done in committee and the follow-up that will be given to it at the sitting to thoroughly renovate the tools for monitoring ethics, stressing the essential contribution of Fabien Matras, which is the result of his parliamentary mission with Mr Olivier Marleix. Fairness also means harmonizing working time in the public service with that in the private sector: agreements derogating from the 1607-hour statutory working time in the territorial public service will be abolished by 2022, and we will present a decree to harmonize special leave of absence regimes. I know that we will have to debate in the hours that come from the same subject for the state civil service. The fourth pillar aims at greater mobility between civil servants but also between the public and private sectors to allow for greater decompartment while giving maximum security, rights and accompaniment to the officials concerned. Thus, in order to promote mobility between the slopes, we will, as in the private sector, guarantee the portability of the rights acquired under the personal training account in the event of mobility. Similarly, a contractual agent holding a CDI in one of the slopes will now be able to benefit from the possibility – I insist that this will remain a possibility in his hand – of a portability of his CDI in the event of a change of employer, even in another side. In addition, a comprehensive support scheme in the event of service restructuring, with personalized support, will be put in place for the three sides of the civil service, including, in particular, a transitional vocational leave to enable an employee to train for a period of one year while retaining his entire salary and thus to be able to consider his conversion calmly. Also with this objective of mobility and gateways, a new conventional break-up mechanism, close to what already exists in the private sector, is created by the bill. The aim is to facilitate the second or third part of a career in the private sector by giving public officials the same guarantees as employees, i.e. the benefit of a break-up benefit and unemployment insurance. Here too, the work in committee, in particular the rapporteur's amendments, will have made it possible to provide clarifications and framework provisions useful to this new tool. All these tools will be useful. They are expected by many agents who wish to write a new page of their professional career. Of course, there is no question of forcing officers to leave the public service. The aim is to provide new answers and to create new tools to respond to the situations most commonly encountered by public employers. The State will also ensure that staff whose post is being reassigned are eligible for reclassification to the territory in which they live, as part of a new local assignment priority. Finally, as far as mobility is concerned, I know very well that these issues are of particular importance for ultramarine public officials, both in terms of taking into account the material and moral focus as provided for by the law Real equality overseas 2017 and around the modalities of recruitment in these territories. Most of these issues fall within the scope of regulation, but I would like to confirm to the national representative our willingness to work with the Minister for Overseas Affairs and in consultation with the ultramarine elected representatives. In the short term, we need to continue the work of evaluating the inclusion of ICMMM – the centre of moral and material interests – in the movement of mutations, and I confirm the Government's willingness to complete this evaluation quickly. We must also support public employers, first and foremost ministries, in deconcentrating their recruitment. If, on this point, the stakes obviously go beyond the ultramarine territories alone, I know that the implementation of national competitions with local allocation, as proposed by a majority amendment, will allow new answers in this area when the deconcentrated services are not in a position to organise the competitions themselves. The fifth pillar of the bill aims to strengthen professional equality, starting with that between women and men in the civil service. To this end, it transposes the progress of the majority agreement of 30 November 2018 on professional equality between women and men. In practical terms, the aim is to establish action plans to deal in particular with the problems of pay gaps, to strengthen the system of balanced appointments on management posts, to stop applying sick leave to agents in situations of pregnancy and, as for State officials, to maintain during maternity leave, for adoption, for paternity or for the reception of the child the premiums and allowances paid by the local authorities. The aim is also to promote professional equality for workers with disabilities. Thus, the bill imposes an obligation on public employers to commit themselves to taking measures to promote the career paths of these agents by protecting them from discrimination. This requires in particular the recognition of new handicaps which may benefit from tests during competitions, and also by a procedure for promotion derogating from the common law which broadens the scope of the handicaps taken into account, by deleting the reference to the physical handicap alone in order to be able to benefit from tests in the same competitions. These provisions are in addition to the renovation of the obligation to employ disabled workers, implemented by the law for the freedom to choose his professional future of 5 December 2018, presented by my colleague Muriel Pénicaud. The Act has made it possible to simplify the recruitment of persons with disabilities, particularly in low-staffed structures, and to strengthen the capacity of the Fund for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities in the Public Service. In conclusion, I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, how confident the Government is that it is in the interest of public officials, and more generally of all our fellow citizens, that it is in the interest of this bill to transform the public service. The aim is to help strengthen public services in the territories and improve the working conditions of public officials through concrete and rapidly operational progress. I would like to thank all those who have been involved in our debates, namely all the members of the Law Committee around you, Madam Chair, and who have made it possible to enrich this text by the quality of their work and contributions, at our meetings on 2 and 3 May; thank the draftsman for the opinion of the delegation to local authorities, Éric Poulliat, and Laurence Gayte, rapporteur for the delegation to women's rights – of which I welcome the president here – and through them all their members; I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Émilie Chalas, and the valuable assistance of the parliamentarians of the majority, in particular Guillaume Gouffier-Cha and Laurence Vichnievsky. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] If I do not allow myself, ladies and gentlemen, to thank you all in advance, I know that the debate that we are opening at this moment will also be a new step in enriching and improving this text. I am convinced that it brings the flexibility expected and the necessary changes to our administrations and public officials. I am convinced that we are doing so by protecting their rights and by giving them new professional opportunities. I am confident that we will thus mark a new stage, a profound change in the way in which we implement public action in all the territories of our country, placing public officials at the centre of our concerns and objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u179	Mrs Emilie Chalas, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u180	The Public Service Transformation Bill for which we are gathered today is the result of a method and the expression of a will. The result of a method, because it is the result of a long round of consultations that you have been conducting for more than a year, Mr. Secretary of State, with all the trade unions and employers' representatives on all three sides of the public service. As rapporteur, I myself have organized more than 40 hearings and made numerous trips to our territories, where I went to meet the officials of the three public offices, who work every day in the service of the general interest. This work is combined with the 20 or so hearings we have held in the Public Service Working Group, in which members of the running Republic and MODEM groups are involved, which I would like to thank particularly for their strong involvement. It is also a follow-up to my 2017 and 2018 reports for advice, as part of the finance bills. Undoubtedly, the expectations of public officials are numerous, as are those of all our fellow citizens. Their fears and doubts are also so, in a context where public servants are often the target of unfair criticism and stigmatization that deeply ignores the sense of action and professionalism that characterize them. I can personally testify to this, having held managerial positions for more than ten years in a commune of 8000 inhabitants. I know the dedication and value of the 5.5 million women and men who work daily in the service of our compatriots. The public service is what allows the nation to stand up. Here I would like to remind you, at a time when it is a good time to mount the French against each other – private employees against public officials, civil servants against contract workers – and to proceed by amalgamation, cartoons and counter-truths.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u181	It's the hospital that doesn't care about the Salpêtrière!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u182	In the course of my work, I have heard the hopes but also the fears raised by this text. Our collective duty is to respond to this in a parliamentary debate that I hope will meet the challenges facing our public service today. Because the issues surrounding this reform are multiple. And that is why the bill is an expression of a very clear will: to transform the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u183	Destroy, break...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u184	It is not a question of denying its foundations...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u185	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u186	... resulting from the statutory laws of 1946 and 1983, but to implement the means necessary for its modernization. Beyond the only principle of mutability – which in any case corresponds to one of the cardinal principles of public service – a reform requirement remained. Our ambition is to make our public service more open and effective. To work for the general interest means to strengthen the rights and guarantees enjoyed by employees, but also to enable all public employers, on all three sides, to have the means of action adapted to their needs, knowing that they are striving to best meet the expectations and demands of our citizens. These means of action are realized through five complementary axes of renovation. Title I reform the consultative bodies within the three public offices. The aim is to reform community bodies by merging technical committees and health, safety and working conditions committees within a single body set up by the future social committees. They will become the real fora of a new administrative democracy where representatives of the administration and trade union organisations will find themselves by devoting a cross-cutting and inclusive approach to all issues related to human resources management. At the same time, the Joint Administrative Committees are also undergoing a profound reorganization, in connection with the establishment of the management guidelines and with a view to simplifying and improving the quality of the social dialogue. Title II aims to develop a plurality of managerial levers that public employers will be able to seize. The extension of contractual recruitment faculties, including for managerial positions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u187	Especially for management jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u188	... is part of a legitimate opening dynamic: the diversity of profiles and experiences should not be seen as a threat, but as a chance. However, this movement must be accompanied by the establishment of several important guarantees of transparency and fairness, in accordance with the principle of equal access to public employment protected by article 6 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 1789. Title III aims to simplify the framework for the management of public officials. To this end, it encourages the merger of voluntary departmental management centres, and makes a necessary move to deconcentrate a number of acts of management of the hospital public service. At the same time, it reinforces the ethical obligations of the public service. This is a major issue on which we have worked a great deal. I would like to stress the remarkable work of our colleagues Fabien Matras and Olivier Marleix on this subject. I would also like to thank the six groups that have joined in this process: The Republic on the move, the MODEM, of course, the Republicans, the Socialists, the IDU and Libertés et territoires. Title IV allows for better and wider professional opportunities for public officials by promoting their mobility within the three sides. It introduces, on an experimental basis, the possibility of a treaty break that currently exists only in the private sector. Finally, Title V reinforces professional equality by transposing several measures of the agreement on professional equality between women and men in the civil service of 30 November 2018, which was signed by seven of the nine representative trade union organisations as well as by all representatives of public employers. These measures are directly part of the announcement by the President of the Republic concerning equality between women and men, which was enshrined as the great cause of the quinquennium and as a global cause by the G7 on 10 May. In my personal capacity, and I think most of my colleagues agree with me, I welcome, of course, the exemption for pregnant women from the waiting day provided for in Article 32. This is a concrete step forward which I have been calling for for almost two years in each of my budgetary opinions. I therefore welcome the fact that this text is at last an opportunity to make it a reality. I would add that Title V also includes a chapter on the promotion of the careers of persons with disabilities in the public service. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, the provisions of this bill for the transformation of the public service have a threefold ambition: to be useful both to agents in the performance of their duties, to employers in their management and supervision responsibilities, and to citizens in their relations with the public service. It is in the light of these decisive issues that an important work of deepening has been carried out by the Law Commission. At the end of almost 18 hours of debate, of which I would like to commend the quality, 179 amendments were adopted in order to clarify, clarify, but also to improve and strengthen all the provisions of this text. These changes or additions have, for some of them, been the result of a trans-party approach and of the constructive work done, within the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, by our colleague Eric Poulliat, and within the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities between men and women, by our colleague Laurence Gayte. There were many contributions from the commission. I am thinking, in particular, of the enlargement of the scope of action of the future social committees, as provided for in Article 3, which will be responsible for occupational equality, the fight against discrimination and the regulation of digital tools. Together with my colleague Guillaume Gouffier-Cha, I have tabled several amendments – which have been adopted – to Articles 6 and 7, in order to guarantee the publicity of vacancies and job creations which may be filled by contract staff, in accordance with the need for transparency, and to provide for the definition by decree of the conditions of remuneration of contract staff in managerial posts. The Commission has also expanded the scope of the management guidelines, which will become real multi-year human resources steering tools that will set out the management strategy for administrations, on which the social committees will decide for their opinion. At the same time, we have launched a movement to strengthen the culture of transparency and ethics in the public service, which we will continue this week when we review Title III. I'll come back. We have also adopted several amendments to encourage the pooling of management centres at regional level, in order to strengthen their level of expertise. Finally, the system of contractual breaches has been better regulated, as have the guarantees offered to officials seconded ex officio, with a constant concern for fairness and protection. These contributions, of which I have mentioned only a part, are intended to be deepened in public session. I will propose to you, together with the Republic on the move, a number of complementary measures aimed at improving the general economy of the bill. As I committed myself to this during the examination in committee, I will propose that a single social report be set up in all the administrations. In addition to an obvious issue of readability and simplified access to the set of social data which obviously correspond to the major human resources themes, it is a matter of creating a genuine strategic steering tool that will become one of the key elements of the social dialogue of tomorrow. In addition, I have tabled, in connection with the Government and the majority, an amendment to create a precariousness compensation scheme for contracts of up to one year's duration, up to 10 per cent, excluding seasonal contracts and project contracts. In this regard, I particularly thank the Secretary of State for his commitment to the Law Commission. It is an indispensable social justice measure which, if it represents an obvious budgetary effort, will help to reduce unjustified differences in treatment with the private sector, even though the professional situations faced by workers, whether in the public or private sector, are identical in this respect. On the issue of ethics, we have taken a major step forward in committee by opting for the merger of the High Authority for the transparency of public life, which is competent for governmental functions, elected officials and certain posts of senior officials, and the Commission on the Ethics of the Civil Service, which is competent for all other officials. There was no justification for the coexistence of two entities with such narrowly intertwined fields of competence. We therefore entrust the competence of the Ethics Commission to HATVP, which already enjoys the status of independent administrative authority, recognized expertise in ethics and substantial resources. The question that remains to be decided is the composition of his college. In committee, we had adopted a solution for two colleges, one for elected officials, one for officials, but it was not satisfactory in terms of clarity, readability and efficiency. At the end of a working meeting with almost all of the groups in our assembly, we propose to complete the current composition of the HATVP College with four additional qualified individuals appointed by the Assembly and the Senate. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on this proposal between us, since seven identical amendments from six groups have been tabled. The Government has a significantly different position. He will present a clarification sub-amendment that we will be debating. It seems to me to be a balanced outcome of our exchanges. With regard to the publicity of the High Authority's opinions, the dissemination of its doctrine and the support of the deontologists in their missions, we have moved forward in committee and will, I hope, continue this process together in open session. We have also adopted in committee several provisions on the transparency of remuneration – at the initiative of our colleague chair of the Law Committee, Yaël Braun-Pivet – and on the supervision of remuneration within the independent administrative authorities. We will propose, by various amendments, to complete and clarify these various arrangements. As you will have understood, the work that we have done and that we will continue in public session is aimed at achieving the threefold objective of this reform: to liberate, protect and unite in the service of the general interest. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is the state of mind in which I am addressing this debate, which I hope will be as interesting and constructive as it was in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u189	The floor was drawn by Mr. Éric Poulliat, on behalf of the delegation to local and regional authorities and decentralization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u190	The public service is of key importance to the life of our territories. Firstly, because the local authorities themselves are local employers and the quality of their daily work is, in particular, the result of the commitment and work of the territorial civil servants. Secondly, because the great national debate has collectively reminded us of the extent to which the presence and continuity of public services in all territories is an issue of social justice, of combating exclusion, of mobility, of security, of education, of culture or of cohesion. In short, it is one of the pillars of our Republic. The President of the Republic recently recalled that decentralization is not yet fully completed or fully mature in our country. There is a need to continue to clarify competencies. Above all, each actor must take full responsibility: the transfer of skills must also be a transfer of total and complete responsibilities. I know how deeply the public officials of local and regional authorities, as well as the French, are committed to the values of public service and to the tasks they perform every day with our fellow citizens. The public service is one of the prides of our country and its status deserves to be fully preserved. The French, however, are demanding vis-à-vis it, and do not hesitate to criticize it when it does not respond sufficiently to their needs or adapt quickly enough, in a rapidly changing world. It is precisely for these reasons that I consider it desirable to introduce new tools for the status of the territorial civil service, in order to better respond to the demands of both territorial agents and employers, which I would like to welcome, as well as trade union and professional organisations, for their participation in the debate. These demands are first of all collective: to obtain a better recognition of their work with citizens, to strengthen the role of public managers and to introduce more diversity in recruitment and career paths, as well as more flexibility and innovation capacity in day-to-day operations. They are also individual: occupational health needs to be better taken into account, and more opportunities need to be offered in terms of career progression, training and mobility. I will therefore introduce several amendments under the delegation to local authorities and decentralization. They reflect the desire to pay as much attention to the demands of employers as to those of territorial public officials on the issues that I believe are key to the territorial public service. I am thinking of the social dialogue, with the creation of territorial social committees and management guidelines, the recruitment of contract workers, particularly over time, and the creation of the project contract. I am also thinking of occupational health, which is a key issue for the next few years, with specialized training in health and working conditions, as well as intra-versant and inter-versal mobility in the civil service, particularly from the territorial civil service to the state civil service. Finally, I am thinking of the issue of ethics. This bill, improved by all the proposals that we can make collectively, will, I believe, strike a balance between preserving status and developments in order to improve the functioning of our public services on a daily basis and, ultimately, to better meet the expectations of our fellow citizens that the role of public services in our territories should be strengthened and modernized. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] An effective, flexible territorial civil service that offers real opportunities, and free and accountable local and regional authorities for their human resources and public service activities, is what our territories need.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u191	Mrs Laurence Gayte, on behalf of the Delegation for Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities for Men and Women, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u192	By making it a major cause of the quinquennium, the President of the Republic has made equality between women and men a cross-cutting issue in all public policies. After focusing on the private sector with the law of 5 September 2018 on the freedom to choose one's professional future, which for the first time introduced a real obligation of result, the Government proposes, with the bill to transform the public service, to make progress in the public sector. The agreement of 30 November is already a major step on this path, as it goes further than the agreement of 2013 and reflects a strong collective will to move from principled equality to real equality. His delegation could only welcome the fact that the legislative changes to that agreement were taking place as quickly as possible, thus ensuring the rapid implementation of those arrangements. This bill includes an entire chapter dedicated to professional equality and the fight against discrimination. While the work of the delegation to women's rights has focused on these articles, we will also ensure that the issues of professional equality are taken into account in the other provisions of the text. In the area of occupational equality, the draft law is structured around three themes: combating violence, setting up action plans for occupational equality and improving the link between private and professional life. Although many statistics exist on different sides of the civil service, the data do not always measure the differences between women and men, nor even identify the causes. With the comparative situation reports which will be drawn up according to common methodologies, thus comparable, we will have a more accurate picture of the situation. This will enable us to determine where and how to act. The action plan will reflect these commitments and will be subject to three follow-up: follow-up, by the consultation bodies, during its preparation and also in its implementation, since professional equality will now be one of the annual themes dealt with by the new social administrative committees; monitoring by the supervisory authorities of the action plan, in particular in the context of the monitoring of legality at local level; political control, in which our assembly will have its full place. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for having agreed to come regularly to the delegation to take stock of the progress made in the area of professional equality. Ensuring professional equality also requires an effective fight against all forms of violence in the workplace and against gender-based behaviour, with women remaining largely the victims of such unacceptable behaviour. The generalization of the reporting system is a major step forward. It is a primary responsibility of every employer but also a collective responsibility: it is up to us to make it clear that we do not accept such abuses, that their perpetrators must be punished and that we will always stand on the side of the victims. Finally, I note that the bill draws conclusions from the fact that women's careers are still too often penalized by periods of maternity or parental leave, particularly in terms of promotion. It corrects this difference in treatment, which is no longer acceptable. In addition, we have made progress on women's access to positions of responsibility. However, I believe, Mr Secretary of State, that much remains to be done and that more needs to be done. There is, of course, a need to open up the highest positions to women more widely, but also to act at the grass-roots level and to facilitate the development of their entire careers. More generally, we also need to ensure a better connection between private and professional life. This effort will benefit not only women but also all agents and especially all structures. The statutory and regulatory changes we are debating must now be accompanied by changes in human resources management and management. The new tools must be appropriated by each public structure: it is a matter of having operational instruments, not a legal cathedral. This equality between women and men must be ensured as closely as possible to the ground, and in the most concrete way. In this regard, I would like to highlight the quality of our interaction with the Government and its services. During the discussion in committee, several of our proposals were adopted, but beyond that, we noted above all the momentum driven by the Secretary of State to change habits and practices. I am thinking in particular of the generalisation of the reference points in the fight against violence or the monitoring of the use of penalties paid by structures which do not comply with the rules on professional equality. There are still some points that we need to clarify or on which we can make further progress; We shall return to that when we consider the amendments. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These positive developments must also be part of a broader approach: professional equality is certainly at the heart of the transformation of the public service, but, let us not forget, it is more generally at the heart of the transformation and modernization of public action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u193	Ms Marie-Pierre Rixain, Chair of the Delegation for Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities for Men and Women, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u194	Everywhere, the concept of public service refers irresistibly to the state apparatus, to the women and men who actually implement the political decisions that we make. In France, the principle of a civil service subject to equality and impartiality reflects the idea of our republican order, where the rule of law prevails. With the establishment of a public service, it is a question of intervening on the social world in an equitable way because objective and reproducible, according to regular protocols. That is why the ideas of recruitment competitions, equal access to public employment and equal treatment of users make sense. Yet, beyond these principles of the administrative body, there are many inequalities within the public service. Systemic inequalities between women and men, which have been a reality for decades, have their consequences in our society as a whole, including in the professional world, and unfortunately the public sector is not spared. Stereotypes and ordinary sexism, harassment, systems of eviction of women from positions of responsibility, as many realities as women can experience on a daily basis in the public service, with different statutes, culture and obligations than those expected in the company. That is why the delegation for women's rights wanted to take up this bill. I thank Mrs Laurence Gayte for her fruitful work, which allowed the adoption of several amendments in the Committee on Laws. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that equality between women and men, especially professional equality, must be achieved collectively and effectively in all sectors of activity. In the private sector, the law on the freedom to choose one's professional future has made it possible, no longer an obligation of means, but an obligation of results in terms of professional equality. It was therefore essential for the State to be exemplary in the area of equality between women and men and to guarantee fair and equitable conditions of exercise for its agents. This means better combating gender-based and sexual violence, as well as harassment in the workplace, as well as real professional equality in career advancement and appointments to positions of responsibility. I am also thinking of the need for specific arrangements to accompany parenting. "It is precisely because the strength of things always tends to destroy equality, that the strength of legislation must always strive to maintain it," wrote Jean-Jacques Rousseau in Du contrat sociale. On this subject, the bill that you are defending, Secretary of State, appears to have a real ambition, since you are devoting a dedicated title to it. I am proud to belong to a majority who wants to be exemplary in this area, and who can afford it. The text is part of the momentum of the agreement of 30 November 2018 on professional equality between women and men in the civil service, which was already a decisive step. More broadly, I welcome your commitment to advancing the issue of women's rights, fighting violence and defending equality issues throughout the public service. Equality between women and men, in particular their association with public decision-making, are the markers of the quality of State work. The Public Service is the foundation for effective public policy development that directly affects all public servants. That is why the demands of loyalty, neutrality and discretion are more demanded than in the private sector, and that is why public decision-making simply cannot oust women. The State must also carry out introspective work and respect the demands expected of the private sector, as the civil service must also be exemplary in terms of equality between women and men. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] More than a functional product of a mechanized society, the public service is in large part the living fabric of our modernity. Its transformation is therefore commensurate with the political stakes associated with the evolution of the state and democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u195	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-13-O1228.u196	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the Public Service Transformation Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
