ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u1	[[Mrs. and Mr. the deputies and members of the Government rise]] Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Madam and gentlemen of the political groups, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons; Madam and gentlemen of the Prime Ministers, the Presidents of the National Assembly, the history of France is in mourning. Jacques Chirac is no longer. No doubt others that I would evoke better his memory, for having known him, alongside him, for having shared his struggles and his ideas – dear Christian Jacob – or for having opposed him. Yet, as many French have done since September 26, it is with emotion that I pay tribute to him today on behalf of the national representation. Jacques Chirac! His very name slammed like a slogan, while his whole body expressed that republican passion that had animated him since his youth. To all he gave the turn, never shot down, never discouraged, his long legs walking along the terroirs, his great arms stirring the sky and he, whirlling, in perpetual movement, from Matignon to la Corrèze, from the town hall of Paris to the Elysée. This breath, this whirlwind, we understand today that it was the great wind of history. [[Smile]] On 12 April 1967, Jacques Chirac spoke for the first time in the Chamber on the issue of employment. It was a month after his first election as deputy of the Corrèze and, already, he was a member of the Government. As for the Chamber, he had known him for years for following Georges Pompidou, then Prime Minister. Chirac the romantic was learning realism with him, but he was also burning to get rid of it. The electoral district he was aiming at looks amazing. However, if impossible is not French, impregnable was not Chiracian. The Corrèze, the left-wing bastion, was also the only metropolitan department to have said no to the 1958 constitution. Jacques Chirac went there; He spoke to the people, the mayors, the elders, the peasants as well as the notables, the radicals of always as to the communists and the Gaullists, without exclusive. Against François Mitterrand's own brother, he took him from a short head to general surprise. In the 1967 legislature, the Gaullists and their allies retained the majority only at one seat – and Jacques Chirac's conquered one took on a special relief. "We would have needed a Chirac in every constituency," said Georges Pompidou, who brought him into the government. Secretary of State for Labour: this was still only a first step. But there was May 68 and rarely the task of a Secretary of State for Labour was so delicate and decisive that in these exceptional circumstances he could give his measure. The famous Grenelle accords owe much to Jacques Chirac, bold enough to meet in secret the union leaders, the communists, the strikers, and to overcome the difficulties. From then on, it became clear that a negotiator of this kind, with his bagout, his cap and his strength of conviction, would go far. In 1971, as minister of relations with Parliament, he led the beating drum majority. Yet, at this key post, he missed something: the Corrèze, contact with the French, the apostrophes on the village squares, the rascal dishes and the taps in the back. In 1972, he was Minister of Agriculture, and he found this France from the depths that he understood, that he loved, that he felt lived in him. Born in Paris, Jacques Chirac has never forgotten his family roots. The enarch remembered his stay in Corrèze, these modest peasants who had become his friends; the chosen one kept in the heart the message of his two grandfathers, lay teachers, who had faith in the Republic. Throughout his life, Jacques Chirac thus summarized the great currents that crossed France: a lived, carnal synthesis, which was also reflected in his frankness and often unpredictable humour. In a France plagued by ideological quarrels, he sought the path of reasonable conciliation. "And the true foundation of internal peace, in a democratic society, is the responsible practice of freedom and the shared sense of justice," he launched at the National Assembly's rostrum on June 5, 1974, in his statement of general policy. This is Prime Minister, and already the fights that will be his are emerging. He then announced "five essential actions: the protection of nature, the humanisation of urban life, the improvement of working conditions, the planning of leisure activities, the reduction of administrative formalism". All these just causes, worthy of mobilizing good wills, wherever they come from. It is also in his Government that, for the first time, the status of women has its Secretary of State, Françoise Giroud. And when the Minister of Health, Simone Veil, finds herself in difficulty on the voluntary termination of pregnancy, Jacques Chirac simply comes to his side, at the bench of ministers, to express his full support for the reform. Another fight is also engaged in favour of persons with disabilities and their families: by social action in his department, by concrete measures at the top of the state, Jacques Chirac devotes himself, sensitive that he is to the misery of the humblest. Later, this same human fibre will give us the law for equal rights and opportunities, participation and citizenship of people with disabilities of 11 February 2005, the Cancer Plan, the mobilization for road safety. For in Jacques Chirac there is a humanism oriented towards concrete: for having himself experienced the cruelty of existence, the intimate sorrows that it reserves to each of us, he wanted to act. This listening and empathy is part of the magic of Chirac, the very one that operates in 1977, when he won the Paris municipal election. And yet, the mayor of Paris continues to be elected in Corrèze, with strong majorities. When the left came to power in 1981, it had a strong stake. Jacques Chirac has no difficulty in establishing himself as the strongest voice of the opposition and, in the Chamber, is a speaker full of mordant. Yet, despite the virulence of controversy at that time, I observe that Jacques Chirac has always remained respectful of the institutions of the Republic. When the big debate on "free school" begins, it is in the name of freedom that it takes sides, keeping itself well from intruding religion into a political conflict. When an extreme right emerges until then groupuscular, it excludes any alliance with it and will remain constant on this position. As early as September 1981, did he not prove his independence of mind by voting, with the left, for the abolition of the death penalty? Once again Prime Minister in 1986, he failed in the 1988 presidential election, but Chirac the indestructible was again there in 1995, ready to assume the responsibilities of the supreme power. He wins and, at the Elysée, imposes this style which the French, today, remember. Jacques Chirac, too, was "a certain idea of France". "A free, prosperous and independent France", as he had always promised to his voters in Corrèze; this "France for All" which enthralled in 1995; "France en grand, France together", to take up its 2002 watchword. But, beyond the slogans, it was Republican and democratic France that he placed above everything, this France that emerged from the Revolution that loves the right to property and equal opportunities, the freedom to undertake and social protection, which is proud of its traditions and welcomes foreigners who have come to take refuge there. It was this France who gathered together to re-elect him by an overwhelming majority on May 5, 2002. We understand why Jacques Chirac, President of the Republic, chose to bring Alexandre Dumas into the Pantheon. After Malraux, the great voice of Gaullism, it was the humanist republican whom he wanted to honor, the dark-skinned man who had made his own history of France. Jacques Chirac had something of these cadets of Gascogne that the author of the Three Musketeers celebrated: passionate like Athos, rigulent like Porthos, end like Aramis, but also with the presence and tenacity of d'Artagnan, he was charmer, burger, battler, but he never put his sword at the service of a bad cause. As early as 1995, France, together with him, fully fulfilled its duty of remembrance. He went to the Vélodrome d'hiver to say these heavy words of meaning: "Yes, the criminal madness of the occupier was assisted by French people, by the French State. » "Did we learn all the lessons of the 20th century? He also asked at the UNESCO General Conference on 15 October 2001. This time, it was to the help of the "first peoples" he was stealing, "these isolated minorities with fragile cultures, often destroyed by the contact of our modern civilizations". He dedicated to them a museum that today bears his name. And then, because the human species cannot survive if it allows its environment to deteriorate, it was personally committed to the Charter of the Environment, whose principles have been enshrined since 2005 in our constitutionality block. Meanwhile, there was this great speech in Johannesburg on September 2, 2002, and the famous "Our house burns and we look elsewhere". His warning, more than ever, must be heard today. Finally, no one forgets with what strength Jacques Chirac was the face of France, since 1995 when he created the Rapid Reaction Force in Bosnia, and when he refused the Iraqi adventure in 2003. In both cases, he affirmed national independence while defending the prerogatives of the United Nations, and everyone here, I believe, can be grateful for that. [[smiles]] Such was Jacques Chirac: his daring blows, his mouths, his forks also led him into this gallery of extraordinary characters who shaped the Republic. That is why I will propose to the Bureau of the National Assembly that a commemorative plaque be affixed to seat No. 99, which Jacques Chirac occupied in this Chamber before leaving for the Elysée. He who pretended, no doubt by modesty, to love only military music and police novels, had read a lot, a lot of thought, and this is the message we can, I believe, retain from him: "Land of ideas and principles, France is an open, welcoming and generous land," he declared in 2003. "All the children of France, whatever their history, whatever their origin, whatever their belief, are the daughters and sons of the Republic," he said forcefully. Today, the children of the Republic lose a benevolent alderman, a terrible grandfather whose exploits will be told for a long time because he was all at the service of the Republic, the one that one makes live by shaking hands, listening, brewing the multiple components and influences that make the whole diversity of the French people. [[Applause fed on all benches]] From the republican triptych: freedom, equality, fraternity, it is this feeling of fraternity that he knew, better than any other, to offer in sharing and spreading. Farewell to Jacques Chirac, who passionately loved France, and whom the French bear forever in their hearts! The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, he had dreamed of himself a captain in the long run, to travel the world, improvising himself at the age of 18 on a coal freighter. Captain in the long run, he was eventually in our Republic. For forty years, he went through our political life with as much fervour as he explored the roads of silk or the roads of the early arts. This long-term captain was able to connect political continents that could have clashed or drifted. He was able to perceive before the others the displacement of the poles and the melting of the ice. He was able to gather and make a dam. Today, it is with great emotion that France pays tribute to Jacques Chirac. All our thoughts are directed to his loved ones, his wife, his daughter, his grandson, who accompanied him in his private and public life, especially in his final moments. Today, in this Chamber, we can see how much this Member of Parliament, this mayor, this minister, this leader of the majority or of the opposition, this President of the Republic has marked his century and his fellow citizens. Among all the French who express their sadness, since he left us on September 26, 2019, some are surprised to find so many young people. But many of Jacques Chirac's struggles and values have kept their topicality, for these struggles were just and these values are beautiful as anything that seeks to decipher the universal. He had cultivated the memory of the dark or glorious hours of our history of France to build a peaceful future. His speech by the Vel' d'Hiv' looked firmly at a past story that he knew could be repeated. He wanted a strong and soothing France, which refused any form of extremism. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of Parliament and members of the Government applaud at length]] Not all of us, ladies and gentlemen, shared all of his political ideas. Some on these benches, what you said, Mr. President, is valid for me, have known him much better than I did. I am thinking of President Jacob, whose deep attachment to President Chirac I know and whose grief I am now measuring. I am thinking of Hugues Renson and, on the bench of ministers, Jean-Paul Delevoye. Mr President, I know that it is not customary in this Chamber to mention the personalities who are present in the public: you will understand, however, that I associate with those who are living this sentence, particularly President Debré, President Ollier and Alain Juppé. For many, he was a leader, a companion, a friend, for others an adversary. But beyond partisan affiliations and beliefs, it seems to me that we can all salute today a man's passionate commitment to his country. It was this passionate commitment that had won her the hearts of our fellow citizens. It is this commitment that gives him his place in history today. Jacques Chirac was first a great parliamentarian, who sat here for seventeen years on the benches of the deputies and eleven years on the benches of the government. Nine times a member of parliament, the one who was once called "the samurai of Corrèze" was able to embody this balance between his small country, the Corrèze, and his great nation, France, which he loved with an equally demanding and generous love. Corrèze and France, in return, gave it its roots and authenticity. To remain faithful to what he believed was right, Jacques Chirac never feared to confront himself neither with his opposition nor, at times, with his own political family. In 1974, together with Simone Veil, he made a commitment to the IVG. In 1981, he was one of the few right-wing deputies to vote for the abolition of the death penalty. On these fundamental issues of life and death, illness and disability, he knew his home ports, those that one never loses sight of, even when one has to temporarily change his course because contrary elements are growing on the horizon. His home ports were human rights, attention to the most vulnerable, whose suffering revolted him. Its major laws of 1975, 1987 and 2005 transformed our view of persons with disabilities and began to facilitate their daily lives. Those who bore part of the world's calamity stopped him, and put him into action. Cancer, AIDS and road safety were national priorities. Uncompromising about human rights, he was also one of the pioneers of ecological awareness. We owe him, and we remember, great speeches in this area, but we owe him, and we remember less, the basics of our environmental law with the 1975 and 1976 Acts, and then, in 2005, the Environmental Charter. A leader of the majority and the opposition, Jacques Chirac tirelessly contributed to the stability of our institutions. Prime Minister, he had to define the first rules of cohabitation with President Mitterrand. President, he had the desire to modernise the Fifth Republic, with the great constitutional reform of 1995, which extended the application of the referendum and gave the assemblies the means to exercise, in a single session, their task of controlling the government, then, in 2000, with the establishment of the presidential quinquennium. He was a reformer, sometimes upset, because always concerned about balance. But his vision was far away, and was fair. This man in a hurry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, had the intelligence of long time. This enabled him, during his twelve years as President, to assert the place of a sovereign France within a reconciled Europe. Like those who had preceded him, Charles de Gaulle and Georges Pompidou, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing and François Mitterrand, he was a builder of Europe, convinced that France could not envisage a serene horizon in retreat and isolation. President Chirac was far too conscious of the perils of history to play the role of pacifist beat. He wanted France to be strong on the international stage, thanks in particular to its military power. This led him to abolish universal conscription, to form a professional army capable of projecting into all theatres of operation. That was what led him to resume nuclear testing. This led him to reject the horrors perpetrated in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Dayton Accords honoured France. Jacques Chirac joined the line of the Presidents of the Republic who made us proud to be French, proud to go out fighting for our values, on the other side of the world, or proud to hold back weapons, when they threatened truth and justice. In the face of the complexities of a world where the sense, sometimes, is stolen, when conflicts or illness disunite, he liked to contemplate the very pure lines of an African mask or a pre-Columbian statuette. He bequeathed to us the Museum of the First Arts, where humanity presents us with the infinite diversity of otherities that intrigue us and bring us together. He had become – he had not always been – the preferred political personality of the French. His style was that of a multi-faceted politician, a hard fighter, but also that of a sincere man, sincerely in love with his country and his fellow citizens, an accessible man, close to the people, French among the French. Today, ladies and gentlemen, in one final tribute, the French express a sadness and nostalgia that could evoke these verses of Saint John Perse, of which we know that Jacques Chirac was a great reader: "Thus speaking and discouraging, they establish his reputation. And there are other voices on his account: "...A very simple man among us; the most secret in his purposes; hard to oneself, and silent, and not concluding peace with oneself, but pressing, "Wandering to the living lime rooms, and fomenting at the highest point of the soul a high quarrel... At dawn calming down, and sober, seizing at the noses an invisible trembling beast... Soon perhaps, hands free, advancing in the day with the scent of viscera, and nourishing his clear thoughts in the day's milk... "... And tonight walking in vast, naked places... Mouth closed forever on the leaf of the soul! » [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of Parliament and members of the Government applaud at length]] This poem, ladies and gentlemen, is entitled "Friendship of the Prince." Jacques Chirac was not a prince. He was President, President of the French Republic, and he gave us his friendship, to all of us, whoever we are. And today we give him our highest consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u3	[[Mrs. and Mr. the deputies and members of the Government observe a minute of silence]] In memory of President Jacques Chirac, I invite the National Assembly to observe a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u4	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u5	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u6	The next item is the question to the Government. This afternoon, we are inaugurating the new formula for questions to the Government, including the introduction of a right of reply. As before, each Member of Parliament will have a total time of two minutes, but the one who will not use them entirely will now have the remaining time to reply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u8	[[Exclaims on various benches]] If a speaker wishes to use the remaining time after the minister has spoken, I will give him the floor again, and the available time will reappear on the screens. The Minister may also cross-apply to the Member, within two minutes, in the same manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u9	[[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the LR Group stand up and applaud]] Mr Christian Jacob has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for the words you both spoke to President Chirac. They touched all of us. Those who have never doubted him, not for a second, have a tight heart thinking about the strength of a fighter who eventually eclipsed himself. Those who were his companions, in the great victories as in the difficult moments, mourn the founder of our political family, from the RPR to the UMP. Jacques Chirac doesn't come from anywhere. It was built patiently alongside General de Gaulle and Georges Pompidou. He was deeply rooted in the terroirs, in consciences, in the imagination of several generations of French. The emotion that has taken hold of the French people since Thursday is alive because it is at the height of this rooting in the history of France: from now on, Chirac belongs to France. He was a great minister of agriculture, a great mayor of Paris, a great prime minister. In this House, alongside Simone Veil, he allowed the adoption of the law on abortion. He also defended with his heart the dignity of people with disabilities. And then he was the great President Chirac, this president so French, so gaulli in his unrivalled way of radiating France throughout the world, defending his independence and embodying his singular voice. It is one of the most beautiful images of France in the eyes of the world that has gone away. The French are moved because they feel, like us, that this president – their president – is perhaps the last of this dip: a simple, humble, fraternal, right and patriotic man, who has been able to establish a carnal relationship with our country. We loved her and thought with emotion of Mrs. Bernadette Chirac, her daughter Claude and her grandson Martin. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members rise and applaud. – "Congratulation! » on the benches of the LR group]] The emptiness that the French feel, our political family – his – measures it with infinite sadness and a ferocious desire to be worthy and faithful to its struggles, its values, its memory and its heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u11	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u12	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, LR, UDI-Agir and LT groups]] President Jacob's statement does not call for any comment from the Government, except for the one I now make in my personal capacity: this is not the case every day, but today we agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u13	Mr Hugues Renson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u14	On Thursday, 26 September, France lost a great head of state. The French lost a figure. I, for my part, like many, lost a marker. There would be – I would have – so much to say about Jacques Chirac, his courage, his audacity, his tenacity and, above all, his love of France and the French. For having accompanied him for a long time, including beyond the exercise of power, I measured what the heart of his commitment was, the substance of his message. Jacques Chirac – as you said, Prime Minister – had a special awareness of the long time. Better than anyone, he perceived what threatens humanity. It is to peace, sustainable development, dialogue of all cultures, social and national cohesion, respect and tolerance that he has dedicated his entire life. Fighting so contemporary. Among these battles was that of global health. Of all the inequalities, he said, the most hurtful is inequality in the face of health. He denounced the scandal of a world where diseases ravage the South when therapies and medicines remain in the North. Jacques Chirac championed equal access to treatment for all, and called for the creation of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. On 10 October, France will host a conference in Lyon to replenish this fund, with the aim of raising the $14 billion needed to save lives threatened by the major pandemics. France and the world have the opportunity – already – to be faithful to President Chirac's message and to carry on his work. Let's be up to it together! [[Mrs. and Mr. Members get up and applaud]] Prime Minister, how does France intend to bring to life, in a few days' time in Lyon, and more broadly in all fields, this political message which it has left us and to which many of us are so attached?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u15	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u16	Mr President, I want to share with you the emotion that I felt, as everyone here, after Jacques Chirac's disappearance. He has done a great deal for global health, but also for the health of our fellow citizens. As the Prime Minister recalled, he was with Simone Veil at the time of the passage of the IVG Act; it has initiated the three major disability laws; he has been an ardent advocate of road safety; He made the fight against cancer a major national cause and launched the first cancer plan. President Chirac has always been concerned about giving patients in the South access to treatment in the North. As early as 1997, he initiated the creation of an international therapeutic solidarity fund for the countries of the South. This fund, a precursor to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, was established even though triple therapies have been available to patients for only one year in the northern countries. The Global Fund was subsequently established in 2002, particularly under the leadership of France. Since its inception, it has allocated a total of $41.4 billion to 142 countries and saved 32 million lives. France is a founding member and the second largest historical donor of this fund, to which it has contributed more than €4.6 billion since its inception. As you recalled, France will host the sixth Global Fund replenishment conference in Lyon on 10 October at the request of the President of the Republic. We often feel that we have won the fight against AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. This is not true: these three diseases, which cause millions of victims each year, are the most deadly in the world today. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The goal is to raise $14 billion for the 2020-2022 cycle in order to save 16 million lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u17	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u18	Prime Minister, last Thursday, during the night, a serious fire ravaged part of the Lubrizol factory in Rouen, causing a black smoke that the inhabitants do not hesitate to compare to a real oil spill on earth. At this point, my point is not to seek responsibility. Internal, administrative and judicial investigations must do so, and hopefully as soon as possible. My point is not to question the actions of public officials. The firefighters were remarkable in courage, as were the employees who helped control the fire. My point is not controversial, even though there have been local failures in crisis management. Mayors were delivered to themselves and the population did not get the expected answers. As a result, the mistrust has developed. Trust must now be restored. We are making proposals for greater transparency and more concrete responses. Transparency is not a favor, it is the legacy left by Jacques Chirac in the Environment Charter. We ask you to recognize the state of technological catastrophe. This would be a strong signal to the population, a concrete measure that would allow compensation. We ask you to put in place a true medical follow-up plan, like what was done during the accident at the AZF plant in Toulouse. Smoke and odour caused vomiting, irritation. The nature of the products is concerned; the health condition must be monitored for the duration. We ask you to submit as soon as possible the complete list and the composition of the products stored. I'm surprised we don't have that information yet. Finally, we call for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry so that we can have a feedback which will enable us to make concrete proposals in order to strengthen, if necessary, the monitoring of the classified facilities, to improve the warning systems and to guarantee the populations concerned serious and independent information. [[Applause on the SOC benches, on a few benches of the FI and GDR groups as well as among non-attached Members. – Ms. Marine Brenier also applauds]] We want to act responsibly. You say you want the truth for the people and we want it too. But we owe them more than the truth, we owe them serenity. At this moment, Prime Minister, the Normans are not serene, they are angry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u19	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u20	Mr. Member, I was with you last night on the site to measure the scale of the fire and to thank, as you did, the firefighters, the prefectural corps, as well as government and community personnel for the remarkable work done in the early hours of the fire to prevent the tragedy from having even more serious consequences. I fully understand the emotion and anxiety of the Rouennais, of all the inhabitants of the metropolis and of the communes that have been overflew by the cloud. This concern is perfectly legitimate: we must listen to it, take it seriously and not turn it aside. We need to provide clear answers. In the face of national representation, I recall the Government's commitment to absolute transparency. All information, all scientific data are and will be made public. In these circumstances, false information may be circulating. This has happened since Thursday: false information and even false press releases from the prefecture of Seine-Maritime have been distributed. Why? I don't know, but this can happen and we have a specific example in mind. In this assembly, I would like to pay tribute to all the elected representatives of the French metropolis. They are demanding with regard to the State and industrial services concerned but have, since the beginning of this industrial disaster, an exemplary attitude. From day one, we wanted to apply the precautionary principle with vigilance as events unfolded. That is why we have made clear recommendations, which have been passed on to the public. That is also why we carried out the necessary cleaning very quickly, especially in schools before they reopened yesterday. As early as Friday, an in-depth monitoring campaign on all effects on water, air and soil was launched and sampling was carried out. The results are made public as they arrive. I asked the prefect of Normandy to report to the public on the progress of the work, every day at the end of the afternoon, at a press conference. The Prefect will be assisted by a national scientific support unit comprising, among others, the Director General of the Institut national de l'environnement industrielle (INERIS), the body responsible for expertise in industrial hazards in France, an expert from Santé publique France, the body responsible for protecting the health of the population, and the head of the pneumonology department of the university hospital centre in Rouen. Since the end of 2017, for safety reasons that everyone can understand, the complete list of substances on Seveso listed sites is known but is no longer made public.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u21	Oh, no! Not in these circumstances!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u22	Mrs. Batho!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u23	As an exception, this afternoon, the prefect will publish the list of products stored in burned buildings as well as the quantities that have burned. I make a firm commitment to it in this rostrum, and it will be held. We don't know everything yet, honourable Member, because not all the analyses have been completed. But I would like to recall what we already know. All the results of the samples we have available and which are public show a usual state of health air quality outside the site. Further analysis was undertaken to determine whether asbestos fibres are present in the air, since the roof of the buildings that burned contained asbestos fibres. The first results of measurements within a 300-metre radius will be available during the day. For perceiving them yesterday, I am aware of the inconvenient smells that persist and can persist. We are aware that they hinder and cause concern to the population, but again, the health authorities have confirmed to us that they do not pose a health risk. Mr President, there is much more to be said about the impact of the smoke plume on water quality. If I may, I will respond to these points as they are addressed in the questions. I do not want to abuse my position as Prime Minister to expand too much. However, I would like to say a few words about the recognition of the state of technological catastrophe, which you have asked for. The Bachelot Act of 2003 established a compensation scheme for victims of technological disasters. This scheme concerns accidents with serious consequences for real estate or movable property – it is not surprising that it was created as a result of the explosion of the AZF plant, which had caused the destruction of a considerable number of dwellings. As I speak to you, honourable Member, I am not sure that the precise conditions of application are met in this case. In any case, I will ensure that this does not lead us to exempt the industrialist who is, in legal terms, the first responsible for the effects of the fire on the environment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As for your request for long-term medical follow-up, I am obviously in favour of it. The local health authorities will take care of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u24	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u25	Prime Minister, yesterday Monday, you made the trip to Rouen. Humant the air, you have admitted very disturbing smells, very painful but not harmful. It is your word, and it alone reassures France, especially since you promised "absolute transparency. » This absolute transparency, can you do it right now? Can you tell us very simply what products were burned in the fire at the Lubrizol plant?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u26	He just said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u27	The Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u28	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I think the Prime Minister has just answered your question very precisely: this afternoon, the prefect will make public the list of all the products that were in the hangar that burned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u29	Why not now?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u30	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u31	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] No, Prime Minister doesn't answer my question and you don't answer my question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u32	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u33	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] We are five days after this major disaster. If you want to lift the veil of suspicion, how come you waited five days to publish, perhaps, the list of these products?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u34	You're irresponsible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u35	[[Applause on the benches of the FI Group and among the non-attached Members. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] That's why I keep my question. You have this list. Why didn't you make it public much faster? Why don't you make it public today, right now, in front of the Members of Parliament and the French?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u36	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Only Mr Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u37	Since Friday, you know that the plant contained potassium hydroxide, a corrosive substance for the skin, eyes and especially the respiratory tract. Yes or no, ladies and gentlemen, did this product burn in the fire? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The plant also contained hydrochloric acid, an active ingredient in mustard gas known since World War I. Yes or no, did this product burn in the fire? In the plant was sulfur chloride, classified as toxic material with serious immediate effects. Yes or no, did this product burn in the fire? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Since Friday, you know. How do you explain that the prefect only makes this list public today perhaps?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u38	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u39	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on IF benches and among non-attached MPs]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As the Prime Minister has explained to you, it is for safety reasons, in particular because of the risk of attack, that the orders concerning installations classified for the protection of the environment are no longer made public in a gross manner, with all the quantities and types of products stored. It was therefore necessary to identify the nature and to list the quantity of products stored in this specific warehouse, and then to remove from the list the products that could have been evacuated during the fire thanks to the professionalism of the rescue services, to which I want to pay tribute again, as well as that of the inspectors of the classified installations, who guided the intervention of the firefighters. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group – Protests on the benches of the FI group]] [[Exclaims on FI banks]] We are facing an industrial disaster, a serious crisis that could cause concern to the French, in any case the Rouennais. The situation deserves better than the polemics that you are trying to create, honourable Member, especially since air quality measures are being carried out on a continuous basis – a progress made possible by the return of experience from previous accidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u40	We live there! We'd like to have the list!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u41	I would ask you to calm down, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u42	Listen to the answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u43	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] From the beginning of an accident, the emergency services and those of the State are now equipped to carry out these samplings and measurements on a continuous basis. This allows us today to state that none of the pollutants sought is present in the air that the Rouennais breathe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u44	Call François de Rugy back!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u45	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u46	[[Applause on several benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups as well as on a few benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Prime Minister, last week, a global vice-president of Google came to explain to us that his company intended to exonerate itself from the application of the law to create a neighbouring right for the benefit of news agencies and press publishers, which we just voted for. He did so in the unctuosity and sometimes the harshness of a language that was Shakespeare's, but also that of the arms of iron that the United States sometimes imposes on us. In essence, the Google company tells us that it is ready to recognize the neighboring right of copyright, if and only if the press renounces it. As if an employer had an employment contract signed if and only if the employee renounced his remuneration! [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on a few benches of the LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] Prime Minister, force must remain in the law. Firstly, because it is the press and therefore a pillar of democracy. Secondly, because it is a principle: in France, the law is made for all, whether we are powerful or miserable. And even if we consider ourselves all-powerful, it is not possible to exonerate ourselves from its application.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u47	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u48	As you know, last March the European Parliament voted on a landmark directive on copyright, which aims to recognise and defend throughout Europe the role and value of creation, intellectual or artistic, in the digital world. In practice, it recognizes the right of authors, as well as publishers and news agencies, to fair remuneration for their articles. The latter are often used by platforms, to which they earn significant revenues. France was the first State to transpose this directive. Thanks in particular to your support, and under the joint leadership of MPs and senators, the law to create a similar right for news agencies and press publishers came into force on 25 July. After actively mobilizing against the draft directive, Google launched last week a new publishing tool for publishers. However, this tool has been configured in such a way that it does not give rise to any remuneration for publishers and news agencies. This position is not acceptable. In principle, first of all, because the political objective pursued by the creation of the neighbouring right and its translation into law are very clear: to allow a fair sharing of the value produced, for the benefit of the platforms, by the press content. On the form, then, because the approach adopted by the directive and the law is to refer to the negotiation between the actors the determination of the methods of remuneration of publishers and news agencies. Imposing the rules of the game unilaterally and leaving no room for negotiation is contrary to the spirit and the letter of the directive. More broadly, and beyond the issue of neighbouring law, it is not understandable to our fellow citizens that an actor, however powerful – in this case, he is very powerful – can modify the rules of use to circumvent a legal obligation. This behaviour raises a legal issue, but also a serious ethical issue. Perhaps it is to be hoped, Mr President, that this Google approach reflects an error of appreciation and not a desire to engage in a test of force with France and Europe. Perhaps it is to be hoped that Google will enter into negotiations with publishers and news agencies, as the Minister of Culture invited him to do today. As for the press, it must unite to ensure that its rights are recognized in this discussion. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We all know that it is a European response that must prevail. It is up to Europe to engage an arm of arms, if necessary. As the first to transpose the directive, we are the first to deal with this question, but it will be a question for all European countries. The area of law and freedom that we want to build together is threatened in this area. We do not want to act in a spirit of defiance but of promoting cultural diversity and pluralism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u49	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u50	[[Smile]] [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you, Prime Minister. I salute your position, which hardly surprises me because, as an author yourself, you know the neighboring right! Would it not be useful for the Government, around the Minister of Culture, to bring together the GAFAs and all the press players in France so that the negotiations you mentioned finally begin? Every day that passes represents in fact a loss of revenue for the press and, necessarily, a day of less remuneration for journalists.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u51	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u52	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That will be the case, Mr.Member: the Minister of Culture intends to meet with all the publishers, as well as with Google. He must also consult with his colleagues at European level in order to put in place the first elements of the reply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u53	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u54	The Minister for Agriculture and Food, the Act for the Balance of Trade Relations in the Agriculture and Food Sector and a Healthy, Sustainable and Accessible Food for All Act (EGALIM), provided for measures to protect people living near areas of use of plant protection products, in particular through the signing of departmental commitment charters. This will be the case in most departments by the end of the year. This method of work, of consultation between the State, the agricultural world and the people living in it, is to be preferred. Adapted to each territory, it allows differentiation and mutual respect among all actors. However, since the enactment of this law, the Ministry of Agriculture has consulted a project to establish untreated areas – ZNT – close to inhabited areas. As farmers suffer from the consequences of climate and industrial disasters and face increasing difficulties in paying enough income, this new regulation, which is difficult to apply and anxiogenic, calls into question the work already done on the ground. This legislative instability is rightly a cause for concern. Yes, our agriculture uses plant protection products, and all members of our group are, like farmers, in favour of reducing or even abolishing their use.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u56	Nevertheless, farmers must be given time to adapt without jeopardising economic balances. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on a few benches of the LR group]] Minister, why didn't you wait for all the departmental commitment charters to be signed, implemented and evaluated? Do you have an accurate estimate of the agricultural area affected by this new constraint?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u57	The Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u58	Madam Member, I confirm that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition have consulted draft regulations aimed, for the first time, at creating a distance of protection for homes from pesticide applications. This is an important mechanism that addresses a public health issue. The distances in the documents consulted were advocated by ANSES – the National Agency for Food, Environment and Labour Health – which is a scientific body. The scheme will be structured around two elements: on the one hand, the minimum distances which will apply by default throughout the national territory; On the other hand, as provided for in the EGALIM law, the possibility of adapting to certain local situations by means of charters with special provisions which can be decided by the farmers themselves. We have undertaken a broad consultation on these texts. A total of 50,000 contributions have been received, highlighting the French interest in this subject. By the end of October, we will analyse all these contributions and, of course, we will take them into account in the preparation of the final draft texts. The commitment that had been made will be fulfilled: the texts will be published before 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u59	You're not answering the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u60	It is about finding the best way to respect farmers' activities – and to do so, to reduce the use of synthetic plant protection products – while guaranteeing our citizens the protection they expect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u61	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would also like you to clarify the means that the Government will use to enable research and innovation to find an alternative organic solution to these plant protection products. We can't weigh on the shoulders...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u63	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u64	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u65	Rouen Lubrizol is a national disaster of the Seine-Maritime in the Hauts-de-France. Rouen Lubrizol is a state of shock but also of anger, always intact in the population. Rouen Lubrizol is a requirement of transparency that you yourself have claimed. Rouen Lubrizol is therefore, in the light of the imminent publication of the list of burnt products, the urgent need to carry out additional and independent studies of air, water and soil quality, in conjunction with elected officials, professional organisations and associations. Rouen Lubrizol is the need to carry out immediately an individualised health check for those who have been at the outposts in the fight against fire and the employees working in the immediate perimeter. Rouen Lubrizol, they are also hundreds of jobs, employees whose immediate future must be assured. It is a quick compensation of farmers, the knife already under the throat. Finally, it is the immediate exercise of the right of parliamentarians to conduct a fact-finding mission on the ground. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Régis Juanico also applauds]] Rouen Lubrizol is all that and probably more. Prime Minister, are you ready to defend and bring these demands to fruition?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u66	The Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u67	Like the Prime Minister and other colleagues, I visited the Lubrizol site. I therefore fully appreciate the anxiety and emotion of the inhabitants, who witnessed the very serious industrial disaster that took place in Rouen last week. I would like to reaffirm the greatest demand and transparency that guide the Government's work. Many measurements were made on the night of the fire. After analysis, results were made public, followed the next day by complementary results. All these results will continue to be presented on the prefecture's website. The analyses actually aim to look for the usual pollutants in the event of a fire in the air, but we also monitor the quality of the water and the fallout of the cloud of smoke which, as you pointed out, extends beyond the Seine-Maritime, to Valenciennes. As the Prime Minister has indicated to you, the list of products on the site will be communicated by the Prefect this afternoon. On the basis of this list, the Minister of Solidarity and Health and I will ask INERIS – the National Institute for the Industrial Environment and Risks – and ANSES – the National Agency for Food, Environment and Labour Health – about their recommendations, which we will obviously implement, whether it is to carry out additional samples or to look for additional products. I assure you once again of the Government's willingness to make all the transparency on this industrial accident and to draw all the consequences from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u68	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u69	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group, on several benches of the SOC and FI groups, on some benches of the LT group and among non-attached Members]] [[Same movements]] I would like to remind you, Madam Minister, of the heavy context in which this event is taking place. The majority has diminished the role of health and safety committees in business, as well as the environmental authority. It has reinforced the secrecy of industrial affairs.You do not seem to measure the harmfulness of these provisions in such a context!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u70	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u71	On behalf of the Libertés et Territoires Group, I would like to pay tribute to President Chirac and to express my condolences to his family. I also have a thought for my colleague Sylvain Brial, from Wallis-et-Futuna, who is still in hospital. [[Applause on several benches in the LT and FI groups as well as among non-attached MPs]] Prime Minister, my question is about the mafia drift in Corsica. The dreadful phenomenon of common law is advancing in open face, in the open and in costume, pressuring public procurement and the abusive issuance of building permits for decades.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u72	It's serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u73	Considering the number of homicides per capita, the most criminogenic region in Europe is not Sicily or Calabria, but Corsica. It doesn't honor anyone here. Corsican society has made an awareness, but in the short term it cannot do justice itself. In view of yesterday's news, I regret that some are making the mistake of returning to political violence. [[Applause on several benches in the LT and FI groups as well as among non-attached MPs]] The Community of Corsica, for its part, does not pay any attention to police or magistrates. She doesn't have any legal powers. Autonomists do not ask for them; What they demand is institutional and normative tools to carry out long-term public policies against speculation, poverty and underdevelopment that are the root of mafia drift. We can help you prevent it, but it is up to you alone to fight it by putting political will and human resources in it. A failure in this matter would be yours, and only yours. [[Applause on several benches in the LT and FI groups as well as among non-attached MPs]] What steps do you intend to take, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u74	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u75	You are right, honourable Member, to mention the very strong tensions we are currently experiencing in Corsica: eight homicides since the beginning of the year, two aborted attempts...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u76	It's serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u77	...and a totally unbearable level of violence. The accounting regulations of recent months, even if they are in line with the statistical standard we have unfortunately known in 2018, 2017 and 2016,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u78	That's not an answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u79	... show that today we must support first those who are investigating, unrelentingly. I would also like to point out to the national representation that we have in Corsica today a rate of questioning far above the average, which means that the perpetrators and sponsors of these acts will be brought before the courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u81	I take note of your comments, Mr President, but also of the initiatives of the anti-mafia collective which has just set up and which, like you, denounces a form of omerta, of preventing it, especially for the local authorities. The collusion that you have mentioned between these major criminal groups and part of the political world is indeed unbearable. For this reason, the prefecture and the State services are particularly concerned with the exercise of the control of legality, both in terms of the occupation of the public domain, the issuance of building permits and the award of important contracts. In these areas, we must be fully mobilized. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] But as you pointed out, Mr President, the best way to work for the serenity of the inhabitants of Corsica is to work with all the elected representatives in the economic development of the island. This is the message that the Prime Minister conveyed during his recent visit, and that is what is embodied in the transformation and investment plan for Corsica, which will extend the exceptional investment plan beyond 2020 and on which we must all find ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u82	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u83	[["Hey, no! » on several benches of the LR group]] I have not heard many concrete measures to deal with the urgency and priorities of Corsica today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u84	No blabla, no results!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u85	[[Applause on several benches in the LT and FI groups, on a few benches in the LR group and among non-attached MPs]] A few days ago, we murdered a young man, Maxime Susini. A few years ago, a director of the General Council of Haute-Corse was murdered. Today, concrete measures are needed to ensure that Corsica no longer knows these problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u86	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u87	The concrete measures, Mr President, are first and foremost the total commitment of our security forces in the fight against the scourge of these killings, of which you will note that the number has fallen almost continuously over the last ten years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u88	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u89	It's pretty good news, even though it's still at too high a level. Above all, Mr. Member, it is a matter of defining together...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u90	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u91	Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u92	Prime Minister, Thursday 26 September, in the middle of the night, a huge fire broke out in a petrochemical plant in the city of Rouen. The firefighters of Seine-Maritime, with the reinforcement of their colleagues from the neighbouring departments, reacted immediately and effectively to contain and then extinguish this fire. As the Government listens deafly to the demands of the firefighters, who have been on strike for more than three months, the deputies of the Republicans want to commend the promptness and effectiveness of our firefighters. Since Thursday morning, a number of measures or the absence of certain measures are questioning and worrying the populations of Normandy and Picardie. Why didn't there be any alerts to the populations bordering the disaster before daybreak, six hours after the fire started? Why this cacophony of successive state declarations? What is to be understood behind the assertion that the Rouen air would be of "usual quality"? Prime Minister, the consequences of this industrial accident are many for fragile people, but also for those who work outside. The police officers who intervened on this site on Thursday are on strike. Firefighters are sick. What do you say to them? Harvests are affected for more than 250 kilometres. What accompanying measures can you guarantee to farmers who are not insured against such a hazard? [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Prime Minister, France is clearly not in a position to cope with major industrial disasters. We lied to the French about the radioactivity generated by the Chernobyl explosion. Our compatriots today want the truth. You owe it to us! As the Lubrizol company burns, you make us look elsewhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u93	The Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u94	Mr President, I would like once again to join in thanking the rescue services, who have made a remarkable effort to limit the consequences of this fire, and in particular to avoid any over-accident. Thanks to their effective action, supported by DREAL's classified facilities department – the Regional Directorate for the Environment, Planning and Housing – only 15% of the site was affected. We will have to do, as we do systematically, a feedback on crisis management, including information for the population. In any case, I can assure you that the Prefect, who had the air quality measures that rescue services are now in a position to carry out from the start of the fire, has defined the protective measures in line with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u95	We're not gonna fire the prefect!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u96	The Government's commitment from the outset is to ensure a high level of demand and full transparency on the subject. This led the prefect to publish the results of the analyses as early as Friday, and then to complete these results on Saturday. During the press point it will hold again today, it will specify the substances present on the site; Depending on these elements, we will be able to adapt the sampling and analysis system. I hear you criticise the management of industrial sites in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u97	He didn't criticize, he just noticed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u98	I think we have one of the best arrangements in this area, especially since the AZF disaster. I would like to pay tribute to the 1300 staff of the classified facilities, who have carried out 39 inspections on this site over the past two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u99	Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u100	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LaREM Group]] These are not criticisms, Madam Minister, but renewed questions that await answers that we still do not have since our colleague Christophe Bouillon's question. I appreciate your response to the government's embarrassment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u101	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u102	My question, to which I join my colleagues in Martinique, is addressed to the Minister of the Interior. Martinique is facing a significant increase in gun violence. Seventeen individuals have been killed since the beginning of the year, the latest of which are a 14-year-old and two women, one of whom was a mother of six children. The reasons for this are drug and arms trafficking in the West Indies, a persistent social and economic divide, fuelled by the disappearance of aided contracts to support so-called fragile populations, as well as a staggering lack of staff and resources for the judicial and specialized police and customs officers to respond effectively to these problems. These acts plunge our families into mourning and anger, and our police officers face daily professional difficulties – many of them have been injured in the performance of their duties. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] Minister, Martinique must not become a non-lawful territory. We say it forcefully, stop violence and delinquency! Stop with the guns! Stop crying! In order to preserve the already fragile social and demographic balance of our territory, and in accordance with your regal mission to guarantee public security everywhere in France, the elected representatives of Martinique call for the release of at least 1000 posts for associations to ensure support and mediation on the ground, the implementation of a specific plan of action based on legislative measures against the proliferation of firearms, as well as the strengthening of the police force by the recruitment of an additional eighty women and men. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] In August, in the face of the seriousness of the situation, the mayor of Fort-de-France and the parliamentarians of Martinique asked by mail to meet with the ministers of the interior, overseas and employment as a matter of urgency. Minister, how many deaths, how many broken families and orphans will it take before you finally comply with our request?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u103	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u104	You are right to point that out, Madam Member, the situation in Martinique is very worrying. Since the beginning of the year, there has been an increase in the number of homicides, very often linked to drug trafficking and arms trafficking that you have cited. The use of heavy weapons is increasingly being observed where so far white or small arms have been used. You stressed the importance of drug trafficking on the island, particularly from other countries. This is a problem that we know all the better because you, together with the mayor of Fort-de-France, questioned Christophe Castaner and myself on this subject, and because our police officers and gendarmes are also increasingly victims of the violence on the island. In the face of this situation, we are far from remaining inactive. We are strengthening our strength on the island: 840 police officers are mobilized, as well as 613 gendarmes, that we regularly strengthen by sending, whenever possible, mobile forces. You have cited the judicial investigation services, which do a remarkable job in Martinique and pay particular attention to finding the perpetrators of this violence. In fact, an individual was arrested in the case you mentioned, where a mother was the victim of a homicide. We are also strengthening the fight against drug trafficking, which results in extremely large seizures of drugs and weapons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u105	With what means?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u106	We will continue this action as part of the generalization of the plan to combat drug trafficking, with the creation of an anti-narcotics office, OFAST, which will have an office in Martinique. We will therefore strengthen the fight against these traffickings and guarantee, as you wish, the rule of law in Martinique. I can assure you that the Government is fully mobilized...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u107	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u108	Mr Damien Adam has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u109	My question, to which I associate all the elected representatives of the Seine-Maritime, parliamentarians and local elected representatives, is addressed to the minister for the ecological and solidarity transition. Last Thursday, around 5:30 p.m., the Rouennais woke up in a rush when very strong explosions sounded from the Lubrizol factory, located three kilometres from the city centre. A fire had ravaged the site for more than two hours, emitting a plume of smoke that was felt as far as Belgium, a smell of nausea and soot. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the LR, UDI-Agir and LT groups]] I would also like to welcome the decisive action of the 240 firefighters, as well as the police and all the State services that have mobilized to contain this fire. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As a Rouennais, residing right under the place of the passage of smoke plume, I am taking the relay before you, Madam Minister, of the concern of the inhabitants of the Seine-Maritime and Rouen, without however falling into the political exploitation that some elected officials want to make of them who do not hesitate to shake the fears. On safety, first of all, the information of the inhabitants and the elected representatives was not up to the level in the early hours of the fire. Our alert systems are no longer adapted to our connected lifestyles, where social networks have become so important.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u110	You're the one who's disconnected!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u111	We will need to take all the consequences and modernise our procedures to ensure that the transmission of information is faster and more efficient. As regards health, then, the inhabitants of the cities crossed by smoke are concerned, despite the many reassuring analyses made available to the general public. In this regard, I welcome the decision to make public the names of the products that have burned. It was a strong demand from the locals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u112	Since time, you should have the list!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u113	We still don't have it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u114	You have announced transparency; It is essential, as is long-term monitoring of the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u115	It's unrealistic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u116	Finally, with regard to the environment and agriculture, while air analyses do not show any particular harmful effects of smoke, soot spread along the plume raises questions, particularly for crops.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u117	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u118	What's going to happen tomorrow?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u119	Nothing, as usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u120	Can you give us some perspectives on the next steps, as administrative and judicial investigations are opened, pending the launch of necessary parliamentary action?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u121	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u122	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The images of the fire moved France as a whole...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u123	The Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u124	Rest assured that the Government is fully mobilized, under the authority of the Prime Minister, to make all the transparency about this accident, to draw the consequences and to provide adequate support for the affected populations – I am thinking in particular of farmers. Many measures have already been taken, beginning with sampling of pollution spillovers. Initial results have been obtained, particularly on soot, but we expect further analysis of a possible presence of dioxin in order to determine the fate to be reserved for agricultural production. If they prove to be excluded from marketing, compensation will be awarded accordingly. Also, be assured that a systematic and in-depth environmental monitoring campaign will be deployed – it began on Friday. Health studies may be launched on this basis under the authority of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. We will finally have to understand the causes of this fire, which it is not normal that it could have occurred on a site classified Seveso. Judicial and administrative investigations have been initiated to determine whether additional measures should be taken to protect this type of site. I welcome the decision of the chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning to hold a hearing on this subject. This will help to answer all the questions that parliamentarians are asking themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u125	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u126	My question, which I associate with Valérie Petit, is addressed to the Minister of Solidarity and Health. Pregnant French women want to be able to give birth as close to home as possible. A recent survey shows that the first criterion for choosing a maternity is proximity to the home. Geography therefore takes precedence over technicality, and we must hear it. Pregnant women express a need for accompaniment, listening and closeness, especially when waiting for their first child. They must know that they will arrive in time for maternity after the first signs of contractions. In the end, time is the only thing a future mom can control. When a safe medical-surgical environment is added to the vicinity – medical imaging, laboratory, operating room, resuscitation room – you will understand the popular emotion of temporary or permanent suspension of a maternity. This is the case today in Tourcoing, after the sudden announcement of the suspension of childbirth, which we hope is temporary and as short as possible. It is inconceivable that a city with 100,000 inhabitants – the second of the Hauts-de-Frances – and the surrounding municipalities will not be able to benefit from this service they are plebiscite. I think that Mr Darmanin will not contradict me. The situation in the cities of Tourcoing, Illkirch, Mulhouse and Fougères, to name but a few, is unfortunately not isolated: in 20 years, 40% of the 814 places of birth have disappeared, and the number of women living more than 45 minutes from maternity has doubled. [[Applause on several benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Minister, what action do you intend to take to provide the best response to French women and to ensure the meshing of our territory through a network of maternity hospitals combining proximity and quality of care?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u127	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u128	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u129	I understand the emotion felt by the people of your area, Mr. Member of Parliament, particularly in Tourcoing, where maternity is temporarily closed due to problems of medical demography and internal difficulties on the team.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u130	It closes in my house, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u131	As you know – and Gérald Darmanin told me about it at the time of the announcement of this temporary closure – the regional health agency is making every effort, together with the surrounding hospitals, to reopen this maternity as soon as possible and keep it open. It is obviously out of the question of closing this maternity. We will solve this problem, and recruitment is expected as soon as the boarding school exits in November. France faces a complicated medical demographic problem, mainly linked to very bad decisions taken between the 1990s and 2005 leading to the training of fewer than 4000 doctors per year. We are paying the price today. The law on the organization and transformation of the health system has indeed reopened lenumerus clausus,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u132	But there are no more jobs!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u133	... but the future doctors who will benefit from it will only complete their studies in ten years. Until 2027, the number of doctors in the Territory is expected to remain stable. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] We must therefore rethink our organizations. This is what we do by allowing the delegation of certain tasks of doctors to other professionals, by creating positions of medical assistants and by strengthening cooperation between health professionals. Count on my full commitment to deal with these difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u134	Mr Eric Woerth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u135	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Farewell veal, cow, pig, brooded! Mr. Minister of Public Action and Accounts, you are giving up on all the public finance objectives you set yourself. The 2020 budget is the least effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u136	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u137	In three years, public debt has increased by €190 billion, public spending by €78 billion and the government's own deficit by €25 billion. In three years, you have moved from a timid supply-side policy, which is more favourable to business, to economic activity and thus to an increase in purchasing power through income, to a demand-side policy, which is based on tax cuts and increases in social transfers, all of which are heavily financed by debt. You prefer the short term to the long term imperatives. You rely on good external news instead of saving money.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u138	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u139	Abolition of forty-seven posts in the state civil service, reduction of one euro of the audiovisual fee... What an effort!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u140	The account isn't there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u141	You are announcing a massive reduction in taxes next year, but companies will pay an additional €16 billion in corporate tax, and households €3 billion in additional income tax. The good news turns into bad news...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u142	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u143	...because you take back in part with one hand what you gave with the other. First of all, the reform of the CICE – the competitiveness and employment tax credit – leads to a mechanical increase in corporate tax, without you trying to compensate for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u144	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u145	Second, the source tax increases income tax, particularly because it takes into account current year's income, which is often higher than the previous year's income. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In truth, I think that's the budget you didn't have to make – and you didn't want to. At a time when heavy clouds are weighing on European and global growth, monetary and fiscal policies are at a standstill. Minister, how do you intend to get out of this impasse?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u146	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u147	Mr President of the Committee on Finance, I have the impression that you cannot say that the levy at source is a good thing for the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u148	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u149	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] But we must recognize the mistakes that we have made. This is a beautiful measure, which will allow the French to benefit, as early as January, from the income tax reduction that you will certainly not fail to vote with us, in a few days' time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u150	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u151	You're drowning the fish!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u152	Since you judge our first two budgets to be business-friendly,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u153	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u154	... why did you vote against it? The third exercise seems deplorable to you today. It is true that there is a difference between us...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u155	There's none!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u156	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM Group – Exclaims on the benches of the LR Group]] ...as we affirm three priorities in the budget we are presenting: tax cuts, tax cuts and tax cuts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u157	You're lying, you're lying, you're lying!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u158	Mr Eric Woerth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u159	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] Your priority, Minister, seems to be the increase in debt, the increase in debt and the increase in debt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u160	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u161	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Woerth, do I need to remind you that when you were Minister of Budget, Public Accounts and Public Service, the debt increased significantly as the country went through an economic crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u162	Where were you? A little humility!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u163	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] For the first time in 20 years, the deficit has fallen below the 3% mark. It will decrease continuously to 2.2%. [[Same movements]] For the first time in more than 30 years, public expenditure has declined from 54% to 53.4% of compulsory levies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u164	Stop the pipe!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u165	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For the first time since I did not even have a bachelor's degree, the debt, which had continued to rise, will fall – certainly weakly, by 0.1%, but after being stabilized for the first time in ten years. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Rejoice, Mr Woerth: taxes are falling, unemployment is falling and public accounts are recovering. That is what the parliamentary majority is doing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u166	We don't live on the same planet!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u167	This isn't the first time you've lied!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u168	Pinocchio!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u169	Stop it, you're getting married at the city hall!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u170	And since then, Mr. Minister, have you had a bachelor's degree?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u171	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u172	My question, which I associate with Liliana Tanguy, is addressed to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs. You recently said, about Brexit, that British Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced "new proposals", "other solutions", "alternative arrangements" to ensure a Brexit with agreement, but that in reality you did not see anything coming. And for good reason! This weekend, at the Conservative Party Congress in Manchester, Boris Johnson confirmed his decision to leave the European Union on October 31. The economy and finance bear political uncertainty very badly. The prospect of a Brexit without agreement, the dilatory manoeuvres and the procrastination of Boris Johnson may, in the long run, lead Europe into a crisis comparable to that of 2008. For selfish reasons of domestic policy, the House of Commons demands that the British Prime Minister obtain a new deadline for Britain's withdrawal from the European Union – which he obviously refuses to do. It is high time for the European Union to put an end to permanent challenges to the agreement signed with Theresa May. As you firmly state, minister, "we are not going to do it again every three months." [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore ask you to clarify the position advocated by the French Government in Brussels and to confirm that our country refuses any further postponement of the Brexit and remains on 31 October, with or without agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u173	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u174	We have been in uncertainty about Brexit for more than three years now. The difficulty is reinforced by the absence of a majority in the House of Commons, whether in favour of the withdrawal agreement, the withdrawal without agreement or the holding of parliamentary elections. There's no majority for nothing! We know what the British don't want, but we'd like to know what they want. Prime Minister Boris Johnson reiterated his opposition to an extension of the negotiating period, believing that he would obtain an agreement with the European Union by the European Council on 17 October. Therefore, there are only three weeks left; It's not much, and there's an urgent need for the Prime Minister. The proposals that have been made so far cannot be reconciled with the so-called "Holy Friday" agreement on the Irish question, nor with the maintenance of the integrity of the internal market, so that the European Union remains available for other proposals that would be compatible with the withdrawal agreement. However, for the time being, no such proposal has been made. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You know France's position: it considers the withdrawal agreement to be the best solution. However, the hypothesis of an exit without agreement on 31 October remains the most plausible. However, the British will have to say how they see the future, because some geographical and historical constraints mean that, in any case, the United Kingdom will always remain in Europe, and that future will have to be foreseen together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u175	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u176	I should like to add, Mr Minister, that this uncertainty causes great concern among fishermen in the Hauts-de-France, Normandie and Brittany.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u177	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u178	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the GDR group. – Exclaims on several benches of the LR group]] I know, however, that you, Didier Guillaume and Amélie de Montchalin, are committed to protecting French fishing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u179	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u180	Mr. High Commissioner for Pensions, you have made the world of liberal professionals angry: they denounce a project to capture their autonomous pension schemes, which are unprecedented in the social history of our country. They let you know, and your answers don't satisfy them. They do not accept the universality of regimes. They do not agree to be assimilated to public employees and civil servants. They do not agree to go under the control of the USSRAF, the Unions for the recovery of social security contributions and allowances. They chose to be liberal and want to remain liberal. These Liberals, as you know, have long organized themselves, profession by profession, to create and manage their diets independently. These autonomous schemes are self-financing and are well managed, so much so that they are economically and demographically surplus – unlike the general scheme, whose accounts are in the red.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u181	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u182	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] How do you respond to these liberal professionals, High Commissioner?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u183	The next speaker is the High Commissioner for Pensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u184	Mr Door, first of all, I want to pay tribute to your investment on the issue of pensions: everyone knows your competence in the matter. Everyone also knows the consideration that you, as a doctor, give to the liberal professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u185	It's not just doctors!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u186	I stress that the universal system we want to establish is based primarily on universality. However, the French and French express their commitment to more fairness: it takes the same rules for all, let everyone get a little out of the corporatisms and ensure that the regime, within the framework of professional mobility, accompanies professional paths in all their diversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u187	No need for professional mobility in doctors! Let the doctors stay doctors!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u188	Secondly, I would point out that many liberals are "polypensioners"; Thus, two thirds of lawyers do not go to the end of their careers. [[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] [["How? »on the benches of the LR group]] But I can hear the mobilizing speeches. We have discussions with each professional category and we will provide them with solutions that move towards convergence. Contrary to what the National Bar Council claims, we never said that we were going to double the contributions. We are going to raise them to 28 per cent, but we are going to make sure that this does not affect the economic balance. We will do the same profession by profession. [["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] I hear we're going to take private reserves to fill public deficits. I will prove it to you: per capita, the reserves of public systems are higher than those of the private system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u189	Since public systems work well, why do you want to shoot them?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u190	Yes! Why this reform?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u191	Don't touch the grisbi!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u192	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You see, then, that to everything you have said, Mr. Door, we have the ability to provide secure answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u193	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u194	High Commissioner, these professionals are lawyers, doctors, dentists, pharmacists, nurses, notaries. They are indeed endowed with reserves, and these are consistent: they were valued at around 28 billion euros, which is not nothing. They don't need any state aid. They have total autonomy. So they don't want us to raise their contributions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u195	What if they ever get in deficit?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u196	They don't want us to cut their pensions either. They leave much later than others in retirement: after 65 years. All these professionals won't let us lay our hands on their reserves. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Do not eradicate a system that works. Mr. High Commissioner, give them clarifications so that they can hear right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u197	The High Commissioner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u198	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] That is precisely the method that the Prime Minister has asked us to follow. We'll have discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u199	Another big debate?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u200	We'll have to set up a commission!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u201	High Commissioner for Smoke!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u202	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ... and we will try to show everyone that if we want to defend pensions, we must not preserve the status quo but guarantee the future for future professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u203	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u204	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u205	"Today, Saturday, I woke up terribly tired, exhausted after only three weeks back. The problems since long before the beginning of the school year have accumulated, it is the fate of all the directors unfortunately. The succession of inspectors that passes to Pantin doesn't realize how exhausted everyone is by these rhythms. But the directors are alone! Everything happens in the violence of immediacy. They are particularly exposed and are being asked to do so more and more without ever protecting them. The idea is not to wave and sacrifice the shipwrecked in the storm! I thank the institution for not getting my name dirty. Signed: "Christine Renon, exhausted director." This letter, Prime Minister, has been sent to all the directors of Pantin's establishments, to the inspector, to the trade union organizations. Unfortunately, I cannot read it in its entirety here, but it is a public cry that Ms. Christine Renon launched just before her suicide on Saturday morning in her kindergarten in Pantin. In an upsetting text of dignity and restraint, but also of clarity, it says its exhaustion in the face of the reforms carried out on a forced march, the untenable rhythms, the lack of human and material means, its feeling of loneliness and the lack of support on the part of the institution. Work made impossible under these conditions – impossible until irreparable. Unfortunately, many of them, like her, are in great pain at work. Some go to suicide. The teachers are done, all the way to suicide. The police are done, all the way to suicide. Caregivers are done, until they commit suicide.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u206	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u207	[[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] This is the result of years of systematic destruction of the public service, which you are pursuing. This farewell letter is not the first alert. My colleague Sabine Rubin gave Minister Blanquer 450 testimonies of teachers describing their working conditions. In vain. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mr. Nicolas Dupont-Aignan also applauds]] When are you going to give the figures for suicides in the public service? When are you going to hear the suffering of the staff? When are you going to stop ruining institutions and leading people to suicide?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u208	The Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u209	Mr. Lachaud, the tragic death of Mrs. Renon, who ended her days last week in Pantin, where she was running a school, is upsetting. He is upsetting for his loved ones, for his colleagues, for the educational community of Pantin – to whom I obviously want to express our deepest condolences, support and solidarity –, upsetting for the entire house of national education and all its agents, upsetting for all those who are viscerally attached to ensuring that the Republic keeps all the promises it makes to its servants. Jean-Michel Blanquer visited Pantin last week. He spoke at length with Ms. Renon's colleagues and with the educational community. All are the subject of psychological support, which is also offered to families. He also commissioned the General Inspectorate of National Education and Research to shed light on the circumstances that led to this tragedy – but, as you said, Ms. Renon had written a letter, which was published. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] In this letter, she refers to her absolute exhaustion in the face of "all these little things that take us 200% of our time." She refers to her loneliness, to the feeling that she does not have an interlocutor to talk to about her working conditions. It is obvious that this must be an issue for us. For several years, the duties of school principals have been strengthened. At the same time, we know that, unlike colleges and lycées, schools are not public institutions and that their directors do not have the same prerogatives, no special status, not the same possibilities as the management staff of colleges and lycées. There is therefore a real task to be done to simplify their daily lives and strengthen their missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u210	You're doing the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u211	You've been in business for three years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u212	[[New exclamations on FI banks]] This work was carried out by some of your colleagues – I am thinking of Cécile Rilhac and Valérie Bazin-Malgras, who wrote a report on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u213	Mrs. Obono, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u214	We are working with them on measures that could be presented as a result of this work. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] I think we can agree that this tragedy will invite us all, an educational and elected community, to move forward on this issue without taboos – in any case, Jean-Michel Blanquer is ready to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u215	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u216	Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health, you announced a year ago, right here, the return to balance of the social security budget in 2019, but that is not the case. The deficit, this year as well as next year, will exceed EUR 5 billion. If the lower-than-expected growth partly explains the situation, the non-compensation of emergency measures by the state budget is a political choice, your choice, and it is not without consequence. While the expectations of the hospitals are immense, you are asking even more savings and efforts from the institutions, with a new savings of more than 4 billion euros planned for the disease branch. Hospitallers and city doctors are already protesting against this draft budget and are brandishing the threat of a strike. You also plan to sub-index pensions, except for the smallest ones. The old age sector will have a deficit of more than EUR 4 billion. And it is once again the quasi-freezing of family allowances and personalized housing subsidies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u217	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u218	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In the face of such a picture, Madam Minister, what efforts, up to the challenges of health and solidarity, are you contemplating? What long-term vision, what objectives do you have to present to us, allowing us to assert a real ambition together?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u219	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u220	Mr Perrut, I did introduce yesterday morning, together with Gérald Darmanin, the PLFSS – Social Security Financing Bill – for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u221	Where's the announced surplus?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u222	This text continues the transformation of our social protection system. In particular, we must face new challenges: not only health issues, but also issues of solidarity, I will come back to that. [[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] The bill also extends the Government's policy of increasing the purchasing power of the French, which is why it takes note of the economic and social emergency measures adopted by Parliament last December. It is therefore a PLFSS that rewards work and protects the most vulnerable. These changes are made possible by the very serious economic and fiscal policy pursued by the Government over the past two years. The bill will also take into consideration, as I said, new social risks, particularly the risks associated with break-ups – I am thinking of single-parent families, family caregivers, the need to better accompany our seniors. We are going to do this by making a special effort on the medico-social sector. The loss of autonomy will, as you know, be one of the priorities of the coming years. We hear the demand for a more just social system, and the proposed social security budget takes into account the Government's intended comprehensive response to that request. Be certain, honourable Member, that the balance of social accounts remains the Government's objective. However, this will have no effect on the financial situation of our hospitals, since I have already guaranteed, for this year, rates equivalent to those of last year. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] It is therefore a balanced bill, which takes into account new needs and reflects the Government's desire for a serious budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u223	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u224	And the surplus, where is it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u225	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u226	Minister, I invite you to listen to our hospitals: they are exhausted, they need beds, staff, and salary upgrading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u227	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u228	But the minister sees nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u229	Expectations are immense. In fact, strike movements, alas, are emerging. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Caroline Fiat also applauds]] As for the measures you are taking to promote carers' leave, the renovation of EHPADs – residential institutions for dependent elderly people – or the recruitment of staff, they are insufficient: you need to go further. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] We are therefore waiting, Madam Minister, for the bill to be old and self-governing. This text will have to be ambitious and provide the necessary funding! When will he be introduced to us? We're waiting for him on those benches anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u230	Mr Benjamin Dirx has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u231	Minister for Action and Public Accounts, 2019 was marked by the successful implementation of the source levy as well as additional tax revenues. At the same time, the Finance Bill for 2020, which you introduced on Friday, contains an important tax relief measure. Referring the LaREM Group's taxation to the major national debate, I, like my colleagues, have had the opportunity to hold numerous meetings in my constituency. In this debate, the French told us that the tax burden was too large, far too important for the middle classes. Attentive to them, our majority group has proposed to the Government a significant reduction in income tax. We are pleased to note, when we read the finance bill, that the work done in recent months has borne fruit: thanks to the actions of our majority, a reduction of €5 billion in income tax, in line with the announcement of the President of the Republic, will support the purchasing power of the French. It represents, in practice, an average gain of 300 euros for almost 17 million tax households. We are therefore leading, on the one hand, to an increase in revenue and, on the other, to a reduction in taxes. Can you, minister, explain to us the evolution of these two trends? Furthermore, we know that Google litigation should generate additional revenue. Indeed, thanks to the law on the fight against fraud, defended by Émilie Cariou and Daniel Labaronne, we have significantly strengthened our tools to combat tax and customs fraud. Can you give us the first results?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u232	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u233	You asked several questions. First, I confirm that Bruno Le Maire and I will put untold tax cuts to the vote of parliamentarians in the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u234	Tax is solidarity! It's revolutionary!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u235	Under the quinquennium of the President of the Republic, the tax will have decreased by 40 billion: 27 billion for households, 13 billion for businesses. This is unprecedented in the history of the Republic. The removal of the housing tax alone amounts to 23 billion, if you count the rebates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u236	That's why the French love you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u237	On the other hand, the additional revenues you have mentioned are also at the meeting because, without increasing the taxes of the French, and even by reducing some, we have done better to recover them, in particular that of the income tax, thanks to the levy at source:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u238	It's your only success!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u239	...2 billion good news, if I may say so! We have fought better against the oblivion of the tax return – by those called "administrative phobics" –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u240	Like a former member of the Government?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u241	... and against its omission by some people taking advantage of the fact that they spent only a few months or a few years in France, before returning to their country of origin. The recovery rate is now higher than that observed by our services after two years of tax checks. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, the Anti-Fraud Act is beginning to bear fruit. The circular signed by Mrs. the Keeper of the Seals and myself attests to this. The Constitutional Council has validated the legislative provision, supported, among other things, by Mrs Cariou and by you, which puts an end to Bercy's lock: 85 per cent of additional cases have thus been transmitted to the prosecutor's office within six months. You have cited an emblematic litigation, even if the resulting revenue will be included in the 2019 accounts. In fact, we will have the opportunity to come back, during the review of the finance bill, to the fact that 2019 will also be the best year of recovery in the fight against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u242	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u243	Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health, you are very much aware of your willingness to increase access to care in the territories; The presentation of the PLFSS – Social Security Financing Bill – for 2020 does not derogate from this rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u244	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u245	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u246	In reality, the situation continues to deteriorate dangerously. Thus, in the Sarthe, in my constituency, we learned last Tuesday that the emergencies at the Bailleul hospital would now be closed by night, due to a structural shortage of emergency doctors. Yesterday, for the same reason, in the same hospital, the functioning of the SMUR – a mobile emergency and resuscitation structure – was completely interrupted. The Sarthe and Loir Health Centre, which records 24,000 visits a year, is the first health remedy for a population of 150,000 in rural areas, while the nearest hospital centres are 50 kilometres away. These closures, which make it impossible to ensure the continuity and permanence of care, have catastrophic consequences for our territory and our fellow citizens. They are deeply concerned by private ambulance workers, who leave them alone in emergency situations. In addition, they are in complete contradiction with the terms of your emergency restructuring pact, which provides for 24-hour access. Pending hypothetic solutions, patients are referred to the emergency room at Le Mans Hospital. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Madam Minister, the lack of emergency doctors and the closure of emergency services in rural areas cannot be a fatality to which we should resign ourselves, as your services suggest, nor the justification of what unconvinced strategy of territorial reorganization I do not know. When do we get any real emergency measures to save our emergency services?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u247	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u248	Thank you for expressing the legitimate anxiety of the population in your constituency. The difficulties in ensuring continuity and continuity of care in the Sarthe and Loir health centre stem from the problem of medical demography that I was talking about earlier. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Despite the efforts of the institution, supported by the regional health agency – the RSA – and by all the centres of the territorial hospital group, it has been impossible, since the end of September, to guarantee 24 hours a day the continuity and security of care, and this will continue during the first half of October. Until the end of this period, the Emergency Reception Service will be open from 8:30 a.m. to 20:30 a.m., and a nurse and a caregiver will remain present to indicate the most appropriate solution for patients who would report outside of these schedules. All the actors involved in patient care and personal assistance have been warned of this temporary organisation: they are mobilized to meet the needs of the population and to combine quality, safety and continuity of community care. Along with the ARS Pays de la Loire, we make every effort to ensure the continuity of care and to restore the full-time operation of the emergency reception service of this hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u249	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u250	To return to a normal situation and ensure the safety of our fellow citizens, we need urgent doctors. However, 30 per cent is missing in the Sarthe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u251	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u252	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] That is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u253	Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u254	My question, to which I associate my colleague from Vendée Philippe Latomb, is addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. Michelin, the historical French tyre manufacturing champion, confirmed on September 25th that the fate of the sales factory in La Roche-sur-Yon remained very uncertain. Last week I was able to meet the director of this site specializing in the manufacture of high-end tyres for heavy goods vehicles: more than 600 jobs are directly threatened. Beyond this very worrying situation, the entire European tyre industry is in decline, for a paradoxical reason: the environmental quality and durability of its production are far higher than those of Asian tyres, at an average price of one third lower. In this context, I would like to reiterate the importance of preserving the flagships of our industry, particularly in strategic sectors such as the automobile industry. This is due to the influence of French know-how, but also, and above all, to the maintenance of the employment pools that depend on it. In this regard, the closure of the La Roche-sur-Yon plant would have dramatic consequences. We must do everything we can to safeguard this production unit; the Michelin group must keep and accompany its employees. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] One possible solution would be to adapt the production tool to the economic and ecological challenges, in particular by allowing innovation in tyre retreading activity. More generally, can we not think about the reciprocity of our exchanges with Asian countries? I would therefore like to know, Mr Minister, what solutions France can support with its European partners to ensure the sustainability of these sites and the environmental quality of our production.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u255	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u256	Michelin has an important industrial footprint in Western Europe, particularly in France, and it is the last tyre manufacturer at this level. We are committed to the company so that this situation can continue, and I know you are, too – your question is proof of that. As you said very well, the Chinese competition that has emerged today accounts for 30% of the market share. That's why we signed a green growth commitment in 2017: to enhance retreading and develop competition in this area. That is also why we have demanded and obtained anti-dumping duties at European level: in order to obtain the reciprocity that you call your wishes, because unfair competition is not market competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u257	A carbon tax on tires!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u258	For this reason, a few days ago, the Government supported an amendment to the draft law against waste for a circular economy, submitted by the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, with the aim of facilitating access to public procurement for retreading operations. Brune Poirson can confirm that. Finally, that is why I have specifically asked DGCCRF – the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – to carry out a strengthened control programme in order to combat the risks of unfair competition. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Michelin group opened a concertation, put the maps on the table; he has invested, and the employees have also made efforts, to find a solution. We will accompany them so that this solution is as respectful as possible of the interests of employees and our industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u259	Mrs Marianne Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u260	The Minister of National Education and Youth, the Toupi Association, representing families and people affected by cognitive disorders, as well as the Autism France and Info droit handicap associations, reproduced the survey they had conducted in 2017 and 2018 among parents on the conditions of the return to school of their children with disabilities. This investigation was made necessary by the failure of the Government, which did not provide, contrary to our expectations, a precise assessment at the end of the commission of inquiry on the inclusion of pupils with disabilities in school. The road remains long, despite the very great law of 2005, which we owe to Jacques Chirac. Your assessment is worse than in previous years, for lack of communication on the number of students who should benefit from an AESH – accompanying students with disabilities – and on the number of full-time equivalents they represent. Are the numbers so bad? By extrapolating the results of the survey, we can estimate that 11,000 to 13,000 disabled students are currently deprived of AESH,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u261	It's huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u262	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... and 1900 to 2200 totally deprived of schooling due to the absence of AVS – school life assistant. That's a sad record. Minister, answer us, respond to families in distress!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u263	The Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u264	Mrs Dubois, you asked the Government about access to school for children with disabilities, and you referred to the 2005 law designed by Jacques Chirac, who was the founder. A great deal of progress has been made since then: in 2006, 118,000 children with disabilities were in school; At the start of 2019, they were 361000, an increase of 25% compared to last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u265	The numbers change all the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u266	A political choice was made for this new year, led by Jean-Michel Blanquer and Sophie Cluzel: putting in place a real public service of the inclusive school and devoting the necessary resources to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u267	We don't see him in the field!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u268	We recruited an additional 4,500 accompanying staff, an increase of more than 7% over last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u269	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u270	We created 200 ULIS – localized units for school inclusion. In this way we have created 3000 inclusive poles of personalized support, responding to a simple logic, beyond the figures: it is not for families to wait for an accompaniment, but for the already recruited companion to wait for the family at the place of schooling. We're making progress. But of course there are still situations to be dealt with, hence the establishment of a telephone line in each department, with an answer in 24 hours. Of course, we are available to respond to the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry and to move forward with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u271	Mrs Marianne Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u272	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the SOC, FI and GDR groups]] A gap separates your beautiful words from the reality in our territories. We have all been receiving calls in this Chamber since the start of school to help families whose children are deprived of schooling...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u273	Get out of your ministry!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u274	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the SOC, FI and GDR groups]] ... or are only entitled to a discount education – no room in ULIS class, repetitions due to lack of space, absence of AESH – or on too part time. Families suffer and feel abandoned. While LSPs, which are inclusive localized support hubs, should, according to your ministry, make the organization of the service more flexible in order to respond to local issues, they are not properly organized, which further complicates the method of assigning HSPs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u275	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u276	Madam Member, I am not saying that there is no suffering or problems. I am simply saying that we are unlocking all the means necessary to remedy it or at least trying to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u277	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u278	It's not working!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u279	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] That's the message I'm wearing. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You highlight the contrast between dream and reality by forgetting that, for this coming year, your department, the Loiret, has twenty-four additional inclusive poles of localized accompaniment and five new ULIS, bringing their number to 112. The acts are there; That is the reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u280	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u281	"They think we're stupid. This sentence, Yohann Diniz, spoke just before the 50-kilometer race was held during the World Track and Track events this week in Doha. This great French champion was forced to give up, like 40% of the marathon competitors, because of "overheating" and to avoid endangering his health due to a suffocating heat worthy of a sauna: 32 degrees and a humidity level of 75%, in the middle of the night. Like all athletic enthusiasts, I am saddened by the spectacle offered since the beginning of these worlds, whose International Federation, in 2014, entrusted the organization to Qatar. How can one take the risk of putting the physical integrity of athletes in play at major championships for financial and commercial reasons? Coupidity has taken over the values of sport. Only 50,000 tickets were sold, or 10% of the capacity of the Khalifa International Stadium, most of the time empty, as was the case before the final of the 100 meters, which took place in a cold and artificial atmosphere. According to many witnesses there, the organization is catastrophic. These worlds are a sporty but also ecological heresy. The open stadium is air-conditioned with 3000 vents, in total contradiction to the International Olympic Committee's 2020 agenda, which places the preservation of our environment at the heart of the organisation of major sporting events, thanks to a specification scrupulously respected, for example, by the Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris 2024. I also want to denounce the slavery and infernal working conditions that have already caused the deaths of hundreds of Indian and Nepalese workers on the titanium construction sites in the run-up to the 2022 football world cup, which will be held for the first time in winter in eight air-conditioned enclosures. [[Applause on the SOC, LR and GDR benches]] While strong suspicions of corruption and influence trafficking weigh on the attribution of the worlds of athletics and football, which led to the opening of an investigation by the national financial prosecutor's office, my question is simple: how could international sports bodies make the irresponsible decision to entrust the organization of these two major international events in Qatar?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u282	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u283	Mr Juanico, I can only share your observation, especially since it echoes the events of all the athletes, not just ours. Sportsmen, you know, are my first compass.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u284	Nothing for the territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u285	Not for the associations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u286	It is dangerous for high-performance athletes to make sustained efforts under excessive heat. This is neither the first nor the last time this has happened. We saw him in Rio, in Paris this year during the football World Cup. This will be the case next year in Tokyo, where temperatures will be excessive. Our fellow citizens also suffer, in their daily practice, from these temperatures. The consequences of global warming are particularly visible in the sport environment. That is why we must mobilise our entire sports ecosystem so that it is more committed to fighting this phenomenon, not only in France. In our country, nearly 300 event organizers and sports equipment managers have signed a charter with the Ministry of Sports on their environmental and social responsibility. We have the ambition to promote these actions, which can be developed at major sporting events, at European and international level. It is indeed at this level that we can find an answer to your question, honourable Member. As you know, the specifications of major sporting events are the responsibility of international federations. How can we act?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u287	Sending a tweet?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u288	In 2021, France will preside over the European Union. I aim to include in our agenda the subject of sport from the point of view of the conditions for the allocation of GEIs – major international sporting events – in order to finally establish a dialogue with international federations and other European governments, while respecting their autonomy and neutrality. Another solution would be to confer greater responsibility on athletes in parallel. We are going to go this way through a future bill that will tend to strengthen the role of athletes in the governance of national and, I hope, international federations. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Nevertheless, Mr President, I would like to remind you of the universality of sport. It must become a reality, but not at any price.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u289	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u290	Madam Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, if the 2020 Finance Bill provides for an increased budget for ecology, which we can be pleased with, three points alert us, on which I would like to ask you. First, the proposed budget provides for a reduction of 1,073 jobs in the ecology sector, making your department the second largest contributor to the downsizing. This decision questions, at a time when new missions need to be deployed and with more and more actors. Public institutions and central and decentralized departmental staff are concerned. What are the budgetary tasks involved in these post reductions? On the other hand, aid for energy renewal is not sufficient. The transformation of the tax credit into a premium upon completion of the work is a good idea, but it is implemented in a fiscal framework that is too constrained. We propose that the new schemes could benefit the landlords, which is not foreseen at this time. What is more, rather than abolishing the tax credit for the energy transition paid by the most affluent households, could we not consider refocusing aid towards the most efficient work? As for the amount of the premiums, could one consider creating a zero balance for the most precarious by combining the various schemes? [[Applause on the benches of the LT group and on some benches of the FI group]] Finally, how to make the car bonus more effective? For the past three years, emissions from new cars have been rising again, notably as a result of the rise in sales of SUVs. What do you think of the idea of completing the reform of the malus provided for in the PLF – finance bill – for 2020 by a weight component of the vehicle, which would favour the lightest and least resource-consuming vehicles?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u291	The Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u292	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Mr Orphelin, as the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister had announced, ecology is at the heart of the priorities of Act II of the quinquennium. The draft finance law for 2020, presented last week, gives substance to this priority, with amounts in sharp increase: plus 832 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u293	Down!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u294	We will not be able to go around the budget debate in two minutes, but I would like to present the three priorities that guide this budget. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] The first is to accompany the French in the energy transition. The device of the energy check will continue its rise in power. Similarly, we will help the French to acquire cleaner vehicles, thanks to a conversion bonus and a bonus, which, overall, amounts to 800 million euros. It should be remembered that the malus, particularly in the sense of what you indicate, will now apply to vehicles emitting more than 110 grams rather than 117 grams of CO. The amount is increased sharply: from 10500 to 12,500 euros. We will be able to discuss any further adjustments that may be made. Energy renewal is also a priority, with at least the same means as in 2019: 3.5 billion euros. The challenge is to accompany the French who need these renovations as closely as possible; This is the work that Emmanuelle Wargon is doing, in connection with Julien Denormandie. I will mention two other priorities: to invest in cleaner and more efficient daily transport, by allocating €3 billion in credit to AFITF – the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France – and to support our policy on water and biodiversity, in 2020, that of COP15, allowing us to make new commitments for the next decade.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u295	Job cuts are on the rise!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u296	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u297	If we want to do more for energy renewal, we will have to devote more resources to it, hence my very concrete proposals, which I hope will be discussed in a constructive spirit in the near future. It's very important. If renovation is to be accelerated, more resources and tools will be needed. [[Applause on a few benches in the LT group]] As for the bonus-malus, we must succeed in setting up an incentive mechanism. That is also the meaning of my proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u298	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u299	Prime Minister, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the IPCC, adopted on 24 September the conclusions of a new report on the consequences of global warming for the oceans and cryosphere. They are more than alarmist since sea levels could rise up to 1.10 metres by 2100, which would have serious consequences for the world's population, particularly the 680 million people living in coastal areas. These populations will be the first victims of the expected effects of climate change on the oceans. France, of course, will be no exception. Indeed, a quarter of our coastline is snacked by the sea, and 1.4 million residents are at the mercy of its ravages. In addition, 850,000 jobs are at stake. The cost of damage caused by a 45-centimetre rise in water is estimated at between €3 billion and €4 billion per year by 2040. In this scenario envisaged by the IPCC, beyond the flooded coasts, 4,500 kilometres of roads, 350 kilometres of motorways, nearly 2,000 kilometres of railways and entire cities could be affected! Prime Minister, in the face of these major threats, the Government's action falls far short of the demands of the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u300	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u301	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We need quick and strong action. President Chirac said "our house is burning." He could have added: "our house is sinking." Isn't it time to do more to meet this major challenge?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u302	The Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u303	Mrs Kuster, the report presented last week by the IPCC is a new warning cry. The observation is simple: the melting of the ice accelerates, the sea level rises faster than expected, the coral reefs are threatened. The consequences are direct to man, especially when he lives along the coastlines. This alert cry must be heard by all, and we must act on all the tables, starting with halting climate change. The objective of carbon neutrality in 2050 is now enshrined in the energy-climate law, and various tools have been foreseen to achieve this, including the closure of coal-fired power plants by the end of the quinquennium, the introduction of a new mobility policy following the mobility bill that was recently discussed before your assembly at second reading, and our commitment to energy renewal. We also need to act to manage the inevitable consequences of global warming, to cope with disasters, to accompany communities, to preserve our coastlines. This is the meaning of our national climate change adaptation plan, which we must no doubt update by drawing, as the Prime Minister has requested, the consequences of the return to experience of the heat waves and droughts that we have experienced this summer. Finally, France is taking this action on the international stage. Climate, biodiversity and oceans have been at the heart of the G7 and the UN General Assembly. The oceans will also certainly be at the heart of COP25, which will be held in Chile at the end of the year. In the face of those who still doubt and those who might give up, the President of the Republic and the Government are more mobilized than ever to combat climate change and protect our biodiversity, acting at the international, European and national levels, in conjunction with all the actors involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u304	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u305	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, I hear your self-satisfaction, but let me doubt whether the local authorities concerned and the inhabitants of the coastal areas are prepared for the challenges ahead, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u306	Mrs Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u307	Minister for Agriculture and Food, since 2009, the development of diversification agriculture in the overseas departments has received an additional annual allocation for the programme of options specific to remoteness and insularity – POSEI – of €40 million per year. Today, overseas professionals fear that it will be frozen at the expense of their diversification efforts. As you know, any reduction in aid in island economies, where production is linked, coupled with agro-processing, almost automatically hinders the development of the agricultural sector. This amount of $40 million does not aggravate the budgetary constraints of the State; On the contrary, it creates more wealth and more activity, and even serves as a lever for development projects that have been finalized by the strategic sector plans put forward by the general states of food. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Will support for agricultural diversification initiated by governments over the past ten years be maintained?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u308	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u309	Mrs Kéclard-Mondésir, like all the Members of your territory, you have an appointment tomorrow at the Ministry of Agriculture to discuss all these issues. To answer your question clearly, the $40 million will obviously be retained in the finance bill, despite budgetary constraints. The POSEI amount is also unchanged. The Government – the Minister for Overseas Affairs works there every day – is committed to maintaining the economic development of the overseas countries and territories, which are essential for agriculture. Overseas countries must take up their agricultural future with arms, rework on the sectors and aim for food self-sufficiency, which is still lacking. To help you achieve this, we want, together with you, to reorient the agricultural sectors throughout the overseas territories, start a major transformation and create beautiful animal crops.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u310	Mrs Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u311	Of course, but what about the allocation of EUR 40 million in the general budget? There and the fear of the economic actors in the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u312	One more shot from Darmanin!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u313	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u314	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Minister for Overseas Affairs does not understand your question, and that reassures me. We will have an opportunity to talk about it tomorrow, but there is no cause for concern: nothing has changed, the amount of the envelope is kept. The challenge is the transformation of the overseas agricultural and economic sectors in order to achieve food self-sufficiency. In any event, rest assured, the Prime Minister has recently confirmed this: POSEI's appropriations like the EUR 40 million of the CIOM – the overseas interministerial committee – are maintained.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u315	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u316	Before asking my question, which is addressed to Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of National Education and Youth, in charge of association life, I have a thought for Christine Renon's relatives and colleagues as well as for all school directors and principals. Thank you, Minister, for your words to the educational community. It's a matter of concern to all of us on these benches. My question, however, is about another subject. Mr Secretary of State, as you know, associations – all as much as they are – participate in the social and solidarity network of our territories, which the State most often cannot provide on its own. They forge the bond that promotes social cohesion and prevents any kind of fractures. While their means are often modest, the commitment that drives those who make their daily work possible is invaluable and indispensable. The associations carry out complementary missions to the public service. Present in both rural and urban and peri-urban areas, in metropolitan France and overseas, in the smallest parcel of the Republic, of which they form the identity, they represent a precious investment, a guarantee of an open, generous and dynamic society. But if we're going to be able to invest in associations, we need to invest. That is the meaning of the announcement you made a few days ago: the release of a €28 million envelope in favour of the voluntary sector. This is excellent news, in addition to that of the FDVA – Fund for the Development of Associative Life – which distributes 25 million euros each year to support and develop our associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u317	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u318	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] My question is simple: can you tell us how this measure is implemented?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u319	The Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u320	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Mrs Rilhac, thank you for your question, which allows me to pay tribute, like you, to the work and commitment of the millions of volunteers who support the associations in our territories. Yes, we can applaud them! You have seen them all over the last few weeks on the occasion of the forums of the associations that traditionally take place in our local communities. Yes, associations are essential to social life, social ties and democracy in general. For many French people, especially young people, they represent schools of democracy and commitment. As you said a year ago, I presented a plan for the development of associative life, set out in several measures, on which we are still working and which is regularly enriched. In order to continue this, we will find substantial resources in the 2020 budget. In particular, we want to respond to a strong challenge: the ageing of associations. While only 7% of community leaders are under 36 years of age, it is necessary to support the transmission of knowledge and responsibilities to the younger generation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u321	The retirement age must be lowered!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u322	Of course, we need the commitment of our elders, who invest and bring associations to life, but we also need to encourage and encourage those who are younger. For example, the €28 million announced over the next three years should enable the voluntary sector to create sustainable and robust jobs. Let us be clear: this funding is intended to accompany and support the association itself and not the beneficiaries of the posts. It will allow 4000 funded posts to be deployed to the tune of 7,000 euros per year for three years. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] To answer your question, I wanted to simplify things as much as possible: associations will have to send a very simple CERFA form to the departmental services of associative life, youth and sports, placed under the authority of the prefects. A specific communication explaining the modalities of the approach will be sent to associative actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u323	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u324	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I wanted to draw your attention to the FDVA in order to avoid the difficulties they had experienced when it was set up two years ago. In fact, a number of associative actors alerted me, at the associations' forums, to the fact that the information to set up the grant dossiers was unclear or even non-existent, as the associations found themselves having to set up often complex dossiers in very short periods of time. I know your commitment to the community and count on your vigilance in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u325	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-01-O1002.u326	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the bioethics bill. The meeting is adjourned.
