ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u1	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of Mrs Valérie Rabault's motion for a resolution to relaunch a state that is now in a breakdown (No. 2016).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u2	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Louis Bricout spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u3	Neither the twenty weeks, nor more, of the action and demands of the yellow vests, nor the long weeks of the great debate will have sufficed to make clear to this government its failures, which were felt by the inhabitants of the most fragile territories as real social and territorial fractures and as a total lack of consideration. I am afraid that my five minutes of semi-listening will not succeed in influencing the policies of this government, which are unfair when they are not cynical. I might as well tell you that I do not expect much from your mock democracy. Nevertheless, this motion for a resolution allows us to address various areas in which the State is disengaged. I will refer to the dematerialisation of services and medical demography, subjects which are extremely important for the rural areas that are dropping out. In his 2018 Annual Activity Report, the Defender of Rights, Jacques Toubon, is concerned about the increasingly fragile balance between public services and equal access to rights. With the explosion of inequality, poverty and exclusion, for more than two years now,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u4	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u5	... because of the ultraliberal policy pursued by this government, we are witnessing several phenomena that hinder access to fundamental rights and contribute to creating a diffuse sense of rupture between users and between territories. Access to services was one of the main concerns of the yellow vests and, despite the measures announced by the Government at the end of 2018 and following the major debate, remains a major concern of our citizens, especially the most fragile. Obsessed by budgetary balances, to compensate for the gifts you give to the richest, you swear first only by digitization and dematerialization to achieve savings. Why not, after all? Any technological path is good to exploit, provided you do not move forward, as you do, without caring about men or territories. Are you really aware of the fractures you cause? They are primarily territorial, for those who do not have a sufficiently developed network. It should be noted that 7.5 million of our citizens are deprived of the Internet. They are then social, for the most modest populations: you put our seniors, isolated in our territories, away from their families, in a situation of real fragility. As far as health and access to care are concerned, each of us has concluded greeting ceremonies by wishing our fellow citizens a good year and good health. It's good to say it; Making what they say possible is better. In terms of access to care, the alert should be sounded. As the motion for a resolution points out, the number of transitions to emergencies has tripled over the past 25 years, reaching 21 million in 2016. We are asking you to extend the budget from EUR 500 million to EUR 600 million to unblock the situation and take the time to put everything down. Will you hear that? With regard to medical demography, the Government had been doing so for more than a decade with its proposals and incentives for the installation of doctors in the caretaker areas. The local elected representatives are also working to break up their territory in order to install this essential tool for the exercise of this profession, which is the multi-occupational health home, which allows the realization of a medical project. You boosted the numerus clausus: we welcome it. However, this is not enough, so much so. You have not understood that the incentive has found its limits, because our territories are faced with a problem of attractiveness to attract new doctors or specialists, whose choice of implantation depends not only on professional but also on personal and family issues. However, you are sweeping aside the proposals of our colleague Guillaume Garot, like all the regulatory measures. There are real outbiddings between territories to attract new doctors. The same applies to hospitals. We're frying indecency. You should focus on this situation. In my constituency, La Thiérache, a coherent and united territory, you are doing even worse, since you have succeeded, with your armed arm, the regional health agency, in sowing zizania by declassifying a small piece of territory, the canton of La Capelle, from the carencased areas. You have created a situation of unfair competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u6	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u7	The Defender of Rights has received calls for help from users who fail to find a new attending physician, specialist or nurse at home. Is it not time to move on to coercive measures, which I will describe as mild, only for a few years, for the benefit of our territories, with individualised accompaniment? This sacrifice seems acceptable to me. Mr Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, take the time, thanks to this motion for a resolution, to consider our remarks. Make this moment of democracy a privileged moment of listening: it is the French who ask you to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u8	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u9	The Socialist and Related Group today invites us, through a motion for a resolution, to study the avenues for a return of the State, as well as the actions to be implemented in order to restore its presence and effectiveness. The problems raised by this text are well known to all in this House, because many of our constituencies, whose successive majorities have not cared for themselves, have been affected by the gradual abandonment of the state. Thus, in my department, the closures of post offices, gendarmerie or cash in rural areas began before 2017, with a peak under the chairmanship of Jacques Chirac and Nicolas Sarkozy: between 2002 and 2012, the state civil service lost 25.18 per cent of its staff in the Cher, 18.2 per cent in the Centre region and 14 per cent in France as a whole. Between 2012 and 2017, François Hollande increased the number of national education staff by more than 50,000, but at the same time, he...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u10	At the same time, already!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u11	... reduces the budgets of local and regional authorities, which de facto results in the loss of 24,000 jobs from 2014. Therefore, this motion for a resolution could have been a useful way to think together about the actions to be taken together to remedy this situation, if it did not contain a cunning aspect, since it is addressed to the majority and to the Government which took up this subject in arms, by the very ones who, only two years ago, were in power and did nothing to solve the problem they denounce! It could be fun, if the situation was not so serious for our fellow citizens, for this is a magnificent work of self-criticism to which the socialists had not accustomed us until then. If there were only one proposal to be accepted, the first would be sufficient, which "invites the Government to revive a state that is now failing". When we, like you, have made inaction its trademark and rafistolage its code of conduct, which has led to the greatest political detour of the Fifth Republic, we must have the humility not to teach those who have undertaken a major action for the benefit of the territories and the citizens. Because yes, ladies and gentlemen, our majority since 2017 has advanced France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u12	Mr Macron wants to abolish 120,000 civil servants: it was in his program!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u13	In 2018, it is the second largest country to invest, and investment rates have been the highest in 12 years. By opening up administrative and financial channels, the return to growth has reduced the unemployment rate, which has been at its lowest level in ten years. The Government's action has also reduced the deficit to its lowest level in a decade. These indicators are those of a situation that is improving and a policy that will bear fruit in the long term.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u14	And the new expenses, how will you finance them?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u15	Similarly, the proper conduct of public accounts is the best way to prepare for the future. For what your motion for a resolution does not say is the inconclusiveness with which, for thirty-five years, public money has been managed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u16	MODEM also managed it since it was in business under Chirac!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u17	All governments, whatever they may be, have continued to contribute to the debt of the State, by carrying out policies that they could not finance, by lightly addressing the issue of the deficit and always putting back to tomorrow the decisions that might have been required and preventing the continued deterioration of public action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u18	Bayrou was a minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u19	You cannot blame this majority for wanting to reform the state to make it more effective and refocus it on its essential tasks, when you yourself have not been able to do so. We should recall this simple thing: fiscal policy is a social policy, because debt is always the poorest who pay it. For the rest, the Government's action on State investment is far from insignificant, as you imply. Of course, the Government had to make choices because of a difficult economic and social situation. However, there can be no doubt about his willingness to re-establish the link between all territories and all citizens. The demand for proximity to public services has been heard from the outset and it is not necessary to let the French think that, because the presence of public services is being reorganized, they are being sought out. This is exactly the opposite, with the setting up and amplification of the 2000 France service houses, by 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u20	Partly paid by the communities!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u21	They will have an immediate and visible effect on our fellow citizens, who will find in these places the human and concrete presence they expect. As far as public services are concerned, many, of course, remain to be done and many construction sites are open. You call on the Government to take immediate action for the emergency services of hospitals. This is a good thing, and the Government has released €70 million as initial support measures for the personnel concerned. Of course, this is just the beginning. We know that health has been one of the major themes of the great debate and we are measuring the effort that will have to be made to achieve the ambition of health for all. Much has already been done by Minister Agnès Buzyn, whose will is to be welcomed, but whose action concerns a much broader area than the issue of emergencies alone. Here again, the Socialist and related group demonstrates great opportunism and burns fire by referring only to this subject, when the presidential majority, on the whole, tries to remedy a complex and multidimensional situation. What does the Socialist Party have to answer to the strike agents of the hospital centres of Bourges and Vierzon? Their emergencies no longer work, so that one helps one another until exhaustion. This situation is not new: it comes from far away, because nothing had been done. We are acting, with the establishment of a national mission to improve the functioning of emergencies, entrusted to Thomas Mesnier: it will soon make concrete proposals which will have to be implemented quickly. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] In terms of education, too, the work is immense. But the one made by Minister Jean-Michel Blanquer is, from our point of view, exemplary. His approach and philosophy seem to us to correspond exactly to the needs of our children. Again, the means are put at the disposal of the most disadvantaged publics and territories, with the remarkable results of the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1 into a priority education network, REP and REP+. The effects will be felt in the long term and I have no doubt that they can be spectacular. The progress of CP students, who are sometimes four to five months ahead of the usual programs, is already to be seen thanks to the tremendous work done by the teachers. The Socialist and Related Group also calls for the abandonment of the reform of the public service, on the pretext that it would call into question its founding principles. This is the squared demonstration that, in the end, this motion for a resolution is intended only for themselves, because not reforming would be precisely the sign of a failed State. It was with him that the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister wanted to break up. The public service needs to be modernized to adapt to the opportunities of our century. The question of aided contracts has, on the other hand, shaken many people. The reduction in the number of these contracts was, I believe, the condition for the actors to gradually reorganise themselves and build their actions on a more solid basis. In the short term, while the effect on employment is important, we also know that these contracts are absolutely not the guarantee of lasting integration into the world of work. Only 12 per cent of those assisted were able to find a stable job. Other forms of support for associative action are emerging, which the Democratic Movement supports. Among them are the universal national service, which...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u22	It's not funded!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u23	...will be a great place to raise awareness of the involvement of young people and citizens: it is currently taking place for the first time. Last point I will address here: cultural ambition at the service of all. The Socialist Group regrets that the place of culture within the State has been reduced over the years. However, the opposite has happened: not only has the action of the state made it possible to solidify the existing one, but the state develops in addition to new actions such as the Pass culture or the Micro-folies, in order to promote access to works for all the public. This policy is supported budgetaryly by a continuous increase in appropriations, increased for 2018 to 2.91 billion euros, compared to 2.55 billion in 2014, when the Socialist Party was in power. All these actions and many others bear witness to this: the presidential majority is fully aware of the imperatives that the State must tackle. On the contrary, its action, far from negligible, is directed towards the territories and sectors most in need. This movement, we must continue to amplify it, because it is the condition for the success of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u24	Everything is for the best in the best possible worlds!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u25	The worst thing at this time would be to follow the example of previous governments and always postpone everything. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] For all these reasons, the Democratic and Related Movement Group will not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u26	That's a measured intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u27	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u28	Induced by the tabling of a motion for a resolution by the Socialist and Related Group, this debate on the state's backwardness is timely. The yellow vest crisis, which crossed the country from autumn to spring, has brought to light the need for public action in a large part of the population. And this concerns first and foremost the action of the State. Local authorities and elected representatives are willing and self-sacrifice to exercise their prerogatives. Sometimes they even make up for the shortcomings of the state, but it must be noted that they may feel abandoned. As a result, they carry out the tasks that the State assumed in the past, except that they do not necessarily have the means to do so. Today we are witnessing a disengagement of the State: in our territories, the closures of the treasury are in addition to those of the post offices that we have known before, and contribute to the devitalization of the towns and the loss of paid employment. There is the same disengagement of the State in cultural, economic or social public policies. This could be welcomed by the decentralisers who see it as a sign that local authorities will be able to efficiently implement the skills that local elected officials are best able to exercise. It is without counting on this selfish inclination of the state, which is disengaged without compensating for its absence from the communities. Indeed, the State uses them to save money. This isn't the first time. This has already happened under the previous majority. The current government makes the law with the help of its majority, and then applies it with the help of its central or deconcentrated administration, but at no time does it grant fiscal autonomy or regulatory adaptation to the local authorities. Again, deconcentration and decentralization are confused. The Liberties and Territories Group therefore shares the alarming statement made in the motion for a resolution. On several occasions, during the examination of various texts, such as the reform of the justice system, the bill for the transformation of the civil service, the PACTE law – an action plan for the growth and transformation of enterprises – or the mobility law, he expressed his concerns about the weakening of the state and its disengagement from the territories. The various amendments that we have tabled on these texts have invited the Government to revive the presence of the public authorities, both within the framework of the jurisdiction of the Republic and within the territories, by giving greater confidence to the local elected representatives. The Republic must be more flexible and clearly allow differentiation, experimentation, regulatory autonomy and even legislative autonomy for territories with special status, such as Corsica or overseas. In Brittany, we would be prepared to ask for the same prerogatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u29	Tax and Breton laws!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u30	According to our group, the state must refocus on its sovereign missions. It must be a strategist state that ensures that communities fully exercise their powers and implement equalization between rich and poor communities. To those who think that such a policy can only lead to more liberalism, I would remind you that in Scotland higher education is still free, while it is paying in England. This means that Scots take advantage of their status to pursue a more social policy than the English. There is a similar trend in the health system. The situation in Scotland and Wales is much better, but the investment of these communities is higher than that of England, where liberal policies have long been pursued.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u31	It's a monarchy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u32	We see this: the choices of local elected representatives are not necessarily those of the state, which sometimes benefits all citizens. That seems important to me. There is a pact between voters and rulers. The difficulties of our country can be explained by the fact that local elected officials see Parliament reduce their staffing every year and pass laws – especially on poverty – without asking for the opinion of the departments, thus ignoring one of their main prerogatives. Similarly, in the territories of industry, Parliament has not consulted with the regions. I recall that the state must not only be a strategist, but must work in synergy with communities. In our view, it must focus on the legitimate missions, and leave local public action to local elected officials. Unfortunately, the motion for a resolution does not raise the question of the redistribution of powers between the State and local and regional authorities, nor does it raise the question of the need to rethink relations between the State and local and regional authorities, which are indispensable prerequisites for any effective revival of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u33	Large construction site!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u34	Nor does the text address Corsican issues, in particular attempts to control the state over the prerogatives of the Corsican Assembly. One of the last illustrations is the intervention of the sub-prefect of Sartène, who asked the community of communes South Corsica to withdraw its application for the long-term unemployed territory approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u35	On what right?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u36	This is a paradox. Moreover, this point deserves to be clarified, as it embodies the problem that we are currently facing with the state: the association Territories Zero Long-Term Unemployed, as well as ATD Quart Monde were demonstrating today in the vicinity of the National Assembly. Their aim is to see the adoption of this well-known second law, which would allow the development of experiments aimed at bringing the long-term unemployed into the labour market in a non-competitive sector. This demonstrates that, in the territories, elected officials and civil society are mobilizing to bring some of their fellow citizens out of precariousness. It is the synergies developed from the territories that make it possible to find solutions within the employment or living areas; The role of the State must be to support local elected officials in this process. For the time being, however, the Government is not taking a proactive approach to this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to make public action more effective and to give our officials the means to carry out their missions in good conditions, France must change its paradigm. This change must be preceded by a moratorium on the closure of public services and a state of affairs to allow for a deconcentration tailored to the needs of the territories. Our group had tabled amendments to this effect during the review of the Public Service Transformation Bill. We regret that the motion for a resolution does not call for this moratorium or a state of affairs on public services in the territories. The revival of the State cannot dispense with walking on two legs, relying both on a deconcentration respectful of the territories and on a shock of decentralization, to enable the territories to express their full potential. Our group conveyed its vision and proposals to the President of the Republic by responding to the thirty-two questions he posed in the context of the major national debate. We also unveiled our plan to revive the state in a report revealing fifty proposals that we presented in Corsica last May. It is essential to stop the process of re-centralisation that has been taking place for several months and to give the territories the means to live and act as closely as possible to the expectations of our fellow citizens. This means that there is a need to review the network of public services in the territories. If digital is a way to put the state back at the heart of the territories, it cannot be alpha and omega. Indeed, there are several digital divides, a territorial divide linked to access difficulties and a divide in usage which leads to digital discrimination and precariousness. For several months now, our group has been calling on the Government to adopt a genuine "Girondin Pact" which would confer broad autonomy on local and regional authorities, fully implement the principle of subsidiarity and give them more regulatory power, even giving legislative autonomy to the communities that request it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u37	Nothing to do with the Girondins!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u38	Unfortunately, the girondine promise of the President of the Republic has remained a dead letter for two years. Yet our country is full of its diversity. It therefore seems logical and responsible to allow communities to move forward at the pace appropriate to their specificities and in the direction conducive to their development and development. The aim is to give local and regional authorities the opportunity to organise themselves as their territorial realities dictate, a fortiori in the overseas departments and territories. We regret that the motion for a resolution does not address the angle of decentralization and does not envisage the need to give elected representatives the means to engage and act. The revival of the State, and correlatively of the territories, also requires local elected representatives. They cannot be exempted from giving them more means of action. We must stop locking them in expensive and time-consuming schemes. They are generally able to adapt, sometimes with low means, provided that the regulations allow them to do so, which is not always the case. We must trust local elected officials, give them end-to-end control of their means of action, i.e. the definition of their competence and their finances, and let them have this famous regulatory power. The Government must understand that the revival of the State is inseparable from a revival of the means of action of local elected representatives through the triptych: decision, realization, financing. Our group will abstain from the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u39	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u40	"A shareholder who destroys a business is like a kid who breaks his toy, you have to let them do it. It's called liberalism. This maxim comes out of the Ministry of Economy. It could summarize the industrial policy of the Government, which is rather a non-political one. This maxim, I heard in Gerzat, near Clermont-Ferrand, on March 27 of this year, in Luxfer. Since 1939, the company has been producing high-pressure canisters, meaning all the oxygen-containing bottles seen in hospitals or fire trucks. Until then, these were made in France. As the company is now owned by an Anglo-Saxon fund, a transition manager decided, in the face of alleged more aggressive competition, to close everything to relocate production to low-cost countries. We're talking about competition, but in 2018, Luxfer made $25 million in profit, an increase of 50% over the previous year, when Gerzat's website recorded 9% profitability, 2 million profit, and its order book was full. A know-how of eighty years old and unique in Europe will disappear, sacrificed on the altar of shareholders. What does it matter? Finance obliges, 136 employees would be left on the tile. What did they do? They proposed a counter-project validated by the experts. They went on their own to look for buyers, including a Chinese buyer. But their initiative was swept away by the shareholder, who prefers the policy of burned land. Let nothing push back – especially not a competitor! Their fate settled the day I passed. The negotiations ended the same morning, with 47,000 euros of supra-legal compensation and the payment of the four months of strike. But from now on, French firefighters and hospitals will either buy English or American or supply South-East Asia. What support did the employees find with the Ministry of Economy during this arm of arms? None. On the contrary, in Bercy, the interdepartmental delegate for restructuring explained to them his vision of the economy with frankness. I repeat: "A shareholder who destroys a company is like a child who breaks his toy, you have to let them do it. It's called liberalism." As if he were replacing the employers and the police, he even warned the employees against their attitude: we will not tolerate, he said, any excesses. The excesses of finance have been amply tolerated. We could mention Ford, Ascoval, General Electric, in short, all the major industrial issues, but they weren't on my way. It continued to Longvic, near Dijon, where I met Imad, an employee of FranceEole. Ecology, he told me, is in the air of time, but no one comes to see us: we are abandoned. As its name suggests, FranceEole works in the wind turbine industry, and manufactures steel wind turbine masts. It is the only French company to do so. The company, its employees and its director told me, has undergone three judicial remedies, and yet we have never seen anyone move. Three judicial remedies in five years: slow industrial agony punctuated, as often, with bursts of hope. In September 2017, the plant was bought by Nimbus, a Dutch investment fund that promises to be a success: all jobs preserved and, above all, investments. The fatality then seems to stop: the French windian did not say his last word! In fact, only 300,000 euros will be invested in the company, i.e. the price of a single mast segment, 1% of the 2016 turnover. "This allowed us to last 18 months," said the director. In the face of Spanish and Portuguese competition or that of countries in South-East Asia, which manage to produce between 10 and 15% cheaper, FranceEole takes markets, but does so at a loss. As a result, the workers are technically unemployed and, at this very moment – I am warning you about this – the factory is on the verge of closure. Yet it seems to me that it is possible to put in place a protectionism of the nascent industries: a baby abandoned on a sidewalk will die of cold and hunger if it is not taken care of, and a lion abandoned in the jungle will be devoured there. The same applies to an emerging industry. If, like the French wind turbine, it is not protected, it is condemned to perish, to barely survive or to die. From the very top of this rostrum, the Prime Minister pleaded for a major plan in favour of wind energy in France, and there was talk of a doubling – from 8,000 to 16,000 – of the number of installations in ten years. It goes, I think, through the construction of a French industry in the sector: this is what a real industrial policy could be. This protectionism of the nascent industries, the industry demands it: it would be for a strategist State to choose a few industrial groups, either to invest in them massively or to enable their development. I then went home, where, in the aftermath of the European elections, we suddenly learned of WN's judicial recovery, Whirlpool's successor. The President of the Republic, it is recalled, had visited the Whirlpool site in Amiens, where, in front of almost everything that the country has cameras, microphones and pens, and in front of all the authorities, from the regional president to the prefect, he had praised the takeover of this factory and its 180 employees by the company of Mr Decayeux, in a "start-up" spirit. A "start-up" spirit for a factory of 180 employees, you will tell me, it seemed a bit contradictory; But the miracle was such to Amiens and to myself that we wanted to believe it. The bet, however, was uncertain: the production of refrigerated lockers, followed by electronic mailboxes, motors for cars without permits, was first mentioned, in short, things that called for increased vigilance on the part of the ministry concerned and the State. For this project, WN was entrusted €2.5 million by the State, which on this occasion did not play its part as a shareholder. What would any shareholder fund have done in such a case? He would have claimed a seat on the board of directors! It would have required monthly activity reports to analyse the market situation and to be aware of the products that are developing there or not. Of all this, there was nothing. Six months ago, however, we launched an alert with the Whirlpool trade unions: the employees, we say, do nothing, they "slip," and that is worrying. We have received no response from either the Elysée, the Ministry of Labour, or the Prefecture. Not even a courtesy answer. A new prefect, finally, took the case with his arm-to-body: we then pressed the brake, but we had already entered the wall. Why? How can we understand that the State, which had put money in the shop and thereby guaranteed the project with the employees, did not play its part? The cause, I believe, is in the incompetence of the services: it is not because a department has thousands of over-graduated public servants that they know the field and come to it. On their part, I think, there is a kind of indifference to the fate of the employees concerned, once the cameras, the microphones and the media are gone. More deeply, there is the idea at home that no interference should be allowed in the business of the company: there should be only one master on board. For me, on the contrary, the company is too serious a thing to be left to entrepreneurs alone. They are nevertheless the captains of the ship, we agree, but they must not be the only masters on board. In this case, it was the responsibility of the State to invest in the enterprise. Another symbol of this attitude is offered to us by New Look, of which 464 employees are in the process of being dismissed. The Minister of Economy came to tell them: "Trust your boss! However, it liquidated the Belgian branch in a snap of fingers at a works council that was not planned; New Look siphoned the French branch, pumped the cash and brought the money back to the parent company, domiciled in Malta, all in the most total opacity, via a succession of holding companies installed in tax havens. Despite all this, therefore, the message of the Ministry of Economy to employees is: "Trust your boss! » [[Ms Valérie Rabault, Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne and Mr Sébastien Jumel applaud]] The state, in my view, has not played its role, not only as a shareholder, but also as a protector, a shield against the blows of globalized finance, capital against employees – in this case, by a South African fund against New Look employees. These employees, he left them alone, in disarray and, as they all say, to abandonment. In the face of this, a genuine industrial policy is necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u42	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u43	I ask your indulgence, Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, because I am replacing Gabriel Serville on my feet. So I will try to improvise two or three ideas on the subject. Having thought for a few minutes, I wondered about his causes. If the state is out of order, isn't it because of its renunciation? For the industrial state, of which François Ruffin has just spoken, the thing is blatant. The state has given up all the strategic tools that allow it to take on the bedside of industries, SMEs, IMPs, our structured sectors. He renounced the instruments of capital sovereignty that he had at his disposal. I will take a few examples. Predatory, LBO-type investment funds – raised buy-out – among other things, are taking foot in all of our florets. The glass pole of the Bresle Valley, Secretary of State, was the victim of this predation. If we do not take care of it, it could siphon the know-how and speed up relocations. Fisheries, the subject of the parliamentary mission that I preside over, is also the victim of a loss of capital sovereignty. The Dutch buy the fisheries and, if we do not take care of them, the fishing will follow the model which has caused so much damage to agriculture and the environment, the model which has produced mastodont farms, out of control. In the face of the threats to these florets, which make the identity of our territories, irrigate them in jobs and are the sap of their development through the economic activities they create there, the state remains spectator. We have moved from the Minister of Productive Recovery, with his sailors and chin blows, to a Minister of Productive Renunciation. The latest industrial announcements, unfortunately, bear witness to this. The marriages that were presented to us as avatars of the Airbus model, Airbus naval, Airbus of the train, Airbus of the automobile, ended up, at the end of the day, by the application of the same logic, that of the shareholders who make low hand on our flowers: we first remove the duplicates, then we relocate the industrial sites because we always find labor less expensive elsewhere. In the face of this, the state is not, strictly speaking, broken: the ministers watch the trains pass, they look at the crushed territories and the damaged lives. [[Smile]] Elections have been held recently, and it is in our interest, I believe, not to understand the results in just 24 hours. The territories that cry out their anger, cry out their despair, do not do so out of pleasure or because all the angry ones have become fachos: they do so on the observation of a reality, that of a State that organized the retreat of the Republic everywhere and for all. The removal of community-based public services, your new approach to public services that only accelerates their move from the territories, the fact that, depending on where one lives, where one is born, one does not have access to the same training, to the same school, to the same medicine, all this also illustrates the broken state, the abandoning state, the state that does not care to make the sun shine for everyone. I want the sun, it's called a beautiful film that I recommend. With Macron, the sun does not shine in the same way for everyone: some territories are more shaded than others, and the rain falls more dry. In industrial matters, in terms of economic activity, clusters of competitiveness and innovation, in short, in everything that structures the residential economy, which some dream of being replaced by the real economy, there is a risk, on which I call your attention, to concentrate all the responses of the state in metropolises catch-all, in territories where people are well, while refraining from worrying about those who are less well. Yet these people make France, its diversity and its wealth. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] In a few words, Mr. Secretary of State, I am inspired by this title of "a broken state." In a breakdown, the state is not for technical reasons, nor because it would be in pain: it is because of the lack of political will on the part of the liberals that you are, to take control of the country's conduct and to ensure a redistribution of wealth, to ensure social equality and territorial equality that guide the choices of the strategist state, so that, ultimately, the Republic remains one and indivisible, present everywhere and for all. It would be the opposite of the failed state, of that state that you insist on not repairing for the benefit of all.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u44	Mr Xavier Roseren has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u45	With the proposal for a resolution by the Socialist and Related Group, we are invited to discuss the role of the State and the presence of public services in the territory. According to this text, public policies carried out over the past two years would be counterproductive, with the State absent; worse, "out of order." A revival would therefore be necessary, and the motion for a resolution would be the solution. I must confess, ladies and gentlemen, that when I read this resolution, I was somewhat disconcerted. We are described as a failed state, or even a backward state; However, the facts prove the opposite: the unemployment rate is the lowest we have seen in ten years; the investment has been at the highest for twelve years...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u46	This is not the result of the action of the State, but of those of the companies!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u47	...and we've had a record of attractiveness in our country. I am not saying that everything is perfect, that the objectives are achieved and that we must be content with these results.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u48	You're not saying that, are you sure?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u49	The latest crises, on the contrary, show us the full scope of the work that is still waiting for us to meet the many challenges facing us. The Prime Minister, in his policy speech last week, has already provided elements for a response.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u50	Not to mention revenue, however – he only talked about spending!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u51	Since this motion for a resolution refers to public services, I would like to point out that, among the measures announced by the Prime Minister, there is a "France services house" in each canton by 2022. Not only will these houses ensure a physical presence of proximity throughout the territory, but they will also provide a one-stop shop for any citizen who no longer has to wonder what service to contact. This simplification objective is not new and is even one of the priorities of the Government and the majority. The law for a State at the service of a trustworthy society is a perfect illustration of this. With this text, the State and its administrations are no longer only there to control and sanction but also and above all to accompany and advise. In concrete terms, this is manifested in particular by the right to error: individuals and companies are deemed to have acted in good faith in the event of an error. It will now be up to the administration to prove otherwise in order to impose a sanction. This change in culture is manifested by the recent launch of the website oups.gouv.fr, through which the administration accompanies the admins by identifying the main errors they can face and provides information to avoid and correct them. The role of the State and its administrations is therefore being rethought and simplified to ensure better performance of services rendered to the public. It is certainly this logic of performance and efficiency that differentiates us: where, since 2012, you have closed more than 700 cash points throughout the territory, without any consultation or logic, we have opted for a concerted reform taking into account the realities and needs of the citizens. Thus, by 2022, the number of public finance outreach facilities will increase by 30 per cent throughout the country. This transformation is the result of a global reflection offering a long-term vision on the network of the Directorate-General for Public Finance, DGFIP: what missions, to meet what needs, for what efficiency and thanks to what improvements? This is all the work carried out by the Government and the majority within the framework of the Public Action Programme 2022. We want to modernise our public services to meet the needs of all in a sense of efficiency and proximity. The aim is not to give the blind a plane, in a pure and single fiscal logic, but to rethink our administration and our public services of tomorrow. It is a global reflection whose performance and rationalization are the main words. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, I do not agree at all with the statement made in this motion for a resolution. Our State is not in a state of breakdown; On the contrary, it finally restarts! After years of immobilization and hastily taken decisions without an overall vision and courage, we are finally building the future and bringing our State, our administrations and our public services into the twenty-first century.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u52	[[Smile]] Good thing you're here! You are the saviors of France!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u53	[[Smile]] "I put my hope in the Lord, I am sure of his word! »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u54	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u55	The Socialist Group has chosen to table a resolution on state breakdowns and to propose ways of putting it back in motion, if you may, but in action. I thank his president for that. I share, Madam President, a number of your observations: public services are shrinking; the State withdraws from certain territories; The state of our health system and its meshing are real concerns. In addition, the French have largely questioned the organization and performance of our public policies in recent months; Some of them have shown enormous distrust of our institutions and their functioning. In line with their criticisms, most often, we find first of all what is perceived as a confiscatory tax, which deprives those who work hard to close their end months of the fair reward of their efforts, but also the inequality felt, depending on whether one lives in a large metropolis or in a less densely populated territory, and therefore abandoned, and finally the growing concerns about our solidarity and the sustainability of a system in which the periods of fragility that everyone is going through must be cushioned by mechanisms enabling them to face them. Our citizens also feel an increasing anxiety about global, climatic and environmental issues; They need answers adapted to their lifestyles as well as to the preservation of the planet. The answers given, or being developed, to the expression of these different fears are often perceived as "macro"; It is therefore difficult for our fellow citizens to discern the possible concrete consequences on their daily lives. For several months, various work has been under way in the National Assembly on the efficiency of public policies, the role and tasks of the State, and its articulation with other levels of responsibility. Our discussion offers me the opportunity to give you a few complementary observations, shared by others on various benches of this Assembly, notably thanks to the work of the delegation to local authorities and the decentralization of which I am one of the vice-presidents, but also thanks to the various fact-finding missions of the Committee on Laws, some of which are still being drafted. The first of these findings is that the state has long abandoned its role as a strategist state...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u56	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u57	... particularly in the area of spatial planning, which has created a strong sense of abandonment in many places that now consider themselves to be second zone territories – where the lines of communication are not up to expectations, where the digital is waiting too long, where the mobile is not passing correctly, but also where the police and gendarmes are insufficient and where insecurity is gaining, where the hospital is withdrawing and where people are afraid of the health accident. The second of these findings is that this impotence of the state has also gangened other fields, such as the social one, with the tenacious feeling that the sole criterion of arbitration is financial and budgetary, and that decisions are made only on the basis of the sacrosanct obsession to "reduce public spending". What the French are experiencing today in the face of the indispensable reforms of pensions or unemployment compensation is sadly indicative of this state of affairs. The third of these findings is that the State is also perceived to be absent from the major global policies that it is the only one to be able to pursue. I am referring here to the environmental challenge whose implementation has been abandoned to agencies – regional health agencies, regional environmental, planning and housing directorates, Agence française pour la biodiversité, water agencies – which the French do not connect with the state because they conduct their own policies at their own pace according to their own constraints. There's no readability anymore. Beyond these findings, I would like to outline a few recommendations here. First of all, in a period of profound changes in our society, and also in our Republic, there is no question of campaigning for the status quo or the reversal. Don't try to go to more states; let's try to go to "better state". One could imagine a State that would draw inspiration from the realities of the ground by opening the way for consideration of territorial particularities. It is about France's ability to continue to develop its territory so that people can live everywhere. Secondly, the territories must be provided with the means corresponding to the projects they have for their inhabitants, rather than forcing the whole country to enter a single mould. Finally, the State could propose to the territories a contract of agreement, in order to achieve these objectives, by putting all the actors around the table. This is where a new stage of decentralization could be nestled. This movement, which could begin quickly, must be accompanied by another, deconcentration. Why would you want to repatriate to Paris or to the major regional metropolises all the public decision-making centres? Why continue the movement of gradual undressing of deconcentrated state services, especially in the departments? On the other hand, we propose to imagine a state that is incarnated as close as possible to the French, thanks in particular to prefects of departments and services with strengthened powers. The state would become an advisory state rather than a sanction state. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In addition to improving the effectiveness of public policies, I deeply believe that these shifts would give the French a chance to give consideration to their institutions, and thus to fight against the advent of extreme political forces which wish to weaken our institutions and therefore our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u58	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u59	With this motion for a resolution, our fellow members of the Socialist Group intend to demonstrate that the policy pursued by the Government in a large number of areas consists of an unprecedented setback of the State. The explanatory memorandum thus multiplies the examples of reforms undertaken, and addresses them to all the same criticism: the dismantling of structures and capacities for public intervention. Underlyingly or sometimes explicitly, the government's policy to liberalize and privatize all or part of the State's missions or services considered to remain in the mainstream of public intervention, particularly in the name of the fundamental principles of public service, namely equality, continuity and adaptability. Building on this very Keynesian conception of the State, our Socialist Group colleagues ask the Government to review its copy, for example by abandoning the reform of the civil service or the privatization of the Aéroports de Paris group, by providing additional budget appropriations for emergency services in hospitals or by increasing the volume of aided contracts. They call for a strong, protective State through the exercise of its regal missions, a redistributor in social matters, a strategist and an interventionist in economic matters, a decentralizer and a guarantor of local freedoms. This return to the state, or rather the return of the state, is justified by the ecological, democratic, social and economic emergencies highlighted in the motion for a resolution. In this respect, our colleagues in the Socialist Group echo the expectations expressed by many of our fellow citizens of more assertive, close and effective public services. These aspirations emerged on the occasion of the yellow vest crisis, as well as in the context of the major debate. Although they have been strongly expressed, they have sometimes also proved to be contradictory: at the same time that the French in the vast majority demand more state, they demand less taxes; However, taxes are the necessary and indispensable condition for the financing of the public service. More generally, the debate on the place, role, missions and scope of the State is an old and constant debate in France; It structures our democratic life. It is just as much the fruit of the history of our country, in which the state preceded the nation, as of circumstances and necessities. At the end of the Second World War, when the country and our economy were to be rebuilt, the interventionism of the state was a consensus, as shown in the programme of the National Council of Resistance. At other times, for example in the mid-1980s, this interventionism was mostly called into question, as was the case in other major Western democracies, a greater aspiration for individualism and a certain distrust of the effectiveness of public intervention. A wind of freedom blew, which brought down the wall that separated liberal democracy and collectivism erected as a state religion. At the end of the 1990s, a socialist government led by Lionel Jospin, unsuspectable of ideological affiliations with the right, proceeded to the largest number of privatizations previously known under the Fifth Republic. This debate on the place of the state in France cannot, however, be reduced to a caricature between states and liberals, between collectivists and individualists, between the supporters of the revival and those of laissez-faire, between left and right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u60	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u61	The separation between each other and the many nuances that develop there have long passed through the different currents of thought. For Members of the IDU and Independent Group, the question that arises, and especially the answers that we have to give to our fellow citizens, is not more or less state, but it is "better state". The fundamental principle of adaptability of the public service precludes it from being fixed in its conception, its missions, its action or its organisations, the objective being the collective satisfaction of the needs of our fellow citizens, progress and national cohesion. Thus, to take only this example of the public service, we diverge on several points with the analysis developed by our socialist colleagues. Indeed, we do not share the idea that the use of the contract would be "the antithesis of the career public service and the logic of forward-looking management of jobs and skills." On the contrary, we consider that there are trades within the three public offices which should be exempted from the statute in order to enable public employers to recruit better, to pay better and to offer better career prospects than what is now required by the statutory framework. By "better state", we also intend to deal with the issue of public service financing, which comes from such a heavy tax burden that our fellow citizens, as we can see, bear it less and less. At the same time as they ask us for more proximity and efficiency of the public service, they ask us that this public service cost less. In this, our fellow citizens remind us of an emergency other than the ecological emergency, which rightly dominates our debates: that of debt. If we are to bequeath our children a living planet, we must also bequeath them sustainable public finances. Proposing an emergency aid plan of between EUR 500 and 600 million is highly commendable, given that these funds translate into human resources that are essential to overcome the over-activity of emergency services in the face of the shortage of city doctors. However, this financial effort cannot consist of a single increase in the government deficit and therefore in the debt. However, from this requirement for the future, the text does not say a word, a text which sins by two excesses: on the one hand, the systematism of the criticism of the Government as to the supposed orientations of its reforms which would lead to ever less State and, on the other hand, a worrying propensity to increase the deficit and the public debt which underlie the proposals put forward. [[Ms. Lise Magnier applauds]] For these reasons, IDU and Independent Members will not vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u62	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u63	On the occasion of the second "Spring of Evaluation", the members of the Socialist and Related Group chose to address the question of the place and role of the state in public policies – in particular those that the majority have implemented over the past two years. Placing this issue at the heart of our debate is not an ideological approach that would oppose the sphere of public power to the private sphere. Let us be clear: both are necessary. Placing this question at the heart of our debate answers many questions raised during the great debate and the need for a strong architecture to ensure the cohesion of our country, that is, a strong State. A strong State is a protective State that fully exercises its sovereign missions. A strong State is a State of solidarity that ensures redistribution between all its citizens and all its territories. A strong State is a strategist State that empowers itself to respond to the challenges of the present and anticipates future changes. Finally, a strong State is a decentralized State that guarantees democratic expressions and local initiatives. Now, Mr. Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, we believe that the policies that have been in place for the past two years are weakening this strong state. To illustrate this analysis, I will cite a few examples. A strong state has the concern of all its territories and, to look at them more closely, the bills you have introduced for the past two years tend to forget the overseas territories. We denounce it, and you may feel that it is a partisan approach, but the Court of Auditors, which is more likely to ask for cuts in public spending, is also concerned, which should alert you. Thus, in 2018, your government reduced the appropriations allocated to the Overseas Territories by EUR 177 million, compared to what was voted for: the Court of Auditors calls this budget under-consumption "unpublished". The abolition of personalized housing subsidies – APL – accession contributed to the "several coup d'arrêt", to quote the Court, again, from the production of housing in overseas countries, which increased from 476 housing units in 2017 to 94 in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u64	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u65	The abolition of this aid also led to a collapse of aid for the improvement of private housing in Guadeloupe and La Réunion. Second example: a strong State is a state capable of defending its interests – François Ruffin has just stressed this – because they are those of all the French. Here too, 2018 has been marked by a decline. In the absence of sufficient legal expertise in corporate tax matters, the state had to let go – forgive the expression – €2.5 billion in 2018, which is still one third of the budget of the Ministry of Justice. Here too, the reference to this amount in the Committee on Finance has given rise to a certain feeling among our colleagues, including those of the majority. A strong State, third example, is one that has an ambition for culture. I will quote François Mitterrand, who stated, at the inauguration of the Louvre pyramid: "I am one of those who deeply believe [...] that a cultural policy is at the root of any other policy, that the French must find themselves in their history, in their art, their past, so that they know better how to have the ambition of their future. "Better to have the ambition of its future"... here too, we can make several observations about 2018 from the budget documents that you have given us. Do museums, especially those managed by the State, have a sufficient opening rate? In 2018, according to Indicator 2.1 of Program 175, it continues to decline. For the live show, which takes place in publicly funded venues, there were 500,000 fewer spectators than in 2017 and 500,000 fewer than the target set in finance law. Last observation: for the plastic arts, the share of acquisition credits and orders paid directly to artists in the budgets of the regional funds of contemporary art – FRAC – and the national centre of the plastic arts – CNAP – has fallen compared to 2016 and 2017. It was 6% in 2018, compared to 9% in 2012. Fourth example: a strong State is one that leaves no one at the side of the road, in terms of employment, whether the person has a qualification or not. I know we have a difference with you about the jobs we help. The number of job creations supported increased from 460,000 in 2016 to 128000 career paths skills – PEC – in 2018 and 100,000 planned in 2019. You will agree, however, that this decline is dizzying. In addition, new jobs helped, the CECs, supposed to revolutionize assisted jobs, have not revolutionized anything since you set a target of 200,000 creations for 2018; However, this figure was only 128000, simply because the device is too complicated. By abolishing these aided contracts on the pretext that they would be false jobs, the Government has made real unemployed people. Fifth and final example: a state that remains too spectator in the face of the emergency situation. I have heard some of our colleagues say that these difficulties are not new – no one will deny it. In 25 years, the number of emergencies has tripled from 7 million in 1990 to 21 million in 2016, according to the latest figures from the Court of Auditors in Volume II of its 2019 public report. We will all agree that this development cannot be explained simply by the increase in the French population, which has increased by 15% over the same period, nor by its ageing. Other phenomena are taking place, "too little analysed" as the Court of Auditors pointed out in a report on the application of social security financing laws. While the Court noted that a certain effort had been made during the last quinquennium to better analyse the reasons which had led to an explosion in the number of passages, and that efforts had been made to have a better organization, while it advocated a reduction in public expenditure, it wrote that the number of medical emergency doctors should be increased by 20% in full-time equivalents. This type of recommendation is quite rare: it should be followed immediately. This phenomenon is new and should be taken very seriously into account by the Government, which, when translated into ringing and stumbling euros, leads to an increase of EUR 500 million in the appropriations granted to emergencies. Finally, I will refer to this state that has been forced to reduce the missions of its administrations and I will take an example that is close to my heart, that of customs, to which, two months ago, I visited Saint-Malo – which is not in my constituency. Customs has some 17,000 agents who carry out a wide range of tasks, more than 400 today, in a variety of areas, such as supporting the economic competitiveness of businesses, protecting and combating fraud and collecting customs taxes. These are essential tasks. More than any other administration, the French customs authorities and their customs officers must and know how to adapt to the situation: in the event of terrorist risks, of changes in trade, of a health crisis or of the Brexit which is about to take place. The results show that the French customs service has been able to modernize. In 2004, as part of customs clearance, if the average time to immobilize the goods was thirteen minutes, it is now just over two minutes. The user satisfaction rate is 85 per cent. Finally, per 100 euros of customs taxes collected, the cost of collection is only 39 cents – one of the lowest in the world. According to the 2018 Annual Performance Report, the customs administration has met and exceeded eight of its twelve objectives. However, some customs missions are regularly called into question, either because the resources allocated to it are reduced or because they are outsourced. In some regions, border crossing missions have taken precedence over other missions that form the core of the customs profession, owing to a lack of sufficient staff. These means restrictions, combined with competition between customs, ultimately threaten the competitiveness of our companies. I do not go back to the Brexit, which is the subject of job creation, but, for example, to the number envisaged by the Netherlands. In his second policy statement, the Prime Minister stated that "the state that should reason in a long-term strategy has too often stuck in the short term." On this point, Mr Secretary of State, I agree with him; But I believe that this means correcting the policy that you have been pursuing for the past two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u66	On the whole of the motion for a resolution, I have a request for a public vote before the Socialist and Related Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Marie-Ange Magne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u67	According to the title of the motion for a resolution, the state would be "failed". The policy pursued by the Government and the majority, however, shows the opposite: the State is advancing, with the driving force behind it, the need to meet the real needs and expectations of our fellow citizens. It is about meeting today's major challenges and, at the same time, preparing for tomorrow. This state, which is advancing, we want to be agile, focused on the major issues of our time, which partly dictate the country's priorities; a state that adapts to our high-speed needs and lifestyles. The strong state is the one that makes it possible to live better from its work, that frees up work and entrepreneurship, that invents a new model of growth. At the same time, the strong State guarantees new protections for those who need them, gives all our children equal opportunities, and is committed to making the diversity of our culture accessible. First of all, we aim to modernise our public services while at the same time strengthening the proximity link with their users. Ensuring this presence and proximity of our public services throughout the country is our greatest concern. On the one hand, by 1 January 2020, 300 France service houses will be deployed throughout the territory. There will be one per township by the end of the quinquennium in order to structure our public services as close as possible to the land. These France service houses will bring together at least ten different public services. They will help to combat a sense of abandonment that our fellow citizens can feel in rural areas or in the priority neighbourhoods of the city. At the same time, a reorganisation of the DGFIP services has just been launched, in consultation with local elected representatives, with the aim of increasing the number of local reception facilities by 30% by 2022. On the other hand, the modernisation of our public services must make it possible to adapt to new uses. It is not a question of budgetary restrictions, but, on the contrary, of investing in digital transformation plans. The State's commitment to widespread quality mobile coverage by 2020, thanks to France's very high-speed plan, must make our public services more accessible in previously unequally served areas. Our goal is to act broadly towards an inclusive digital environment, and to combat "illectronism". The creation of a digital pass, the establishment of " Hubs France Connectée" or the training plan for digital carers go in this direction. We also want to support civil servants in the transformations of public action. Deeply committed to public service values, public officials mobilize daily for the security and cohesion of our country. In the face of the rapid development of their profession, the sense of their mission and commitment must now be strengthened. New expectations are emerging to move towards a more attractive and responsive public service, towards more diverse career paths and greater consideration of the quality of life at work. The necessary transformation of public action cannot be achieved without restoring sense and confidence to the 5.5 million agents who make the public service live every day. Today, it is important to strengthen the link between our public officials and the service of their country, and to implement an ambitious transformation of our public service. The draft law on the transformation of the civil service helps to strengthen the State's action. It promises a more strategic social dialogue, while respecting the guarantees of public officials. It develops the managerial levers for more responsive and effective public action. It simplifies and ensures the transparency and fairness of the management framework for public officials. It promotes mobility and supports the professional transitions of public officials between the civil service and the private sector. It strengthens professional equality in the public service. Finally, our will is to support the French in the changes in the economy and the transformation of our country. 2017 has seen the best performance in ten years, with 2.3% growth, 350,000 job creations, and a dynamic investment. 2018 was the year of the increase in purchasing power, with the removal of part of the housing tax and the reduction of contributions. The unemployment rate has been at its lowest level in ten years. This year, €10 billion of economic, fiscal and social measures will result in a net increase in purchasing power for the middle classes. Looking at changes in employment, wages supported by the wage challenge, capital income and the slowdown in inflation, the average increase will be €850 per household, the largest increase since 2007. The fall in the housing tax, the fall in social contributions, the activity premium and the challenge of overtime will give purchasing power to middle-class private employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u68	That's the Coué method! To repeat is to teach!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u69	Moreover, companies now have financial capacity with a historically high level of savings, plus the transformation of the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – into a reduction of charges of €20 billion. More than ever, the Government and our majority are acting...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u70	Advertising is prohibited in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u71	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... to strengthen the action of the State, with the ambition to accompany all French people in their lives and to create the conditions for an economic dynamism conducive to growth and employment. Far from breaking down, the state is well on its way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u72	Get up while you're there! Get up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u73	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u74	You will allow me to reply first to Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, because he began his speech by evoking dematerialization. This subject, which is at my heart, is quite symptomatic of the transformations that the State has to face, of its insufficiency in this field and, consequently, of the shortcomings that we still have to fill. Mr President, you referred to the report by the Defender of Rights on dematerialisation and inequalities in access to public services. In this report, the Defender of Rights says, broadly speaking, that this dematerialization was carried out too quickly, without taking into account the users.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u75	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u76	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u77	He's absolutely right. The dematerialization of public services and the digitization of approaches have been carried out fairly consistently by the various governments and administrations involved, with insufficient emphasis on the route of users and the quality of public services. We announce that we will gradually withdraw public services from your territories: the National Old Age Insurance Fund is leaving, La Poste fers...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u78	The DGFIP agency too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u79	She too! You are told that just go on the internet to access these services, but what happens if you don't have the Internet, you don't know how to use it, or even the site you were referred to doesn't work?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u80	Yes, it happens!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u81	We have to go to the prefecture, 100 kilometres from home, and it opens only eight to fifteen hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u82	It's almost a living!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u83	Under these conditions, it is normal for the French to consider that the account is not there. I am not going to describe the entire policy of reducing the digital divide that the Government is pursuing, but the challenge is to allow the French to connect, to train the 6 million of them on the Internet, and to ensure that the sites of dematerialization of administrative procedures are designed from the user, from all users – I am thinking in particular of the 20% of French people with disabilities. As Mrs. Valérie Rabault has suggested, whether it be health, territory or customs, the territorial, administrative and institutional organization of our country, the legacy of centuries of administration, especially of the post-war period, is affected by large population movements, such as those observed in rural areas, but also by uses. The fact is that there are more and more tax returns online, that the volume of mail is falling every year from 5 to 10 per cent, that the French are increasingly going to emergencies, and that rural desertification is leading to the retention of sometimes under-used health services, which are therefore under-critical, causing health problems. These phenomena, which are neither the result of the actions of the Government nor of any curse, constitute major societal trends to which the administration and the State have so far inadequately adapted. In essence, Ms. Valérie Rabault posed the problem of the transition. Indeed, we must both solve these problems, knowing that the solution does not involve public expenditure, but that we must take things to the root and give answers in terms of organisation, while accompanying the transition. It is true that the support of the transition is not exactly the same depending on whether you have 50 or 100 % of public debt. On this subject of the public debt report, honourable Member, we may not have the same approach – if I recall any discussions we have had in the past, that is not the case yesterday. Having said that, in one of the criticisms that are yours today, I note that François Hollande's quinquennium has not always been exemplary in this respect. The fact is that the budgetary constraint is real, everyone recognizes it, and that it is not the legacy of the Government's action, if I may say so. It comes from a little further in time. It is not due to the fact that the Government would remain in its arms, as we have announced extremely strong measures in favour of the territories. As far as health is concerned, I am thinking of the end of the numerus clausus, the development of multi-professional health homes, the freezing of the closure of community hospitals or the accelerated deployment of local health professional communities to recreate a health service as close as possible to the French. As far as the school is concerned, I am thinking of the efforts to supervise pupils: it is on the rise in all departments, especially in the fifty most rural departments with the doubling of 4700 classes of CP and CE1 at the beginning of 2018 in priority education networks, including in fragile rural areas. I am also thinking of the commitment of the President of the Republic not to close any schools without the agreement of the mayor of the commune by the end of the quinquennium. Measures also concern medium-sized cities, with 5 billion euros that the State, the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, the ANAH – National Housing Agency – and Action logement will spend five years revitalising the city centres of small and medium-sized cities. Finally, mention should be made of the creation of France service houses, and the national strategy for "third-places" implemented by Jacqueline Gourault, Minister for the Cohesion of Territories and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, and Julien Denormandie, Minister for the City and Housing. This element, quoted by many Members, responds to a basic but indispensable logic: to offer public services to everyone, close to home, in a simple way. Mr Ruffin and Mr Jumel referred to industrial policy. In my personal capacity, I know the subject quite well since, in another life, I was, for a year and a half, in charge of the factory of the future at Safran, but also, more simply, a master's officer for a year and a half, also at Safran, in the Gennevilliers factory, a historic place for training the cadres of Workers' Struggle. So I was able to come close enough to the subject. The issue of industrial policy is essentially a matter of employment and sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u84	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u85	Let us take the example of a technology that will become quite important in the industry in the years to come: artificial intelligence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u86	We would also like to hear about the more traditional industry!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u87	This rather esoteric term covers neither more nor less than the capacity of our traditional industries, our automotive industry, our aeronautical industry...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u88	That's it! That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u89	...to integrate technology in order to be able to fight on equal terms with its American or Chinese competitors. Looking at the figures that are severe, if not quite cruel, we find that the amounts invested in artificial intelligence by GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon – amount to 30 to 40 billion euros a year, and that the same amount is invested by the Chinese, while the investment of Europeans, all together, amounts, in 2016, to 4 to 5 billion euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u90	But what could the CICE and the research tax credit be used for?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u91	Behind this investment difference, there is simply our jobs and our sovereignty of tomorrow. No state, however, can invest, even if it is in surplus, between EUR 30 billion and EUR 40 billion per year. So it's not about doing business instead, but, if we want to keep our jobs and create them, if we don't want to get out of history – because I think the economic and technological stake is that – then we have to create the conditions for French and international private investors to choose France – the 30 to 40 billion euros invested in China and the United States are first of all private investment. This is what we do by creating favourable conditions, notably through capital taxation, property tax... It's starting to work. It has been said: this year, for the first time in ten years, France is the first destination of foreign investment in Europe – I note that digital is the first investment sector. Moreover, as Mr Roseren pointed out, investment has been at the highest level in 12 years. But this is not just investment for investment, since, as has been noted, industrial employment is on the rise in France for the first time in ten years. We have to see what lies behind technological investment: when we look at the figures in the United States, we find that one third of the net job creation in the last three or four years depends on it. This shows the importance of this debate. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] I don't want to be too long, but I end up with a personal anecdote. [[Mr. MounirMahjoubiapplaudit]] The first time I voted, in 2002, was for Jean-Pierre Chevènement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u92	Is that a confession?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u93	I made this choice because I had, as they say, "a certain idea of France", and a certain idea of what its sovereignty and the role of the State should be.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u94	Chirac has distributed L'Huma!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u95	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] A little less than twenty years later, for exactly the same reasons, I feel quite comfortable with the policy of this Government, and I will therefore be against the motion for a resolution that we are considering.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u96	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u97	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 56 Number of votes cast 49 Absolute majority 25 For adoption 8 Against 41
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u98	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u99	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u100	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of Mrs Cendra Motin's motion for a resolution on strengthening the management and evaluation of the State's workforce and wage bill (No 2013).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u101	Mrs Cendra Motin, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u102	The French demand for the proper use of public money continues to grow and, with it, the demand for national representation. Good use of public money should not only mean continuity or accessibility of public services; It is also, and above all, about their effectiveness, if not their efficiency. We want public services that are better integrated into our lives and our villages, but we don't want them at any cost. In short, we French citizens want "better public services" and less taxes! The challenge is great, but not insurmountable: first of all, it requires a high degree of transparency in the use of public resources so that citizens can know why and how their taxes are used; It then requires comprehensive, detailed monitoring and evaluation of public policies, from design to implementation, in order to determine whether they are achieving their objective. One of the essential elements for meeting this dual requirement is knowledge, leadership and evaluation not only of the workforce but also of the government's wage bill. For public service exists only if men and women return it every day through their work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u103	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u104	The State's payroll, including pensions, was EUR 129.6 billion in 2018, or 39% of the general state budget. It would pay about 35% of public employment through some 1500 different pay elements. Since 2009, expenditure on salaries has always been higher than the appropriations voted in the original Finance Act; This is regularly the case in the Ministries of Defence and National Education, but not only. Between 2009 and 2018, government staff expenditures increased by $10.4 billion, while between 2009 and 2018 the number of public officials paid – excluding ancillary budgets – decreased by 38,328 full-time equivalents and paid working time was reduced by 1,76,526 full-time equivalents worked – notwithstanding some field changes. And when the mass of wages tends to decrease, it is immediately caught up in an increase in expenditure on retirement pensions: for example, between 2007 and 2013, wage expenditure fell well by EUR 5.7 billion, but at the same time the expenditure on the special allocation account "pensions" was increasing by EUR 8.8 billion. By its scale and dynamism, its short- and long-term impacts, the State's wage bill is thus a key element of public finances. Its monitoring is essential in order to achieve the objectives of budgetary sincerity and balance of public accounts. Today, however, as the Minister for Action and Public Accounts did at the time of his hearing by our committee in the framework of the "Spring of Evaluation", there is a drift in the wage bill "badly calculated, poorly organised... which is paid, at the end, by the general budget". This is linked to the multiplicity of pilotage and follow-up difficulties, mainly due to old and structural factors. By way of example, I will cite the evaluation report of Amélie de Montchalin, in June 2018, concerning the research operators: it describes perfectly the mechanisms for under-executing the employment ceilings that ensured the effective coverage of the measures of changes in the wage bill that required them. In this context, the national representation and the ministries themselves have little information to enable them to know and act on the State's wage bill. The motion for a resolution that I am presenting to you, ladies and gentlemen, is not just about making a statement; it proposes concrete solutions in order to rapidly strengthen the management and evaluation of the workforce and the wage bill of the State, around four recommendations: first, to create a single document allowing a comprehensive and precise monitoring of the evolution of the wage bill of the State and its operators each year; Second, better assess in impact studies the effects of the measures taken on the wage bill and on the workforce, because, behind any public policy, there are agents; Third, to inform the national representation of the significant changes in the number of staff and the wage bill during the financial year; Finally, to disseminate and promote the emergence of a true culture of steering and analysis of human resources indicators, because, as the report on absenteeism which I have produced with my colleague Valérie Petit points out, there are real difficulties in the collection of data and the monitoring of relevant indicators. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, also applauds]] This proposal is a proposal for solutions. It extends the process of sencentizing public accounts and improving budgetary transparency that has been under way for the past two years. It responds to the demand of French citizens for transparency and monitoring of the use of public funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u105	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u106	This motion for a resolution contains certain elements with which I obviously agree, because it is necessary to be able to measure better in order to decide what should be done with regard to the wage bill and, more generally, the size of the State. It is clear that the State does not have a centralized human resources policy. It has one policy for each department in this area. The AFPB – the Directorate General of Administration and the Public Service – is not a human resources branch in the sense that it is understood in the company: it is in some way guardian of the statute, but does not manage the workforce. The work done by Mrs Motin and her colleague Valérie Petit shows all this very well. From there, we have to learn from it because following the evolution of the figures is one thing, but to do what? I am not sure that Mrs Motin and I have the same ideas then. But, in any case, better monitoring also means harmonising the terms and conditions of employment to better ensure this collective follow-up, perhaps with a human resources AFPB. This also means better work on the relationship between the status and the contract, which is not yet optimized, even after the law on the transformation of the civil service. It is also re-creating information systems, which have so far been rather failures. They must be information systems that effectively manage all staff, careers and salaries. And then it's also reducing the workforce in the public service. Although the Government had undertaken to do so, it did not. Rather, the government tends to increase the number of staff. Centralized human resources management would provide a better understanding of human resources with more illuminating and transparent figures. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Last point: I will propose to the Bureau of the Finance Committee tomorrow, as part of the drawing rights on the Court of Auditors' investigation work, that it work very actively on overtime in the civil service. It is an extremely opaque element, knowing that opacity does not serve the agents or the State itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u108	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u109	This motion for a resolution is entirely in line with the logic of the Spring of Evaluation, since it also deals with the first expenditure of the State by its volume. As you point out, Madam Special Rapporteur, the steering of the State's workforce in the broad sense and the control of the wage bill are perfect, several evaluation work, including your own, has already shown this. I therefore fully agree with your proposal to annex to the Finance Bill a document that provides detailed monitoring of the payroll of the government and its operators. It will be necessary to consider whether this document should be explicitly provided for in the Organization Act on Finance Laws or whether it can be achieved by an amendment to the ordinary or even constant law. It should be recalled that yellow on the state of the public service and on remuneration already presents a great deal of information on the wage bill of the State. In the short term, it could be considered, as you wish, to enrich it by following the recommendations of your resolution. I also agree with you that it is useful for the Finance Committees of the two Assemblies to have more complete information on the evolution of staff appropriations during the year. Again, we could change the practice to focus more on these expenses; In particular, it is the role of the Special Rapporteurs and today's debate demonstrates that they are taking full measure of their functions. As for the recommendation to present in the impact studies the consequences of the articles of the draft legislation on the size and salary of the State, there is probably a practice to be developed, you are right. It is already planned at the organic level that the impact studies will present the consequences of the provisions of the draft laws on public employment and public finances; It may be necessary to clarify these provisions so that they take into account government personnel costs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In short, I fully support this motion for a resolution. It is crucial that the information we have on state staff expenditure is comprehensive and clear so that Parliament and the executive can make choices, as the chairman of the Finance Committee pointed out, with full knowledge of the facts and whatever these choices... even if they differ.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u110	In the general debate, Mr Fabrice Le Vigoureux spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u111	I would like to offer an additional insight into the tonic intervention of my colleague Cendra Motin on the basis of the case study of the management of the wage bill by the major operators of the universities. The transfer of personnel management has indeed been identified by universities as the most formidable challenge of the transition to autonomy. Staff costs have steadily increased and in 2018 accounted for almost 85% of their budget, or 11.1 billion euros of payroll in finance law for 158000 full-time equivalents worked – ETPT. By comparison, these TTEs increased by 3.6% between 2011 and 2017, while those of the "Security", "Defence" and "Justice" missions decreased by 4.2% and the other non-educational missions lost 13.7%. Since the Act of 10 August 2007 on the freedoms and responsibilities of universities, known as the LRU Act, the university has moved from a logic of budgetary employment opened under the Finance Act to a logic of a global employment ceiling expressed in ETPT, which means that an agent is counted in proportion to his working hours and working hours in the year. In addition, the LRU Act has opened up new opportunities for university presidents in the recruitment of contract workers: they now account for almost 30 per cent of the total number of students in higher education and research. However, despite these flexibilities, many universities are experiencing or have experienced financial difficulties in managing their payroll. This may be explained by several factors. First, part of the general expenditure on payroll – wage measures, point of index, ageing technology, promotions – is de facto beyond the decision-making power of universities, as they are constrained by national decisions. These costs are not always based on models of efficient allocation of resources, especially since universities themselves do not always have the appropriate tools to carry out a thorough assessment of the evolution of their jobs and their wage bill. In particular, during hearings this spring with a few operators, I was able to measure their very great difficulty in quantifying, even in the short term, the technical old age shift. On the other hand, universities do not always grasp the room for manoeuvre available to them. In the absence of analytical accounting, they struggle to understand the full costs of a training project before its effective opening, which insures or hinders their development and the search for new own resources. The conditions for managing the payroll by universities can therefore be improved. Today, two compensation expenditure ceilings coexist and are not subject to clear and integrated management: on the one hand, a ceiling for jobs paid by the institution, and on the other hand, a ceiling for jobs authorised and financed by the State. In practice, therefore, a university cannot recruit more senior officials than is permitted by the state budget. There is an urgent need to develop multi-annual job and skill management tools in all institutions and to better integrate the State ceiling and ceiling wage bill into common human resources management. Too often, therefore, the increase in the employment ceiling does not translate into actual job creation: it compensates for the budgetary impact of wage measures such as the GVT. Thus, the plan for the creation of 5000 posts decided, remember, during the previous parliamentary term appeared – and we see it today – very artificial, since more than a quarter of the appropriations made available for these creations have been used for anything other than to finance them, which poses a real problem of transparency and monitoring of the appropriations voted. In order to improve the visibility and clarity of the quantitative commitments made by the executive, it may be necessary to include the cost of the GVT and other wage bill measures decided by the State in the calculation of the subsidy allocated to the operators, by covering part of the cost, and from a very important perspective, multiannual. The priority, in keeping with the spirit of the resolution presented this evening, is to significantly improve the multi-year wage bill management tools that are currently insufficient. In this context, the strategic and management dialogue, experienced for the first time in 2018, needs to be deepened in order to allow the department and institutions to exchange finer and more reliable information on their payroll trajectory. This illustration is therefore fully in line with the general framework of the resolution and shows the importance of a project which is indeed difficult, but which does not seem to us to be out of reach. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In politics, as in music, the resolution supported by Mr Motin will, at least I hope, find the perfect agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u112	Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u113	This draft resolution seems necessary to me, because the first thing for a decision-maker, whatever his or her situation, is to be able to measure the impact of his or her decisions in terms of human resources. It must be admitted that today the situation is totally abnormal: the State as a whole, but also several ministries – I am thinking in particular of the national education ministry – do not know their staff, sometimes to thousands of posts. The information that this resolution proposes to communicate to us at regular intervals is therefore a step forward. However, we will only have general data to apply; And as we know, averages often hide individual situations that are sometimes very different. I will take two examples. The first area in which everyone now agrees that there is a clear shortage of staff is the public hospital. Currently, 115 emergency services are on strike: this level of mobilization is unprecedented and must alert those in charge at the highest ministerial level. In all institutions, the emergency department is the one responsible for the tensions, saturations and understaffing of other services. In addition, the emergency services are facing an explosion in their attendance due both to population changes and to the shrinking supply of city medicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u114	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u115	A specific indicator on hospital occupations therefore seems more than necessary to me. My second example relates to a completely different register. The reorganisation of State services has now made certain occupations less necessary. I am thinking, for example, of the agents in the territorial delegations of our departmental directorates of the territories. The missions of DDT have in fact been thoroughly reviewed in recent years, and a number of the tasks formerly performed by the agents of these local delegations have been entrusted to the competitive sector, so that today some of them are regularly under-employed, which is not satisfactory for themselves or for the proper use of public money. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] These two examples therefore lead us to consider that having global figures on the workforce and on the wage bill of the State would be a step forward, but that the need goes beyond that: we need figures for very specific occupations. It is indeed in the detail that the stakes are at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u116	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u117	This motion for a resolution, tabled by our colleague Cendra Motin for the Republic on the move, aims to improve certain parliamentary control tools. There is currently no document to assess the impact of the legislative provisions on the evolution of the staff of the State, the three public offices and their operators. However, the dynamism of this wage bill strikes public finances and must be controlled: this long-standing objective of good public financial management has not been fully achieved so far. The difficulties in steering and monitoring the State's wage bill are due to old and structural factors such as the timeliness and accuracy of available data, the complexity and diversity of staff compensation structures and, in some ministries, the unpredictability of developments. If we, as parliamentarians and by virtue of the powers conferred on us by the Constitution, have the task of monitoring the action of the Government, how can we control an action whose balance sheet is not accessible? What tools would allow us to have a comprehensive view of the impacts of public policies that are the translation of the laws that we adopt in this House? This is the reflection that was carried out during the spring of the evaluation by our colleague Cendra Motin, who is familiar with these subjects since she is, together with Valérie Petit, Special Rapporteur on Public Service Appropriations. Their previous report pointed to the difficulties in understanding in practice the effects of the reintroduction of the deficiency day on sick leave in the public service carried out by Article 115 of the Finance Law for 2018, which the Government hoped to save 270 million euros on 2018. This document found that administrations had difficulties in tracking the impact of this policy, which resulted in results in figures when it was last implemented in 2012, with a reduction in short-term sick leave. The difficulty also lies in the fact that before the provision reached a period of application long enough to draw conclusions as to its impact, another piece of legislation, provided for in the draft law on the transformation of the civil service and concerning sick leave for pregnant women, has changed its scope. This example can be found in many areas of our intervention as parliamentarians. It is therefore important to know more about the impact on the State's wage bill of the provisions which are voted on in this House. In 2018, the government's payroll was EUR 129.6 billion, up 2% after an increase of 3.4% in 2017. According to the reports annexed to the finance laws, it increased by just over EUR 10 billion between 2009 and 2017. Since 2009, its implementation has consistently exceeded the appropriations voted in the Finance Act. In a context of tighter control of public finances, also marked by the Government's desire to modernize the civil service, this motion for a resolution is therefore aimed at strengthening the management and evaluation of the State's workforce and wage bill. Its objective is to invite the Government to provide, in the context of the revision of the Organic Law on Finance Laws, for the publication of a single budget document annexed to the financial laws allowing the detailed monitoring of the State's payroll and all its components. It also aims at renovating the monitoring procedures for the implementation of the Government's workforce and payroll, in particular by giving the finance committees of the two assemblies a better visibility on the forecast documents for the management of the jobs and staff appropriations of the ministries, as well as on their evolution in the course of the year. Finally, it aims to systematically incorporate into each impact assessment accompanying a draft law an assessment of the effects of the articles of the draft law on the workforce as well as on the wage bill of the State. By calling for greater transparency and control of the State's wage bill, this motion for a resolution reinforces the objectives of transparency and good management of public finances pursued by our majority. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u118	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u119	For the second spring of the evaluation, the majority The Republic on the move has chosen to have a motion for a resolution tabled by the Finance Committee on the strengthening of the management of the State civil service and the State wage bill. While we Socialist and related Members share the proposals contained in this motion for a resolution, which we will support, we disagree with a number of arguments put forward by its authors. Let me go back to the four objectives of the motion for a resolution that we are going to support. The first is to have detailed monitoring of the Government's payroll and its components. I think it is a matter of common sense: this is something that has long been requested by all the rapporteurs-general of the budget, without much success. This monitoring, which makes it possible to distinguish what falls within the normal salary increase from what falls within the scope of advancements, is essential to assess the State's wage policy. When the right implemented the well-known general review of public policies, it used a counterpart consisting of upgrading certain categories A, only in certain ministries. In order to obtain this information, it had been necessary under the previous quinquennium for the Special Rapporteur to threaten to seize documents and premises in Bercy, as permitted by article 57 of the Financial Law Organization Act. In her special report, she wrote: "The findings clearly illustrate the shortcomings in the management of reforms, both in their implementation and in the evaluation of their results, and in particular the savings they would achieve. » She also wrote: "It is clear that the budgetary follow-up for each of the RMPP's projects was, at the very least, insufficient. " The conclusion of his report was as follows: "In the light of the available data, it appears that the system has been truly misdirected in its application. Some of the departments that have made the most efforts in downsizing are not, far from it, those that benefit most from this categoryal return. » We therefore fully support this objective of improving the readability of the evolution of the payroll and its components. The second objective is to give the finance committees of our two assemblies greater visibility in terms of forecasting. Again, every year, at the time of the settlement law, we discover that the actual numbers expressed in PTSD are lower than the maximum number voted in the original finance law. Thus, at the end of 2018, the number of full-time equivalent jobs was 26,000 less than the ceiling. Having this visibility would make it possible to adjust as best possible. When, under the previous quinquennium, the majority I belonged to decided to recreate 10,000 posts in the gendarmerie and the national police, the Government was suspected by the opposition at the time of not having created these posts. The Minister of the Interior of the time, Bernard Cazeneuve, had to appoint the General Inspectorate of Finance as a matter of urgency to do the counting and confirm the creation of these posts. If the objective is fulfilled, there will no longer be a need to mandate the General Inspectorate of Finance as a matter of urgency! The third objective is to have impact assessments that assess the impact of the voted effects on the workforce and the wage bill. Here too, we fully agree, since we are constantly calling for impact assessments. The fourth objective is to strengthen the emergence of a culture of monitoring relevant human resources and staff expenditure indicators. I confess that I did not fully understand what this objective could be in practice. If it is a question of having a precise dashboard by administration, this seems extremely relevant to me. If this should lead to a purely budgetary approach, without strategic reflection on missions, this is a problem. It would be interesting if the sponsors of the motion for a resolution could clarify that point. As you will understand, we will vote on this motion for a resolution. However, let me say a few words about the arguments you have used to justify it. You say that the payroll increased by just over 10 billion euros between 2009 and 2017. This amount is of course significant, but over the period 2012-2017 it remains below the growth of economic growth, which was not the case during all the five-year periods. The creation of wealth was greater than their consumption. In addition, you indicate that the payroll represents "a considerable portion of the government budget," almost as if it were shocking. I do not think it is shocking that the State is also designed to provide services for our citizens and that this has an impact on its expenditure. In 2016, we carried out an exercise, which was published and reiterated by the current rapporteur-general, to break down public expenditure – state, social security and local authorities – by nature of expenditure: operation, investment, social expenditure and debt burden. The "functioning" part has not changed since 2000: it still accounts for 18% of GDP. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I conclude by saying that we will vote for this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u120	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u121	The spring sequence of the evaluation that has just taken place has highlighted the weaknesses of some of our budgetary control mechanisms, particularly in the monitoring of the state's wage bill. Indeed, in 2018, expenditure implementation was largely in line with the voted budget. However, spending continues to grow, although at a slow pace, particularly as regards the wage bill, which increases by almost EUR 2 billion and which alone accounts for almost 39% of the budget, i.e. just over EUR 129 billion. This drift is difficult to accept in view of the imperative need to control the State's wage bill in order to achieve the balance of France's public accounts, in accordance with its European commitments. Moreover, how can the State not be virtuous, when it imposes on local authorities, in the context of a contract, absolute rigour in controlling their operating expenses, and in particular their wage bill, which is now regulated? In order to meet the expectations of the French, who call for better control and transparency of public expenditure, careful attention must be paid to the situation of the wage bill and the staff of the State. However, this analysis is obviously only possible if parliamentarians, whose task is to control the budget, have access to relevant, legible and complete data. However, as the author of this motion for a resolution makes clear in the explanatory memorandum, this is currently not the case. Data on the Government's workforce and payroll are scattered across too many budget documents. This dispersal of information does not facilitate the analysis and understanding of the problems underlying the Government's payroll and, consequently, the identification of solutions to address them. The process of budgetary sincerity necessarily involves having accurate and consistent data over time. The purpose of this resolution is therefore to correct these shortcomings, first of all by proposing that a single budget document be published during the revision of the Organic Law on Finance Laws, allowing detailed monitoring of the State's payroll and all its components. I fully agree with this proposal, which will enable the national representation to carry out its tasks of monitoring and monitoring budget implementation effectively. This measure should also be supplemented by the rule that the benchmarks used to measure and quantify the wage bill, the size of the government and its impacts do not change during the year, or even during the term of office, if I may make a suggestion, in order to bring stability and relevance to the analysis. Furthermore, the resolution suggests that parliamentarians, and in particular the members of the Finance Committee, should have greater visibility on the forecast documents for the management of the jobs and staff appropriations of the ministries, and that this information should be communicated to them in the course of the year. Of course, we agree with this proposal, which will allow for more upstream action in the event of slippage. Finally, the impact studies carried out in the framework of the legislative proposals are most often completely lacking an analysis of their impact on the workforce and the wage bill of the State, which, you will agree, is an aberration. Our group therefore fully supports the idea of systematising these relations, with an ad hoc impact assessment. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Last but not least, our computer systems for data and analysis are, for many of them undoubtedly, obsolete and poorly adapted to the scale of the task. It is therefore essential to update and even replace them, and to decline them across departments, for the sake of consistency. The resolution presented by our colleague Cendra Motin therefore seems to be a step in the right direction, calling for more legibility, pragmatism and logic in terms of data on the wage bill and the size of the state – we desperately need it. That is why, on behalf of the IDU and independent Group, and as Members of the European Parliament, we will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution that is in common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u122	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u123	Everyone knows the number of public servants in the three public functions, and the debates on the modernization of our public service: there was the RGPP, then the modernization of public action – MAP – and we are now looking for a new name. Turning to this issue from the point of view of the number of civil servants alone is a misguided process. In that regard, the candidates in the last presidential election had been running for the stallion: it was going to eliminate the most civil servants. The real questions are: Do we need more or less public servants? Is the effectiveness on the rendezvous? These issues are of particular importance in the aftermath of the yellow vest crisis, and after the President of the Republic has abandoned his goal of reducing the number of civil servants by 120,000. It has not escaped you, moreover, that if, of these 120,000 officials, the State could decide to abolish 50000, it was a bit unusual to decide instead of local authorities, knowing that the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities is engraved in the marble.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u124	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u125	This is why we cannot question the evolution of public functions without thinking about a new wave of decentralization and the distribution of competences. We know very well that duplicates exist. Not to recognize it is not to want to look the truth in the face. Duplicates are slow, and slowness costs money and stirs the resentment of our fellow citizens. Our public spending increased by 2.6 billion euros in 2018, including 2 billion euros for personnel expenditure alone. The total staff expenditure – including the "pensions" special assignment account – amounts to €130 billion in 2018. Although wage bill growth slowed slightly compared to 2017, it was 2% in 2018 compared to 3.4% in 2017, it remains above the average for the 2008 to 2017 period. Clearly, staff costs now account for almost 39 per cent of the general budget's expenditures. Record beat in Europe! However, are public services provided in other EU countries less good? I leave you free from your judgment, but I must admit that some reforms in neighbouring countries have not led to a deterioration of the public service, even if there are fewer officials. In this regard, the former minister who spoke before me said that we must break with our tendency to want to solve all problems by increasing public spending. In addition, there is the question of monitoring the wage bill of the State and its operators. As a result of the attempt to freeze public service expenditures, operators were created and 400,000 civil servants were transferred. Not seen, not taken! But a simple calculation shows that those who are no longer part of the three public functions have been transferred to the operators. Of course, a number of documents and indexes allow us to check whether what had been provided for in the original finance law is being applied, but again, we are far from the account. The State, like a company or any community, must have steering tools, including the feelings of the citizens to whom it renders public services. One previous speaker mentioned the difficulty of accurately assessing the number of national education officials. Some departmental boundaries are blurred, and new ministers want to pursue new policies; They must therefore use agents to apply them. In addition, there are always duplications and delays. For example, the European funds managed by the regions are always controlled by state officials, even within the regional prefectures. All these officials could be transferred to the regions. Finally, like many of you, we regret Parliament's very weak information on the implementation under way. We have the initial copy, and then we don't see anything: it's the total fog, and we finally find that the execution was not in line with the forecasts. It is therefore necessary to have a single budget document, annexed to the finance laws, allowing detailed monitoring of the State's payroll and all its components. Parliamentarians must be informed at all times and must not discover the copy as one discovers an administrative account of a town hall – I see Mr Mattei acquiesce. Finally, we regret the absence of a systematic impact assessment. We have 15 or 20 years of experience in skills transfer. Have they translated into more efficiency, or have we been wrong? [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] This resolution is in line with the trend towards the consolidation of the public accounts and the improvement of budgetary transparency. That is why the Liberties and Territories Group will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u126	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u127	The text we are looking at is intended to provide parliamentarians with a clearer and more detailed view of the government's payroll. All too often, Parliament does not have the levers to actually carry out its tasks, or they are taken away from it. Strengthening its prerogatives to monitor the budgets implemented and to prepare future budgets therefore seems to us to be an interesting step forward. This visibility, we have been asking for for a long time, and on many subjects. It is essential to us in order to better draw the conclusions of the policies which, in our view, I say quite clearly, dismantle the State, empty the public service of its essence and privatize too many common goods. Year after year, mission by mission, it is important to be able to examine the results of the policies for the abolition of posts, and their concrete consequences for the daily lives of our fellow citizens. These simplified documents could therefore feed our work and feed our discussions. The one on civil service reform is not least. Throughout the quinquennium, you have made the dismantling of the state and its public services a political priority. By degrading services to citizens, you have deepened territorial inequalities. Those who listened to what the yellow vests said understood the seriousness of the problem. For you, in the end, the state is not the solution to the problem, but the problem itself. Most of the current ministers, who have important positions, have participated in successive governments in the previous two five-year period, so I can include in my criticism everything that has been done for almost ten years. From 2007 to 2012, at the time of the RGPP desired by Nicolas Sarkozy, 150,000 posts of civil servants were abolished.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u128	But the officials were better paid!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u129	Under the Dutch quinquennium, 33,500 positions suffered the same fate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u130	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u131	After these ten years of dismantling of the state opens a new sequence, yours, that of the planned abolition of 120000 additional posts. It is true that you have receded, due in particular to the different social movements, but you still want to maintain the objective of abolishing a significant number of posts. Secretary of State Olivier Dussopt even welcomed the fact that, every year, 12,000 to 15,000 civil servants retire without being replaced – I quote from memory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u132	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u133	You will judge, my dear colleague. These deletions ignore all the emergencies that our country is facing and that the Prime Minister recalled in his policy statement. The State withdraws and abdicates. For example, despite the environmental emergency, the National Forestry Office may be privatized, leaving our forests in the hands of private appetites. Do you agree with that, ladies and gentlemen? In 2018, spending on sustainable ecology, development and mobility decreased by 3% at constant scope. Whole sections of know-how necessary to ensure an ambitious and necessary ecological transition are swept away with a back end. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that is very concrete! Despite the social emergency, the Government continues to break the hospital. Indeed, 800 posts were abolished in 2018 and 2019 in hospitals in Paris. Is that crazy? Go tell that to the staff mobilized! In his letter to the French, Emmanuel Macron said he wanted to find a solution to anger; In fact, he only dilute or ignore them. Your policies apply even as the population grows and, alas, poverty progresses. We believe that another important issue is the management of the state's human resources. The figures on the evolution of the workforce are not enough for us. New managerial practices in the public service are affecting public officials. More than 75 emergency services are on strike today – I guess you think that's great, given the self-congratulation of government action we've heard. How many burn-outs in the services overloaded and sabotaged by austerity policies? How many cases of work-related suffering and ill-treatment affect agents and make it difficult, if not impossible, to carry out their tasks? The denial strategy must stop. Nothing is communicated, nothing filters, while any order to have accurate data to establish a state of well-being at work. These phenomena are part of a general deterioration of working conditions. Today, 20 per cent of public officials are contractual. In 2016, 70% of fixed-term contracts had a duration of less than one year. The purchasing power of public servants has been declining steadily over the past decade. You mentioned earlier the "spring of evaluation", but we should rather talk about the "winter of the civil service" with the freezing of the point of index, which allowed the state to save almost EUR 100 billion, the amount of tax evasion and evasion. In fact, civil servants pay for cheaters. We are not against an assessment of the size of the State, but in order to protest strongly against all the bad blows that you have done to the public service, we will not support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u134	What a sectarianism!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u135	We will continue to denounce the concrete consequences of the wrong blows you are inflicting on the public service, which is creating a lot of unrest in our country today. I invite all the courageous people who are going up to this rostrum to speak with the officials who are now mobilized, who are tired of the continuing policy of dismantling the state that you are leading. Good hearer, hi!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u136	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u137	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u138	Go ahead, Mr. Jumel! I warmed them up for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u139	With all due respect to our colleague on the initiative of this motion for a resolution, I note that the Liberals have some strength in presenting us with old recipes as if they were innovative, relevant and modern. At the end of the day, as has already been said in this rostrum, this motion for a resolution takes on board what irritates public policies since Nicolas Sarkozy's quinquennium to address the public deficit, under the 3% ceiling engraved in the marble of the European Constitution. It also takes on its own account the recommendations of the Court of Auditors when examining the budget of the State or the regional chambers of accounts when examining the budget of the local authorities. Each time, the proposed pilotage tools aim to achieve the same goal: not to rationalise or improve the efficiency of public spending, but to rationalise, reduce or eliminate the public service that is held at the expense of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u140	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u141	And the tax cuts!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u142	My dear colleague, we are proposing to lower the taxes of some and to increase the taxes of others. Maybe we'll have a chance to get back to it. In terms of leadership, I would like to see an examination of the social impact of these austerity policies, which have been for too long the alpha and omega of the liberals, their environmental impact, their impact on living together, and their political impact on the anger of the people. If we do not take care of it, if the Republic is not there, the people risk pushing the Republic itself. Let's get to the heart of the matter. In your respective territories, ladies and gentlemen, are there too many policemen? Are there too many gendarmes? In our courts, are there too many magistrates to ensure local, reactive and humane justice?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u143	There are too many technocrats!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u144	When it comes to human accompaniment, are there too many agents who take care of people? Is there too many AVS – school life assistants – to accompany students with disabilities? Are there too many ATSEMs – specialized territorial agents of kindergartens – to take care of our children?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u145	Are there too many communal employees?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u146	Are there too many communes in our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u147	There are too many communes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u148	Perhaps that is what those who preceded you thought when they implemented the territorial reform, which moved our territories and removed the public services from the state by bringing them together in the big cities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u149	We have to go back to the NOTRE law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u150	On the eve of the municipal elections, are you going to tell the mayors that you are going to decide, contrary to the principle of the free administration of the territorial authorities engraved in the marble of the Constitution, the level of public expenditure that finances the public policies carried out in the service of their territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u151	Change the form!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u152	Your pilotage policies, as you imagine them, you, the liberals you are, are at the service of this unique goal of reducing spending. I therefore recognize the merit of consistency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u153	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u154	You're not talking about RGPP anymore, because you re-dressed it...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u155	We've also known MAP!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u156	Several barbaric acronyms have been used to justify the removal of municipal cash, the relocation of local post offices... We talked about "Bercy on the move", about the modernization of public policies... In fact, you will tighten the same blabla to local elected officials, to actors on the ground, for several years. Ladies and gentlemen on the right, you cannot pretend to be at the bedside of the rural world and support this motion for a resolution. You cannot deplore the asphyxiation of our hospitals and defend this text. You cannot say that our territories are forgotten, humiliated, and support a leadership that aims to amplify this movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u157	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u158	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u159	The future ex-candidate at the city hall of Paris has denied it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u160	He won't be a candidate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u161	... I do not understand that one can claim to exercise responsibilities in a relationship of proximity while defending such policies. But I repeat, I recognize the merit of consistency. Your reforms are at the service of this unique goal of reducing public spending. This is proof of your latest reform, your ill-named bill for the transformation of the public service: by precarising, contracting, bringing the logic of the private sector into the public service, you will allow an effective steering of the reduction of public spending, an easy steering of the elimination of jobs, including by making these removals invisible – but they are not invisible for France, which is lacking, for France, which is suffering, for France, which wants a balanced planning of the territory. That is why we will vote, without hesitation, against this austere approach to public policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u162	On the motion for a resolution, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u163	As indicated in the explanatory memorandum to the motion for a resolution, the State's payroll has increased by more than EUR 10 billion since 2009 and by 5.4% since the beginning of the quinquennium. The "many advances made in two years", which you glorify in the explanatory memorandum, are in fact non-existent. The French public service is rightly known to be one of the best in the world. We have to say hello to him. The recruitment of public servants, based on demanding competitions, is a guarantee of meritocracy and must protect us from the entrepreneurship, copying and jobs of complacency prevalent in some communities. Public servants show remarkable dedication and a sense of public service, while their working conditions and incomes continue to deteriorate – it must be said in front of this assembly. For the past ten years, we have been witnessing the pursuit of a policy of weakening public power in the name of a purely ideological logic, which is that of President Macron: it is a matter of accelerating the advent of the "start-up nation". The deregulation imposed by the Brussels Commission now applies to public authorities, which are required to abandon all their tasks to the market, thereby denying any value to the general interest to which officials are so attached. As Paul Valéry said, "if the state is strong, it crushes us; If he is weak, we perish." For the past two years, the Government has continued the policies of weakening the state initiated under the presidency of Nicolas Sarkozy and continued during the quinquennium of François Hollande. Your motion for a resolution comes under the skilful guise of sensurging public accounts, improving budgetary transparency and better informing parliamentarians of budgetary matters. In fact, it is only a tool in the service of President Macron's campaign promise: to abolish 120,000 public servants by 2022. You were confronted with the anger of the French, who went down the street to shout their refusal to see public services disappear in entire parts of our territories. While France ranks second among the OECD countries in terms of fiscal pressure, our citizens have the legitimate feeling that, when public services do not disappear, their functioning is made particularly chaotic by the lack of resources allocated. Over the past two years, the re-establishment of the waiting day and the freezing of the index point have further increased the fragility of civil servants, who see their working conditions deteriorate continuously. Of course, everyone agrees on the need to save money. Civil servants and the French in general are aware that the public service must evolve. It is not a question of setting up a plan on the wage bill of the State without discernment, but of abolishing all unnecessary public expenditure and combating various frauds. The first priority must be to combat social fraud. According to magistrate Charles Prats, some 1.8 million social security numbers are based on fraudulent documents, fuelling a fraud amounting to EUR 14 billion, i.e. three times the social security deficit in 2017. Fraudulent social security accounts allow individuals to claim social assistance on a large scale. This massive fraud persists, in the absence of genuine political will. However, it would be possible to introduce the principle of a cessation of payments as soon as a fraudulent document was discovered in a social security file, or to introduce a biometric vital card merged with the identity document. That is what we are proposing. It would also be possible to achieve significant savings on the state budget by drastically reducing the state medical aid – MEA – reserved for illegal immigrants. This increased by 5.1% in 2019 and this year will amount to more than €930 million from the state budget. Recall that the AME is financed by the taxes of the French taxpayers, who have to face more and more important leftovers. Another way to save public money would be to put an end to the costly overlay of local and regional authorities, who have unclear skills and often overlap. There should be an end to risky recruitment in these same communities, as well as an end to inefficient state operators, at 1200, which cost EUR 80 billion per year. It is the reorganization of an ambitious public service, the definition of means and objectives, as well as the consolidation of the social edifice built by the French that must concern us, and not the destruction that you undertake with the regularity of an automata. For all these reasons, we will vote against this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u164	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u165	A motion for a resolution on strengthening the management and evaluation of the State's workforce and wage bill can only receive the Government's sympathy. It makes several interesting observations, on which I will come back, and proposals to improve our management. The first observation, mentioned by several Members, is that the wage bill has increased by EUR 10 billion since 2009. This facial increase is to be analysed precisely and is explained for more than 80% by the increase in the contribution rate to the special-purpose account – CAS – Pensions. Expenditure on non-contributory payroll in the "pensions" case, known as non-cass, only included in the standard of pilotable expenditure of the State, and thus more representative of the expenditure on payroll, increased by only €1.4 billion over this period. The readability of this type of information – CAS or non-CAS – can be greatly improved by the report you are recommending. I'll come back.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u166	[[Smile]] If that's not techno, I don't know anything about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u167	In addition, the long-term analysis highlights the important work that has been done over the past two years. Indeed, the Government has considerably improved the sincerity of the budget programming process, which for the first time in more than 10 years has led to lower-than-programmed implementation of 2018. However, the budgeting difficulties identified in the draft resolution were real. They are mainly related to the availability of data at the time of the construction of the finance bill and the difficulty in establishing the link between year n-1, for which accurate data are available, year n, for which implementation is not complete, and year n+1, for which you are budgeting. In any event, we broadly agree with the statement made in the draft resolution. The Government's approach to Sincerization has already made it possible to mitigate the slippages that have been observed for many years. The additional measures you suggest would make it possible to go even further in this process. Thus, the production of a single budget document allowing detailed monitoring of the wage bill of the State and its operators would indeed improve the monitoring and understanding of the mechanisms underlying the evolution of the wage bill. The disclosure in the course of the fiscal year of departmental employment management forecast documents and staffing appropriations may create practical difficulties and may not be very illuminating. These documents are subject to very regular updates as part of the management dialogue between departments and budget controllers, and their analysis requires a good assessment of the degree of validity of the various elements presented. The impact assessments submitted to Parliament in support of each bill are intended to make it possible to assess, in advance, the economic, financial, social and environmental implications of the reforms envisaged in a bill. Therefore, the evaluation of the effects of a draft law on the size of the State's payroll is already part of the objectives of these studies. The request made in the motion for a resolution can therefore only receive a favourable opinion. Finally, as monitoring of the government's workforce and payroll is a regular government priority, any adaptation of information systems for human resources – HR – or pay – SI-Pay – and decision-making tools fed by these information systems to strengthen the HR tracking culture can only be desirable. That's what we do and we're going to accelerate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] Given the lateness of the time, I will conclude very quickly by saying that the draft resolution urges the Government to speed up the work it has already begun on this subject and therefore receives a favourable opinion from the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u168	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u169	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 44 Number of votes cast 43 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 38 Against 5
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u170	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u171	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u172	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of the motion for a resolution by Mrs Perrine Goulet and several of her colleagues calling on the Government to prevent and correct over-executions and under-executions of financial laws (No. 2014.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u173	Mrs Perrine Goulet, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u174	Like many of my colleagues before me, I would like to acknowledge the relevance and success of this new "spring of evaluation." In recent weeks, our Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control has borne his name particularly well. It is my pleasure to present this motion for a resolution as Special Rapporteur on the appropriations of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission. Its purpose may seem to be satisfied with the review of the proposed Regulations. This is partly true, but it allows us to make observations above all, whereas it must be used, like the July policy debate, to set a course for the autumn. One of the conditions for consent to tax and authorization of expenditure is that the Government then presents a rate of implementation of commitment authorizations and payment appropriations as close as possible to the ceiling voted, i.e. 100 per cent. The data for calculating this ratio are those provided by the annual performance reports – RAPs – for each mission. There are important developments in the work of the Special Rapporteurs. It should be noted with satisfaction that their deposit was anticipated in 2019. To some extent, achieving a rate of less than 100 per cent, a situation known as "under-execution", or a higher rate – which is then referred to as "over-execution" – is very often justified by the ministries concerned, which generally explain with transparency what reports of cases or crises have necessitated moving away from the target. The implementation rate is not just a figure: it must give rise to a political comment. However, and I come to the central mechanism advocated by the motion for a resolution which I am defending before you, beyond a certain degree, which can be determined at 3%, the nature of the debate is changing. A gap of this magnitude, if not greater, above or below the ceiling granted under the Finance Act undoubtedly reflects a lack of anticipation: the Government's administrations must not spend too much, i.e. generate debt or maintain too many margins, depriving other public policies of the means they would have been able to mobilize. In this regard, I would like to mention three examples, which result in a cumulative difference of almost EUR 1 billion: in 2018, the "Culture" mission shows an execution of 95.9% in commitment authorisations, the "Sport" programme of the "Sport, Youth and Associative Life" mission used only 94.4% of its payment appropriations, or even 81.5% after analysis and reprocessing, and the "Overseas" mission obtained an appropriation under the law of amending finance, of which it consumed only 86% in commitment authorisations and 42% in payment appropriations. This latest configuration is therefore even more surprising: whereas the purpose of the amending finance law is to allow for an adjustment as close as possible to needs – especially at the end of the year, when there should no longer be surprises – we find that the requested increases have not been spent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u175	Excellent remark!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u176	Such cases should be the subject of more detailed information from program managers. Of course, the preparation of the next finance bill leads to important upstream negotiations, including technical meetings, performance conferences, scoping letters and budgeting conferences. These steps are important, but they take insufficient account of the budgetary situation in the first months of the current year and do not involve Parliament at all. My recommendation is therefore that the missions concerned, for which an over-evaluation or under-evaluation has been highlighted during the spring of the evaluation, should be subject, in addition to the PAP – the annual performance project – annexed to the PLF, or the draft finance law, for the following year, to the production of a document detailing the main lines of implementation over the first eight months of the current year, in the same way as the justification for the first euro of the PAPs and RAPs. This information would allow a better link to be given before the first Tuesday in October. The objective is for departments to better defend their budgets before Parliament through an early analysis of the implementation of the current year. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, by voting on this resolution, I therefore propose that the attention of the National Assembly should be given to the proper conduct of public accounts, through the prism of respecting the budgetary authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u177	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, Secretary of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, alternate Mr Eric Woerth, Chairman of the Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u178	I will mention three elements, instead of Eric Woerth – which I will not achieve, however, the level of competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u179	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u180	First of all, in this motion for a resolution we have to talk about the State's compensation for exemptions from social contributions, which are included in the appropriations for various missions – we will come back to that later. It must be noted that, throughout all the public policy evaluation commissions, all the special rapporteurs have found problems of over-implementation, taking into account inadequate or inadequately calibrated budget estimates. The criticisms or concerns expressed by some special rapporteurs, such as Mr. Ahamada for Maritime Affairs, Mr. Laqhila for Territorial Policy or Ms. Goulet and Ms. El Haïry for Sport, Youth and Associative Life, are realities. The fact that the state and social security, at the end of the day, are confounding in terms of public finances is a reality, but if the state is committed to compensating for exemptions, it must do so properly. That is the principle of this motion for a resolution. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the State's debt to social security is completely eliminated. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This is an important but necessary effort, and this debt should not be replenished to the detriment of social security. For example, the rapporteur-general, in his implementation report, has a net result that takes account of over- and under- and under-executions, although it would seem to me relevant and consistent to include all of these over and under- and under-executions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u181	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u182	You are right, Madam Special Rapporteur: it is up to Parliament to monitor the implementation by the Government of the financial laws and, if necessary, to question it about over-executions or under-executions. The examples you have just cited are very significant, since they concern either missions that are very demanding of correction because there are requests that are not met, or missions that are also very consuming of these tax credits that I love. Your motion for a resolution highlights a problem of timing in the information available to Parliament. At the time of the examination of the finance bill of year n+l, parliamentarians rely on the results of the budgetary implementation of year n-1 and on the forecasts of year n+l. However, they have little information on year n, the current year, even though the first results of the year may reflect a very large deviation from the forecast. Special rapporteurs, with the general powers conferred on them by the LOLF, may have such information. However, they are not automatically made public by the Government. That is why I support this motion for a resolution, which would explain the known results of the first months of year n of the programmes whose implementation would differ significantly from the forecast. Without providing for new annexes in the LOLF, this information could already be incorporated, where necessary, into the annual performance projects in their current form. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I would like to point out that the special rapporteurs can already, if they deem it necessary, alert the Government to problems of deviation from the forecast, depending on the information they can collect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u183	Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u184	I would like to welcome the initiative of my colleague Perrine Goulet, who proposed this resolution on the under-execution and over-execution of the financial laws to which I fully subscribe. As special co-rapporteur of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", I ensure that the resources we voted under the finance law are realistic and that there is no significant gap during the implementation of the appropriations, as do my fellow special rapporteurs for the public policies they follow. Indeed, it is essential that the words of the Government and the powers of control and evaluation of the Parliament be respected. This "spring of the budget" is part of the effort of the Government and Parliament since the beginning of the quinquennium to make the budget more sustainable. These efforts have borne fruit: the cost estimates appear to be increasingly reliable. In 2018, spending was particularly new. The Court of Auditors stressed that "2018 was marked by a management of state expenditure in line with the initial forecast. As a result, the management of budgetary risks has been improved, which we can welcome. This is due in particular to the significant decrease in sub-budgeting, as well as to a mastery of execution. Developments in the implementation of the budget since 2017 for programme 203 "Transport infrastructure and services" are indicative of these advances. With €537 million under-expenditure in 2017, the gap is now only €107 million, so we have reduced it by €430 million. When we know the amount of the missing funds to finalize the projections under the Mobility Orientation Act, this allows us to measure the efforts that have been made. Moreover, for the first time since 1985, the Government did not issue an advance decree in fiscal year 2018, in accordance with the commitment of the Minister of Public Action and Accounts, whom I welcome. This illustrates the rigorous and sincere nature of the budget forecast and the soundness of management during the year. I also welcome this practice which respects Parliament's prerogatives. However, as Mr Perrine Goulet has said, it is still possible to adjust appropriations under the finance law. To avoid overly large variances in delivery, the management of budgetary uncertainties can be further improved to minimize variances. Some missions present notable situations of under-implementation of appropriations and commitment authorizations. The "Work and Employment" mission and the "External Action of the State" mission have an under-execution of about 5%. Another illustrative example is that 10 per cent of the appropriations for the "Government Directorate of Action" mission have not been implemented. Two possible conclusions: the Ministry's financial needs were either overestimated or underestimated, with cyclical developments during the year. But it must also be borne in mind that, for some of the under-executions, there is a need for qualitative work in public policy. This is necessary because part of the budget loss may be due to a lack of relevance of public arrangements. The Government and the deputies therefore need more instruments to go further in the method of Sincerization and to reflect even more upstream on different budgetary allocations as well as on changes in public policies themselves. These tools are part of the prerogatives of the special rapporteurs recalled by the rapporteur-general. However, it is sometimes difficult to use them when we ask for the communication of documents which should be transmitted to us naturally within the framework of these prerogatives. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Let us not forget that the fulfilment of commitment authorities and payment credits is a condition for the consent of tax and the authorization of expenditure. Gradually, we are voting for an ever more realistic budget: we owe it to our fellow citizens. I therefore invite you to vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u185	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u186	Since the finance law is based on macroeconomic and financial assumptions, budgetary management can face unforeseen circumstances during its implementation. Various hazards can occur, such as natural disasters, military interventions, health crises, compensation for victims, new needs and unforeseen events. The management of the budget must therefore anticipate, throughout the year, what the expenditure will be at the end of the year. If necessary, it proposes corrective measures when the forecast tends to deviate from the original finance law and compliance with the expenditure standard. At the time of the introduction of the Finance Bill, the Government is committed to controlling expenditures within the framework of expenditure standards. These standards are a simple steering tool that enables the Government to report transparently to Parliament on its control of expenditure. In our discussions on the initial finance laws, in sittings and in an enlarged committee, we regularly alert the Government to budgetary sincerity. This principle implies the completeness, consistency and accuracy of the financial information provided by the State to build the nation's budget. This budgetary sincerity has been formalized by Article 32 of the LOLF, which states that "financial laws present in a sincere way all the resources and charges of the State. Their sincerity is appreciated in the light of the information available and the forecasts that can reasonably be expected from it. Sincerity, understood as the lack of intent to distort the broad lines of balance, cannot be measured or assessed objectively. That is why the Constitutional Council has never censored any finance law on this criterion. However, Didier Migaud, the first President of the Court of Auditors, did not hesitate to point out, in his audit on public finances published in June 2017, the inseverity of the budget for that same year. Gilles Carrez and Éric Woerth had, however, intervened on numerous occasions to alert the Government and public opinion about the dangerous drift of public accounts and the insinuity of this budget. This budget, let us recall, had been prepared by a young minister of the economy, the future President of the Republic. This audit of the Court of Auditors estimated that in 2016, the Government voluntarily under-budgeted nearly €4 billion of expenditure: the cost of external operations for 800 million; the training plan for the 500 000 unemployed for 800 million; aided contracts for 600 million; the recapitalisation of Areva to the tune of 2.5 billion euros, which the Government did not consider appropriate to include in the calculation of the deficit; and finally, pension expenditure for EUR 500 million. The Court of Auditors also raised EUR 2 billion in less revenue. Irrespective of this example, we see every year that expenditures are under-budgeted, in particular the external operations of our armies. For 2019, this undervaluation is estimated at 600 million euros, and I am not even talking about the universal national service, which is still not funded.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u187	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u188	The budgetary sincerity of the current majority is more than questionable. Last week, in his policy speech, Act II, the Prime Minister detailed to us a spending plan, without announcing any funding! And I am not talking about the 15 billion euros of additional expenditure related to the movement of yellow vests, which are still not funded! Moreover, all the Government's budgetary efforts, which had been announced with great pomp, are finally abandoned or reduced: the objective of returning to the balance of public finances in 2022; the objective of reducing the burden of public expenditure; the objective of reducing public debt by five points. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of this fact, we obviously support all the measures that are in the direction of greater budgetary sincerity. As you said, the spending of some departments is largely overstated when other departments do not have the financial means to carry out their missions. We can therefore only share the laudable objective of this motion for a resolution. But the majority and the Government must first and foremost impose these principles of good management of public funds, rather than derailing spending, deficits and debt, as is the case today. While the current Government was more sincere than the previous one, it was unfortunately equally unable to contain the debt that would be borne by future generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u189	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u190	This motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Perrine Goulet for the working Republic Group aims to improve parliamentary control tools. In the functions conferred on it by the Constitution in its articles 34, relating to the field of the law, and 47, relating to the voting of financial laws, Parliament acknowledges the consent to the tax of our fellow citizens. These principles are derived from articles 13 and 14 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen. The principle of budgetary sincerity, introduced by article 32 of the Organic Law on Finance Laws, provides that "financial laws present in a sincere way all the resources and charges of the State. Their sincerity is appreciated in the light of the information available and the forecasts that can reasonably result from it." Article 27 of the Organic Law also enshrines accounting sincerity: "The accounts of the State must be regular, sincere and give a true and fair view of its assets and financial position". This principle was extended to the accounts of all public administrations by the grantor in 2008, through article 47-2 of the Constitution. This motion for a resolution therefore questions the core of the democratic empowerment that we are given to vote on the financial laws and then monitor their proper implementation. It is regrettable that, as the rapporteurs have noted, the differences between the budget voted and its implementation are greater than 3%. Indeed, a variation above this figure, which is often cumulated over the whole budget, questions the sincerity of the budget. This discrepancy also calls into question the separation dictated by Article 40 of the Constitution, which is often opposed to Parliament in budgetary matters. Why would parliamentarians not be able to adopt provisions resulting in a reduction in resources or an increase in public office, on the grounds that their amendments were refused under article 40 of the Constitution, when the budget proposed to them by the Government was systematically different from the implementation of it? This inability to act on public resources is an obstacle to the corrective measures Parliament wishes to make in its monitoring activity, but it cannot engage in because of the lack of effective legislative means. The purpose of this motion for a resolution is, with good reason, to invite the Government to consider the tabling in Parliament of a justification for the first euro, inspired by the heading of the same title contained in the draft annual performance reports, covering the first eight months of the current budget year, for the voting units of the finance law or their programmes which, in the draft regulations for the previous financial year, show over-executions or under-executions exceeding by 3 per cent the ceilings voted in the original finance law or the openings made in the act of amending finance. It also invites the State party, if necessary, to submit this document no later than the date mentioned in the first paragraph of article 39 of the Organic Law, i.e. not later than the first Tuesday in October, the deadline for the tabling of the draft finance law on the Bureau of the Assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The MODEM Group supports these provisions, which aim to improve the fluidity of the debates and the sincerity of the budget documents. It remains to be hoped that it will be heard by the Government and lead to better practices in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u191	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u192	For the second spring of the evaluation, the majority chose to have a motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on Finance to better understand the rate of implementation of the budgets voted and to use the tools to achieve this. We can only agree, and we will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. The authors of the motion for a resolution give three examples of under-consumption of credits: culture, overseas and the Sport programme of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission. As such, I confess that pages 81 and 82 of your report on the 2018 Budget Settlement Bill, the rapporteur-general, are very instructive: they indicate for each mission the amount voted in the original finance law and the amount actually consumed, as well as the difference between the two. I have reviewed the report on the 2017 Budget Settlement Bill and a few older ones: it turns out that it is almost always the same missions that under-consumption. For example, the Justice Mission, which under-consumptived 116 million according to this year's report, had under-consumed 167 last year. According to this year's report and 46 million last year, the mission "Relationship with Local and Regional Authorities" has under-consumed 89 million. This under-consumption seems incomprehensible when we know that all local authorities are asking for additional funds and are told that there are no more credits! The "Health" mission is 17 million under-consumed this year, 38 last year. The "External Action of the State" mission remains the champion: less than 37 million according to this year's report and less than 168 last year. The official development assistance mission is less than 67 million, according to this year's report, minus 113 last year. As far as veterans are concerned, the under-consumption is 34 million, compared to 22 last year. Here too, it seems incredible: with every law of finance, we ask that this budget be re-aligned! The mission "Culture" is 24 million under-consumption according to this year's report and 62 last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u193	It's done on purpose!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u194	What should be drawn from this conclusion? As Ms. Cattelot said, the budget may have been wrong. Governments are aware of the temptation to vote high budgets to please their majority, while knowing that once the budget is voted, they will implement it as they wish. It is not unique to this majority: everything I say here can apply to previous majorities without any problems. It's the first lead...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u195	It's pretty classic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u196	... and this is obviously a problem. Another hypothesis is that there would be self-censorship of administrations. Maybe it's also a lead to explore. In any case, since chance is not the friend of the budget, it is nevertheless very curious to see that, at least in the last five years, the same missions are still under-executed. The motion for a resolution is therefore welcome to take up the problem from the outset. On the other hand, there are missions that over-consumption, perhaps because there is a form of shared hypocrisy, whatever the majorities, to vote on budgets that are less than the actual needs. The two missions that overconsumption are the "School Education" and "Immigration, Asylum and Integration" missions. They always give rise to important debates at the time of the discussion of the finance law, but it can be seen that in the end they are over-consumption compared to the budget initially voted. [[Applause on many benches]] And then, there are missions that under-consumption or over-consumption depending on the years – perhaps proof that the budget is better calibrated. Among them are the missions "Sport, youth and associative life", in underconsumption this year, or "Management of public finances and human resources" – this refers to the previous motion for a resolution. All this shows that there is no chance on the budgetary parts. A much more precise question, especially about under-consumption, is therefore a necessity. We will therefore vote in favour of your motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u197	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u198	It can be recognised that 2018 was marked by a management of the state's expenditures broadly in line with the initial forecast. I, along with Charles de Courson, have found enough artifice as an infringement of the budgetary virtue to bring this effort to the credit of the Government. Evidence of this – this has already been said – that no advance decree in the course of the year was necessary, while previous managements had experienced two, sometimes three. Thus, sub-budgeting was limited to 1.5 billion euros in 2018, compared to 4.4 billion euros in 2017, although, as Valérie Rabault said very well, one can be surprised by some sub-budgetings when one knows Bercy's technicality. This can give way to all interpretations... The Libertés et Territoires Group, however, welcomes the fact that the Government has managed to keep the expenditure envelope within the framework of budgetary authorities, thanks to the improvement of the quality of the initial budgeting. Cancellations and appropriations are also among the lowest since the entry into force of the LOLF. I would also like to stress, like the Court of Auditors, the low level of the reserve, which rose from 8 % in 2017 to 3 % in 2018. We break with the famous principle of freezing well known to those who have been in the budget for a few years. But despite these satisfactions, some management practices persist. This will not surprise the rapporteur-general, who has become an end in the matter. I am thinking, for example, of maintaining sub-budgeting in the field of external operations – up to EUR 600 million. We know it'll take another 600 million, but we're stuck on a sum we know it's not realistic at all. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors noted the inappropriate use of the appropriation for accidental or unpredictable expenses, of EUR 124 million in 2018. This envelope was used not to finance accidental or unpredictable expenditure, but to fill sub-budgeting, in particular the one linked to the European Stability Mechanism, to the amount of EUR 100 million – including who can – and to cover a need for staff, identified from the beginning of the management, for the mission "External action of the State". The purpose of the present resolution is to invite the Government to prevent and correct over- and under- and under-execution of financial laws. We can only encourage him in this direction. However, I would like to point out here that the funding of the Wallis-et-Futuna health agency, which saw its deficit reach €2.7 million in 2017, suffers every year from a lack of resources. While its budget has increased by 54% between 2012 and 2017, the last BIA provides for less than the 2012 fiscal year, even though no spending reductions are envisaged. So we know very well that there is under-budgeting! Let us recall that budgetary sincerity, which the Constitutional Council must assess, can be judged in the light of several principles: completeness, consistency and accuracy of financial information. The inseverity of the budget, in that it undermines Parliament's ability to grasp public action in a comprehensive and clear way, is an attack on our democratic organisation. Indeed, sub-budgeting can lead to management uncertainties, resulting in budgets being implemented that differ widely from voted budgets. However, do I need to point out that the implementation of the State budget is governed by a number of rules aimed at ensuring that it will be carried out as closely as possible to the wishes expressed by Parliament? Since we are talking about Parliament's oversight of budget implementation, allow me to make a few remarks about the spring of the evaluation as we look at the proposed Regulations. First of all, it is regrettable that the speaking time given to parliamentary groups, in particular to the opposition, during the examination of each mission is limited to two minutes. Although we are able to do very quickly and very well in two minutes, this can be complicated for large-scale missions. Secondly, I would like to make it clear that Parliament's control of the budget cannot be limited to examining its sincerity, without assessing the relationship between the resources committed and the effectiveness – which brings us back to the previous resolution. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As you will understand, we can only encourage the Government to prevent and correct over-executions and under-executions of financial laws. This resolution, in addition to improving the approach to the energisation of public accounts, responds to a need for transparency vis-à-vis Parliament, but especially vis-à-vis our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u199	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u200	I have basically noted on my "genuine" paper, because I believe that this is the key word in the debate on the settlement law in general, particularly on the under-execution or over-execution of appropriations. I never really believed it. I didn't believe it when I was executing the budget myself in my previous duties, and I don't believe it ever since I sat in this House! Internal practices in the administration, which aim at delegations of 20 or 25 per cent initially, then 90 per cent in a second stage, then 100 per cent in a third stage, is the example of the police, because as soon as you go to the gendarmerie, it is 25 per cent and then 100 per cent, with frosts, frosts, recruitments. That was the pompon, because when we talk about execution, we also talk in terms of employment ceilings, of the number of people we recruit. When you are an office manager, you cry all year long because you are understaffed, there is no one; and there you are told that you have about ten recruitments without category C competitions that arrive in your service on December 29. This therefore counts in the employment ceiling of year n, but you paid them over the year in question only about two days. This is one of the many tricks that escape national representation and make what we are discussing is not so sincere. The purpose of this resolution is to ensure that, as we discuss the finance bill, we have a photograph of what is being carried out within the various missions, programmes, and even actions, sub-actions, ministerial axes, whatever you want. This is an excellent proposal, especially since it is not very complicated to do, with budget implementation being followed by Chorus platforms and budget managers, programme managers and operational unit managers. You can even have them by cost centers, the thinnest mesh. We have all this information in real time when we're in the administration, when we're not tired of having it when we're parliamentarians and we're on radar. It's quite unbearable! We will still have to ask ourselves some day – I'm going to throw a little cobblestone into the pond – about the issue of asymmetrical fungibility. This is the question asked in the civil servant's competition as to whether the Organic Law on Finance Laws has been properly read. This means that you can transfer personal credits that you have not consumed to operating expenses, but you cannot use unconsumed operating credits to hire additional people. If you've been virtuous about spending – you've saved electricity, gas, paper, for example – you're thinking that you're going to be able to hire an additional collaborator. Well, no, that's not possible, because hiring officials is a burden, a burden, everything you know. Now, since you've only planned to recruit contract workers, perhaps you'll have to review this asymmetrical fungibility story, as long as you can separate from public officials overnight through conventional breaks and other fireworks. I am putting all this into the debate. These chronic, repeated sub-executions may be the result of this asymmetrical fungibility, which was intended to be an instrument of good management and which ultimately justifies the weakness of the means of the State and the administrations to act. We referred earlier to the opinions of the budgetary controllers. Whether at the departmental level, with departmental comptrollers and accountants, with the CBCMs, or at the regional level, I have never seen one give a assent. I've always heard them say, "Yes, but on a particular expenditure, I think you're going to break your face," and that even before the implementation of the budget began. So there's something that doesn't work. Often the devil hides in the EAs, the authorizations of engagement. There is a problem with Bercy, who refuses to give these damn AEs to all ministries so that we can benefit from real budgetary sincerity. We'll have to stop with this stuff! They end up being dropped – as well as opposite, payment credits, CPs, because we have to pay well the suppliers with which we have entered into contracts! [[Mrs. Valérie Rabault applauds]] I'll finish with a word. Since it is a question of budgetary insinuity, I still do not know how the various announcements made by the President of the Republic at his press conference will be financed, let alone those made by the Prime Minister here a few days ago. If anyone has the answer, I'd like to know it. It will be necessary to start drafting an amending finance law, or perhaps drafting it more often, which will make it possible to make more regular milestones, even if they are lighter and less time spent there.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u201	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u202	I'll be very brief. [[Ms. Cendra Motin applauds]] We are dealing with a technical subject, which does not eat bread, and, as I say at the outset, we will vote on this motion for a resolution because it may be useful to examine over-execution or under-execution of a budget in order to know what is the sincerity of a budget. This evening, after the weeks of the evaluation, I wonder how useful Parliament is in this area. Reform after reform – the reform of the Rules of Procedure has reinforced this – we reduce the prerogatives and powers of parliamentarians to move the law, correct it, improve it or completely change its meaning. And things are moving fast! At the same time, there are many opportunities, like this evening, to act as if Parliament were meant to be a kind of Economic, Social and Environmental Council evaluating public policies – in this case by discussing the implementation of the budget. But if there is a subject on which Parliament has very little power, it is that of the construction of the budget! The departments also have very little hand since, as we know, Bercy decides, Matignon arbitrator and the ministers bend. Two or three of them manage to eat crumbs, which sometimes translate into under-executions, since Bercy decided in advance what the roadmap would be and what budgets would be allocated. There is therefore a form of budgetary hypocrisy, not insinuity, to pretend to want to transform Parliament into an evaluation of the budget, when it does not have the hand. Perhaps in line with the same logic of reducing public expenditure, alpha and omega from successive governments for many years, I find that a lot of energy is being used to tighten the budget execution of expenditure, but much less to ensure the proper execution of revenue, as evidenced by the number of pages devoted to that part. I am not talking to you about tax evasion, about the gifts that have been multiplied in the last budget for the most affluent, I am not talking to you about the assessment of the relevance of the CICE, the tax credit for competitiveness and employment, or the tax-research credit, including to support innovation. The department itself has recognized that we are not good students in this area. I insist: we are often very mobilized, very attentive, almost obsessed by the execution of the expenses, but we often stalemate on the proper execution of the revenues, perhaps even on the optimization of their quest. [[Mrs. Valérie Rabault applauds]] That is what I am inspired by this text that we will vote for because, as my grandmother said, it is better than if it were worse.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u203	The general discussion is closed. On the vote on the motion for a resolution, I have a request for a public vote before me by the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u204	Your motion for a resolution notes that a number of programmes have a significant difference between the original finance law and the appropriations actually implemented and considers that these differences, found in 2018 but also in previous years, are not sufficiently documented and require better information from Parliament. A few comments on this. First of all, the Government wishes to recall the results achieved in 2018, which were welcomed by the Court of Auditors. The initial finance law for 2018 has thus built the budget on a clean-up basis. Drawing on the consequences of the reprogramming of appropriations carried out during the financial year 2017, as a follow-up to the audit of the Court of Auditors on public finances, the draft finance law made it possible to budget at their right level the compulsory expenditure, in particular the allowance for adults with disabilities and emergency accommodation, and to strengthen or position provisions for the coverage of hazards as in the missions "Defence" and "Agriculture", with a view to improving the sincerity of the budget. This resulted in an increase in the standard of pilotable spending of $5.1 billion in the BIA for 2018 compared to the BIA for 2017. The pilotable expenditure standard was ultimately under-executed by $1.4 billion in 2018 compared to the target set in the original finance law. The Court of Auditors stressed the quality of management 2018, noting "a controlled execution of expenditure and progress in managing budgetary risks". Secondly, the Government reiterates its commitment to provide Parliament with every means to analyse the results of the implementation of the State budget. In general, it is committed to an approach aimed, through an advanced timetable for the tabling of the bill of regulations – PLR – to accompany Parliament in strengthening its monitoring work on the implementation of the state budget, as initiated in 2018 as part of the "spring of evaluation". This approach, supported by the Government, is reflected, inter alia, in a communication enriched prior to the filing of the PLR. The third point: the Government wishes to recall that the work of budgeting and programming takes into account both the implementation of year n-l, but also the first trends in the implementation of year n. Thus, a very large part of the budgeting and programming work is based on the analysis of the underlyings of execution n-l, but also of the first known elements of execution n. The technical conferences held in March provide an opportunity to carry out this work, which is then updated at the various stages with a view to budgetary sincerity. Fourth point: the monitoring of implementation is a founding budgetary principle and an issue that the implementation of 2018 has recalled. The exercise of control is essential for updating public management issues. The motion for a resolution thus refers to the case of the Overseas Ministry, which has under-executed not only the appropriations made available in the original finance law, but also the appropriations made available in the amending finance law at the end of the year. Such a case calls into question the capacity of the services concerned to implement the public policies entrusted to them. In such a case, Parliament's control is essential to hold programme managers accountable and to encourage corrective action. A few nuances, at last. If the principle is shared, the proposed modalities for responding to it may be characterized by a somewhat uniform approach given the diversity of situations. The motion for a resolution calls for systematic information from Parliament on the implementation of the current year for programmes or missions which, in the year ended, have over-implemented or under-implemented by more than 3 per cent the appropriations approved in the original finance law. The uniform application of this 3 % threshold does not seem to be appropriate to the actual implementation of the budget for several reasons. First, applied to the 2018 financial year, this threshold would lead to information on 45 programmes in the state budget. This high number also reflects the fact that an overexpenditure of 3 % of appropriations is a usual element of budgetary implementation which cannot, in itself, mean an element of dysfunction in the implementation of public policies. Secondly, given the large number of programmes concerned, the Government would be required to provide Parliament with voluminous, non-hierarchical information according to the challenges of each programme. Finally, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum to the motion for a resolution, an overrun in management can be explained by several factors of a very different nature. It therefore seems to us that this is a case-by-case analysis to be conducted. It could be entrusted to the Special Rapporteurs, who have all the means provided by the LOLF to obtain any useful information, including on the implementation of the current year. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-I groups]] In conclusion, despite some nuances, as you have understood, regarding the implementation modalities, the objective pursued by this motion for a resolution is shared by the Government. I therefore propose that you approve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u205	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u206	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 27 Number of votes cast 27 Absolute majority 14 For adoption 27 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-18-O1280.u207	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Motion for a resolution on the control and evaluation of tax expenditure; Motion for a resolution on the arrangements for budgetary control by Parliament; Motion for a resolution on compensation for victims of sodium valproate; Bill to regulate the 2018 budget. The meeting is adjourned.
