ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill to create a similar right for news agencies and press publishers (No. 1616, 1922).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u2	This morning, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr. Laurent Garcia has the floor. In the general debate, Mr. Laurent Garcia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u3	This morning we were able to taste with happiness the involvement and pugnacity of our colleague Richard Ramos, faithful to his desire to defend the rural environment and the pre-students. This afternoon we benefit from the same voluntarism, this time by President Patrick Mignola, concerning the neighboring right to the benefit of news agencies and publishers. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is particularly pleased to bring to the agenda of our Assembly a text which, in many respects, is of particular importance. First of all, we look forward to doing so on this day of celebration of Europe, a continent of democracy, solidarity and peace, in order to demonstrate, if necessary, our commitment to the construction of the European edifice, but also the strength of the EU when it is able to join forces for such important projects. The scope of the issue required a joint response. Indeed, this proposal for a law is the logical follow-up to the vote on the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on copyright in the digital single market, a vote which was the result of very long discussions and extensive exchanges. It was necessary for this directive to succeed, because we know how essential the subject of copyright is in the general architecture of the cultural world. It is therefore a pride for all of us, Europeans, and a special satisfaction for France, which has fought particularly to take the decision, especially through the action of Françoise Nyssen, who preceded you in this function, and of yourself, the Minister of Culture. Today we are discussing the transposition of Article 15 of the directive, which enshrines a similar right for publishers and news agencies. Our group had already proposed last year to anticipate the vote on the directive, considering that the recognition and application of such a right could not wait, for reasons which were, and still is, due to the very precarious situation of the press in the face of the upheaval caused by the arrival of digital players. We are pleased to note that a year later we have met very broadly to support this text and this transposition. This unit is necessary in order to deal with what has now been agreed to be called the "information media". Indeed, as we have pointed out in committee, it is essential to restore a democratic framework to these new practices: it is our responsibility as parliamentarians. Parliament's action has thus evolved around three axes. The first of these is tax liability, through consent to tax, the basis of the democratic contract, thanks to the initiative of the majority, which led to the creation of a tax on digital services. Secondly, criminal responsibility, which stems from the fact that everyone is responsible for what it disseminates, defined by the law of 22 December 2018, which aims to combat false information. Thirdly, solidarity, which must bind all actors in the same sector, ensured by fairness and justice. Equity and justice must define relations between journalists and publishers on the one hand, and dissemination platforms on the other. It is on this last point that this text is being considered. By taking up the initiative taken by our colleague David Assouline in the Senate, and by voting on this text today, we are taking a step ahead of transposition, which will ensure the extremely rapid entry into force of the neighbouring right, much awaited by the press in our country. The position of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is based on several principles. The first is the fidelity of the transposition of the Directive to ensure its soundness. As a result of the work in committee, the text has evolved to bring it closer to that goal. The second principle is that transposition should not be lost in technical details but should be left to use and, where appropriate, to case law to clarify what should be done. This position was discussed in committee to find out how far the legislator should go in defining the terms. We are pleased to see that we have been able to reach a balanced position on this subject. Third principle: transposition must provide creditors with sufficient support for negotiations with GAFAM – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft – to take place under fair conditions. We had already defended last year the idea of a grouping of publishers and news agencies into a collective management body, within the limits mentioned by the rapporteur. This is all the more necessary in view of the fact that previous attempts to establish a neighbouring right in European countries have always come up against this issue. Only a collective initiative can enable actors to reach critical size to negotiate with GAFAM. This grouping should increase, judging by similar initiatives launched throughout Europe and supported by the European institutions themselves. We are convinced that, after the German and Spanish examples, the press players have been able to draw the necessary conclusions and will be able to organise themselves. We have also clarified several issues throughout our committee discussions. This was the case, among other things, with regard to the period of protection of the neighbouring right of publishers and news agencies, reduced to two years to bring it closer to that provided for in the Directive. Similarly, the concept of a press publisher has been clarified, as well as the remuneration base, included in a broad meaning, including all press publications. Several colleagues have also tabled amendments aimed at increasing the transparency of online communication services to the public and of publishers and news agencies, which is essential for building trust among stakeholders. Transparency must overcome the difficulties encountered in the implementation of the neighbouring right. Several advances, to which the MODEM Group is of course in favour, still need to be made at the meeting, such as the definition of the concept of "very short extracts" or the inclusion of the "availability" of press publications by platforms in the context of remuneration. We hope that our discussions will help to resolve the doubts expressed in committee and to arrive at a text that will bring us together widely. We are convinced that this extremely important bill will contribute to the restoration of the balance of the press – which has long waited for the legislator to allow it to be paid precisely for the content it produces and which we all use daily. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] We know the prominent role that the press plays in our democratic contract. That is why every citizen must care about his or her state of health. It is about pluralism of opinion and the cultural and intellectual wealth of our country. These are very sufficient reasons to come together to support the transposition of the European Directive. We are, for our part, in favour of this and call on our colleagues to give massive support to the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u4	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u5	After several years of negotiations at both European and national level, we have gathered here today to establish a neighbouring right for the benefit of news agencies and publishers. Indeed, in the face of the increase in the illegal reproduction of content created and published by news agencies and publishers, it became absolutely necessary to intervene in order to guarantee every actor in this sector a fair remuneration for his work. By 2016, David Assouline, who was also rapporteur in the Senate for the text we are considering today, had had the foresight to address the subject, but his will could not be realized. Today, the European Union invites us to enshrine neighbouring law by adopting a law of transposition. The broad consensus reached at the Palais du Luxembourg should be emphasized. It would seem to me that it would be risky not to take care to preserve it. Publishers and news agencies are intimately linked; They share a common destiny. The creation of a neighbouring right for one cannot be conceived without its extension to the other, because it is indeed the whole press, the whole manufacturing chain, from the collection of information to its dissemination, which will thus be protected. It is our duty as parliamentarians and, more broadly, as elected representatives of the Republic, to protect certain actors in a sector when others are abhorrently abusing their dominant position. Finally, we must take full account of the terrible consequences that a lack of intervention on our part could have. It is now up to the National Assembly to bring its stone to the building by adopting this bill. The emergence of the web over the last 20 years has significantly changed access to journalistic content, consumer practices and the overall economy of the press chain. In this regard, it seems worth recalling that the economic situation of the print press is particularly alarming. While 7 billion newspapers were sold in 2009, this figure has fallen to less than 4 billion today. The turnover and advertising revenues of the same press decreased by more than 4.5% and 7.5% per year, respectively. At the same time, while the online advertising market in France is estimated at 3.5 billion euros, only Google and Facebook recover 2.4 billion euros without even producing articles or photos. With the development of the Internet shifting the sale of paper copies to digital, the GAFAM take advantage of this to capture an overwhelming share of the revenue generated. While publishing content generates wealth for platforms and their hosting companies, it also represents a considerable shortfall for the press sector. The whole value chain is under threat, be it agencies, publishers, journalists or merchants. Ladies and gentlemen, we can no longer accept that those who broadcast the content should be better paid than those who create them. Every month, news agencies produce about 160,000 dispatches, 1600 articles, 3000 infographics and 230,000 photos. The archives of the photographic agencies account for 54 million images, the oldest of which date back to 1855. This work is of absolute necessity in the context of the production of information, but is threatened by the advent of digital technology, the value created being unrivalled by platforms, content aggregators and search engines. Moreover, the weakening of the entire production chain poses a threat to pluralism and, consequently, to democracy. Alexis de Tocqueville noted in De la démocratie en Amérique: "The sovereignty of the people and freedom of the press... are entirely correlative". Democracy means giving citizens the right to vote, but also creating the context in which they can exercise their political judgment in an informed manner. Journalists, who are also destabilised by digital technology, nevertheless remain an eminent part of this production chain, one of the tasks of which is to report what is important, in a relevant and timely manner, for the benefit of all. This is what Julia Cadé recalls in her book Information at all costs shows that 19% of online documents are completely unoriginal, 37% are less than 20% and only 21% are completely original. A more equitable sharing of value between internet platforms, publishers and news agencies will promote the search for greater originality in content and stimulate the diversity of information. The creation of neighbouring rights for the benefit of news agencies and publishers will also allow these actors to negotiate licenses with search engines and social networks for the use of their production. It was high time to put an end to the spoliation of which they were victims. Thus, this bill presents itself not only as a means of regulating the overall economy of the press chain, but also as a tool to combat the all-power of the GAFAM. Among the measures that the Socialist and related groups will support in the examination of the articles, it seems particularly important to us to increase the duration of the property rights of photographic and audiovisual content to fifty years. This is a measure of common sense, since the photographic news agencies have based their economy on the continuous exploitation of the images produced. This is also why the Strategic Press Development Fund – FSDP – awards grants to these agencies to help them digitize their funds. These rich funds, in France, of more than 54 million images, represent a real heritage, exploitable by news agencies thanks to costly investments, both in terms of conservation, indexation and exploitation. For this reason, the term of protection must be considered in line with that of the audiovisual sector and should be extended to 50 years. Let us take a recent event as an example: the first newspaper article or the first dispatch about the fire of Notre-Dame Cathedral made a scoop, which, a few minutes – what do I say? a few seconds – later, it was no longer of commercial interest. On the contrary, the video of the fall of the arrow or the photo of Our Lady in flames will always have a heritage value – if I may say so – in twenty, thirty, forty or fifty years. Moreover, a photo is not up to date, on the contrary of the text, the protection of which is renewed as it is updated. The introduction of this measure will ensure that the author receives regular remuneration over time, a fair return. With regard to the definition of news agencies, the Socialist and Related Group considers it necessary to supplement the current definition with a part of Article 1 of the 1945 Ordinance on the regulation of news agencies. This definition specifies the journalistic nature of the work of news agencies, which is a criterion of assessment under the European Copyright Directive, and the commitment of the agency's responsibility on the criterion of the production of information. Finally, we decided to make a proposal concerning the very short extracts or snippets. The brevity of the information is what makes the information of the engines and aggregators attractive. These short quotations of a few words synthesize the bulk of the information, this conciseness of the text making precisely the value of the snippet. When a person only consults the snippet without clicking on the link to access the entire article, a significant amount of online audience is lost for publishers. Indeed, the production of information at a cost; However, the use of very short excerpts replacing the press publication itself or dispensing the reader from referring to it could affect the effectiveness of the neighbouring right. For more than thirty years now, France has been at the forefront of intellectual property, since it has devoted, in 1985, the existence of neighbouring rights for the benefit of performers, producers of phonograms and videograms, and audiovisual communication undertakings. Let us be proud of what we are about to achieve! Faced with the critical situation in which publishers, agencies, journalists and press photographers find themselves, we are about to ensure, thanks to this bill, not only the conditions necessary for the production of reliable and quality information, but also the rebalancing of a whole industry, ensuring fair remuneration for the various actors and promoting the survival of the traditional press against the Internet giants. This is legislation for the future, in the form of a victory for content creators and for all those who want a digital environment for the benefit of French and European citizens. [[Michèle Victory and Patrick Mignola applaud]] For all these reasons, the Socialist and Related Group is in favour of the adoption of this bill, to which it will propose several amendments designed to enrich it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u6	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u7	Today we are considering the proposal for a law creating a similar right for publishers and news agencies. This legislative instrument allows the transposition of Article 15 of the Copyright Directive, adopted by the European Parliament on 26 March. We look forward to its conclusion because, as has been said, this text was very much expected, especially since it had been under discussion since 2016. The creation of this right could only take place at Community level, given the scale of the problem. The Member States of the Union are all confronted with new uses and the breakdown of economic models in the press. We therefore welcome the fact that the European Union has been able to produce such a text, which will benefit the whole sector. It is a beautiful European victory, symbolic of which it is to discuss today, 9 May, Europe Day. The establishment of a similar right for publishers and news agencies has become an emergency, as the press sector has been undergoing a change in the value chain for several years, due in particular to the digital revolution. As you know, a press publisher has only two sources of revenue: the sale of newspapers and advertising. On the one hand, the sale of newspapers is constantly decreasing. While for more than 20 years the sale of newspapers had stabilized around €7 billion a year, sales have declined since 2009, with sales reaching less than €4 billion a year today. On the other hand, between 2016 and 2017, the share of the press advertising market decreased by 7.4%, while, at the same time, the share captured by the Internet increased by 12%. With the transposition of Article 15 of the Directive, it is therefore a matter of accompanying publishers and news agencies in their adaptation to digital and new uses. Indeed, they have measured the transformation and embarked on the digital transition of their model, so much so that the sale of digital formats almost offset the decrease in the sale of paper formats. But, as everyone knows, the digital press is far less rewarding than the paper press. The neighbouring right has already been granted since 1985 to natural or legal persons such as performers, producers of phonograms and videograms, and audiovisual communication undertakings. As such, it pays for human, financial and technological investments in these sectors. The context we have described required the establishment of this economic right for the benefit of news agencies and publishers. Finally, this enshrines the role played by neighbouring law in safeguarding property rights. In this connection, we welcome the fact that the committee has clarified the definition of the press publisher by referring to the law of 1 August 1986 on the reform of the legal regime for the press – we had also tabled an amendment to that effect. The establishment of a neighbouring right implies that the right to authorise and prohibit is remunerated in a fair manner. This ability for the publisher and the news agency to authorise or prohibit is fundamental, in that it allows for balanced partnerships, particularly with digital platforms, and a better sharing of the value produced. But it was also necessary to strengthen its economic counterpart. The provisions of this text thus enshrine the neighboring right of copyright, but also the effectiveness of this right, by the possibility of entrusting its administration to a collective management system, a system similar to that of other sectors. With neighbouring law, publishers and news agencies, thanks to the balance that allows the protection of their property rights, will finally be able to start cooperation on a sound basis with online platforms using their content. This cooperation can flourish beyond the mere remuneration of the use of content, by entering into partnerships, in particular on data exchange, in a "win-win" relationship. We therefore welcome the debates in committee, which have enriched this text, and we are confident that the debates in the House will be equally fruitful. To this end, we will defend two amendments aimed at introducing the provision of press publications in the remuneration due under neighbouring rights. Indeed, the current wording of article 3, paragraph 11, includes only the reproduction and communication to the public of press publications. We fear that webcrawling – or permanent web exploration – will pass between the meshes of the net. Crawlers index press content, sometimes archive it, and then distribute it to their own customers in the form of structured press panoramas. This phenomenon destroys value since it does not return it to the publisher's website or pay it for the use of its publications. Crawling is an expanding market, which represents several tens of millions of euros in the sale of press panoramas. Therefore, if we want to establish an effective neighbouring right in safeguarding the property rights of publishers and news agencies, we should take into account, in the legislation, the availability of press publications that are at the heart of certain business models of the future. There are still a few points in committee, Mr rapporteur, which you have undertaken to clarify. With a view to a fairer distribution of the value produced, it should be recalled that the press publisher is not only responsible for publishing content, but is responsible for all the production operations of a newspaper. The press publisher must change its economic model and, to do so, develop a strategy that requires long-term investment. As in any economic model, such risk-taking is sustainable only if value-sharing is fair and the neighbouring right takes human, technological and financial investments into account at their fair value. These notions must be recalled, as must the place of the journalist and the place of the political and general news media, ensuring, however, that no type of press, type of publications – written press, text or photography – or type of agency can be excluded from the scheme; On the contrary, these players must benefit from the negotiating capacity of those who weigh the heaviest. Finally, it is essential to provide for a mechanism in the event of a lack of agreement between the parties. I have no doubt that our debates in the Chamber will allow us to find the right wording. We will also have to address the issue of exceptions to neighbouring law. As such, I am confident that our discussions can shed light on how to approach the notion of "the use of isolated words or very short excerpts from a press publication", without, however, leading to a definition that could prove to be counterproductive in practice. Finally, while we are pleased that the directive has been adopted after so much waiting and that the transposition of Article 15 can take place as soon as possible, we would like to draw the Government's attention to the fact that there is also an urgent need to adopt all the provisions of the copyright directive. We were surprised by the Government's desire to introduce at the last moment, through this legislative vehicle, a provision allowing compliance with the regulations establishing rules on the exercise of copyright and related rights applicable to certain online broadcasts of television and radio broadcasting organizations and retransmissions, or CabSat regulations. This provision was rejected, as it was a legislative horseman. However, this shows that there is an urgent need. No one would understand that the Government does not have the same speed of adopting all the provisions of the Copyright Directive, as well as transposing the Audiovisual Media Service Directive or the "SMA" Directive. This split into slices, without a timetable, is legitimately worrying, but, Minister, I think you will reassure us on this subject. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group – Ms Constance Le Grip also applauds]] Our group is, of course, looking favourably at your proposal for a law, Mr rapporteur. It is expected to contribute to a fairer and more equitable distribution of the wealth produced in the press sector. We can only welcome your commitment to this text, as well as the spirit of openness and listening that you have shown during our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u8	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u9	Mr rapporteur, you defended the principle of this text in committee before the European Parliament adopted what became Article 15 of the Copyright Directive. You proposed creating a neighbouring right for the benefit of news agencies and publishers. Your goal was to ensure better remuneration for content publishers in order to restore a more balanced balance of power between the media and the GAFAs. We have two concerns, which have not been raised during debate in the Senate or in committee. They even increased after the vote on the European directive. The first concerns the share of the remuneration that will go to the journalists, which we want to make and ensure. The second concerns the power to select the information given to the platforms, which we wish to limit and supervised by safeguards. I would like to recall that the authors of the content disseminated by the GAFA are journalists. It is legitimate for them to receive a significant proportion of the revenue generated by content of which they are the creators. It is therefore normal for them to be the first beneficiaries of the scheme that you wish to set up, Mr rapporteur. Without them, no value gap to share. The precariousness of journalists is growing. It is especially evident in the digital editorials – Europe 1 went on strike just a month ago, regretting a situation "worrying" for journalists, in which "14 of them, or about half of them, are in fact unduly employed as freelancers while they have been working permanently for several years". We must fight against the precarization of the profession of journalist. "The remuneration due for the reproduction and representation of press publications in digital form" must be borne by journalists in a significant proportion. Article 3 of your bill provides that they receive a share of remuneration determined by company agreements. However, you do not set a minimum threshold – 20, 30 or 50%. We will therefore defend an amendment aimed at introducing into the text the assurance of a significant remuneration for journalists. In addition, one of the provisions of Article 3 states: "This remuneration... is not salary". This means that it will not be taken into account in calculating the retirement and unemployment benefits of journalists. This is an infringement of the legitimate social rights that they could claim on the basis of this remuneration. We strongly oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u10	What about copyright?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u11	The other concern of the La France group about your text is the power to select information given to digital platforms. Moreover, we are not the only ones who have doubts about this. Last September, journalist Sylvain Rolland was concerned that such a measure would only be effective in the "short term" and that it would end up "strengthening the GAFA", stating that "imposeing the Net giants to pay a fee to the media in order to be able to post excerpts and links could have the perverse effect of strengthening the "platformization"... around the GAFAs. If the EU requires them to pay a fee to be able to use links to media sites, why not try to host content themselves? This is already Facebook's approach with Instant Articles, for example, and it could quickly deploy." Some experts believe that the compensation mechanism could even become obsolete very quickly. This is the case with Guillaume Champeau, a specialist in digital ethics. He questions: "Do you believe that Google and Facebook will agree to pay the press publishers to have the right to send their users back to their homes? That would be total nonsense. The text will only convince them [...] to force press publishers to host their content directly on Google, Apple and Facebook platforms. Not only will Google avoid paying, but it will ask press publishers to pay for it to benefit from the hosting service. Will the press have another possible choice when it is already very often dependent on the traffic brought by these platforms, and the emergence of alternative platforms is killed in the egg by costs that many will surely judge insurmountable? » In addition to the financial aspect, the independence of the media from the platforms is at stake. It is not guaranteed by this bill. The La Quadrature du Net association deplores this. In a press release, she said: "[Press publishers] now demand that Facebook and Google finance them by paying them for each quote on their service. But when the income of the World or Figaro depends on the income of Google or Facebook, how long can we read in these newspapers reviews of these giants? Rather than adapting, press publishers prefer to give up their independence entirely." It is true that the creation of a financial dependency between digital platforms and web giants risks penalizing some media. This has been observed in Spain, where Parliament has adopted similar provisions, transposing Article 15 of the Copyright Directive. Immediately, Google News suspended its broadcast in that country, seriously undermining the influence of the Spanish media. We must transform the economic model of the media at all. He's very fragile. It is therefore necessary to find a way to finance the media permanently, independently of the platforms and by ensuring that GAFAs cannot interfere in the choice of broadcast content. L'Express's Deputy Director, Éric Mettout, is making an interesting critique of how the media are unable to finance themselves otherwise and improve their independence. He says: "These big media [...] are going through an economic crisis, but also [...] existential: if you buy them less, you read them less; If we read them less, it is because their readers, the younger ones first, are now going to look for information elsewhere. [...] For "good" reasons, from the point of view of the readers who abandoned them: the newspapers no longer satisfy their need for completeness, novelty and interactivity, they are questionable and contested, why would they be believed, and why would they pay for not believing them? Before calling for the support of European technocrats, it is to these questions that the press should strive to answer – and that it does not answer, or wrong". These contributions tell us that there is a real risk that platforms will eventually have the power to select exorbitant information. We therefore proposed amending the text in order to ensure respect for the principle of Net Neutrality. To this end, platforms would be subject to new obligations regarding plurality of opinion, cultural diversity, the absence of discrimination between forms of expression and shared content, as well as between economic conditions for access to platforms, and the establishment of conditions for interoperability with optimal platforms. Without these safeguards, we run the risk of a GAFA hegemony regarding the choice of content. We cannot accept it. The presidential majority prides itself on a merciless struggle against the GAFAs. However, both from a fiscal point of view and from the point of view of media independence from platforms – especially online – the account is not there at all. We will therefore propose to improve the text by means of our amendments, which will make it consistent with the arguments I have just developed. If the bill were to remain unchanged, the La France group would vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u12	We will strive to improve it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u13	Mrs Fannette Charvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u14	A year ago, almost to the day, we were gathered in this Chamber to discuss a bill to create a similar right for online news publishers. At that time, we were almost unanimous in recognizing its importance in enabling them to compensate for the loss of value caused by search engines and content aggregators, who reproduce and distribute millions of texts, photographs and videographs on their own pages as rights-free, causing considerable damage to the publishers and news agencies that own them, as well as to their authors. Mr rapporteur – dear Patrick – you were – already! – rapporteur of the text. I can only salute your work, your tenacity and your perseverance. In accordance with the opinion of the Ministry of Culture and Communication, our group then defended a motion for referral back to committee, in order to give the European bodies time to legislate on a scale that we felt was more relevant, with a view to reaching a common legal framework for all Member States that would enable them to weigh more heavily on digital giants. Many comments have already been made in the context of the general discussion. On this day of Europe, I would like to refer to the European initiative. The digital revolution and the development of digital practices are questioning our society. The digital revolution and the development of digital practices also question our right. In response to these questions, particularly regarding cultural creation, the European Commission published in September 2016 a proposal for a directive on copyright in the digital single market. After months of procrastination in the Council of the European Union and in the committees of the European Parliament, it was finally adopted on 15 April. It contains three fundamental provisions: strengthening the capacity of creators to be remunerated by digital platforms exploiting their works, in order to improve value-sharing; the right to fair and proportionate remuneration for creators; and the creation of a similar right for publishers and news agencies. Even if this text does not regulate everything, even if we could have hoped that it would go further on certain aspects, we must welcome its adoption and its favourable consequences for European cultural industries and the media. The adoption of the Directive is the result of an economic struggle in favour of fair remuneration for creators for each use of their works online. Beyond these economic considerations, it was also a decisive fight for cultural diversity, for media pluralism and for the independence of the press, and, more generally, for Europe's sovereignty. The stakes in digital regulation are simple: to remain in control of our destiny and to govern algorithms before they govern us. The new European rules have come into being thanks in particular to the role played by our country in the negotiations. I would like to pay tribute to the intense work done by you, the Minister of Culture and Communication, and by your predecessor, as well as by all the actors who have mobilized for its adoption. More generally, it represents the victory of Europe, of a Europe that manages to overcome its divisions in favour of the common interest; of a Europe that makes its motto resonate – "united in diversity" – at the time of the rise of populism and Euroscepticism. The idea is not to flatten our differences by destroying our national identities, but to form a coherent whole – to be more resilient – and organized from its diversity – and not against it. It represents the victory of a Europe that exists and of which – unfortunately – too little is praised. For decades, the political class has tended to defeat the European Union to make up for its own shortcomings. However, the European Union is not a supervisory structure that would take the decisions in our place. It is only a reflection, indeed after consensus, of the will of the States making up it. On 9 May, Europe Day commemorates the declaration delivered in 1950 by Robert Schuman, considered the founding text of the European integration process. Let us recall his words: "Europe will not be made at once, nor in an overall construction: it will be achieved through concrete achievements that will first create de facto solidarity". The European Copyright Directive in the Digital Single Market is one of these concrete achievements contributing to the European edifice. It is now up to us to transpose its provisions into our legislation. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] With this bill, we can do so quickly with respect to articles related to news agencies and publishers. I am pleased that it was adopted unanimously in committee. I hope the same goes for today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u15	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u16	On 15 April, the Member States of the European Union formally adopted a new Copyright Directive, following lengthy and complex negotiations. Of course, unanimity has not been achieved, but we can be pleased to have reached an agreement, as well as the major role played by France in this success. The main challenge now lies in the transposition of the Directive into the national law of each Member State. It is up to Parliament – as well as you, Minister – to do everything possible to ensure that France has particularly ambitious legislation on copyright protection. With this in mind, the Libertés et Territoires Group can only welcome the fact that the legislator is taking the initiative to defend the interests of news agencies and publishers against digital giants, through the bill tabled in the Senate by the Socialist and Republican Group, and defended today by the MODEM and related group. I would like to pay tribute to the long-standing struggle of our rapporteur, Patrick Mignola, who, just a year ago, was defending a similar bill in this House. In our view, two imperatives must guide our legislative work. National transposition must be as close as possible to the European directive: the long negotiations – almost three years! – which have led to a Europe agreement must not be in vain, and we must achieve effective legislation. And our national response must be part of a logic of European harmonisation: it seems unthinkable to legislate on this issue in isolation, without taking into account our partners, especially in view of the power of transnational companies faced by news agencies and press publishers. In essence, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of this bill to protect the press from the capture of its revenues by the web giants – and thus to protect freedom of the press. This has already been said: the advent of the Internet, digital platforms and social networks has profoundly disrupted our relationship to the press and the media; In particular, the free and almost instantaneous distribution of press publications unfortunately prevents their authors from asserting their rights to fair remuneration and, more generally, to recognition of their work. However, digitalization and the exponential dissemination of works on the Internet generate significant revenues for large broadcasting platforms. The challenge now is to allow content creators to receive a greater proportion of the income from the distribution of their productions and works. Beyond the principle of fair remuneration, beyond the reaffirmation of the principle of literary and artistic intellectual property, it is the very survival of the press that is discussed here. Indeed, these platforms, these "infomediaries" that place themselves between information producers and Internet users, profit greatly from the content they do not produce, and from which they do not bear the burdens. In doing so, the web giants of Google, Facebook and Twitter threaten our national and local media, as well as news agencies and publishers, who invest considerable resources in the service of information, and who employ journalists as well as photographers and many other actors. In this sense, our work is ultimately a continuation of the bill to create a digital services tax, which we recently discussed, and which our group supported. To create a similar right to the benefit of publishers and news agencies is to grant them the right to authorize, whether for remuneration or not, or to prohibit any reproduction or communication of their press publications in digital form by an online public communication service. It is also working towards a more balanced sharing of the value created by the dissemination of information on the Internet. Today, news agencies and publishers lack effective leverage to enforce these rights. The Libertés et Territoires Group therefore endorses the objective of this text; We share the will of its authors to strengthen the power and tools of these actors, especially in the face of the giants of the GAFAM. Collective management, like what is practiced in the musical field with SACEM for example, seems to be an appropriate response: this common practice has shown its effectiveness. Such a system would allow news agencies and publishers to entrust the administration of their rights to organizations to negotiate user authorizations, collect fees and redistribute them. The answer proposed by the text seems to us to be in the right direction, and our group will therefore support this initiative. We also welcome the progress made in committee: I am thinking mainly of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur and indeed co-signed by my colleagues Sylvia Pinel and Jeanine Dubie. Among other things, they have made it possible to clarify the definition of press publishers. We also felt it necessary to clarify that hyperlinks and very short extracts are excluded from neighbouring law, although this issue is actually complex. We understand the rapporteur's desire not to give these famous snippets a definition fixed in the law, at the risk of penalising press publishers in the end. However, we agree with you on the need to insist on a qualitative, not a quantitative, assessment of these "very short extracts". Further improvements are still possible. That is why our group will support the amendment tabled to set up an ad hoc committee to take a decision in the event that press publishers and platforms fail to reach agreement. However, questions and doubts persist, and I hope that our discussions today will clarify them. First of all, they concern the duration of neighbouring rights. This subject has been particularly important for the discussions. Whereas it was initially set at five years, you have chosen in committee to reduce it to two years, in order to align yourself with the European directive. But how can we be sure that this will be enough? Traditionally, the duration of the property rights of holders of neighbouring rights is fifty years, but we understand that the obsolescence of news articles is faster. However, what about photographs, for example, whose ephemeral character is much less obvious? In addition, the rapporteur in the Senate expressed the risk that membership in agencies and publishers might be optional. The latter will be able to give up their content free of charge in order to benefit from a more favourable and therefore more remunerative search engine on the platforms: is there not a risk that the law will ultimately have the opposite effect to that sought? The last subject concerns remuneration and redistribution. On the one hand, how can we ensure the effective redistribution of royalties received by collective management bodies? On the other hand, the text does not say anything about remuneration, the scale of which and the methods of payment of which are fixed by agreement. We welcome the amendment adopted in committee which states that remuneration is based on the revenue of exploitation of any kind, direct or indirect. But more needs to be done by specifying certain criteria for determining fair remuneration. I am thinking, for example, of criteria such as the means invested, the contribution to the public debate and the audience. This would be to highlight the political and general news media, and thus to value the press that invests and defends democracy. It's essential. I hope that the Government will be in favour of such a development, and our group will pay particular attention to your response on this point, Minister. Behind the economic survival of the press and journalists, there is no need to remind you that there is obviously a question of freedom of the press, pluralism of the media, and consequently of our democracy and European democracies. Apart from these few questions on specific points, this bill is therefore generally in the right direction, and our group is in favour of it. However, we must bear in mind that the national transposition of the European directive, which is at stake in the establishment of a coherent and solid digital single market, will take place in several stages. Today we have the opportunity to achieve the first of these: that of neighbouring rights for news agencies and publishers. [[Applause on the benches of the LT Group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] But everything is obviously not settled. The Liberties and Territories Group will pay particular attention to the reform of the public audiovisual sector, which is to be presented this summer, and which should contain other provisions of the European Copyright Directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u17	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u18	While the press is a democratic necessity, its economic model has been in crisis for several years, under the influence of the digital revolution. In the face of an abundance of information instantly available on the Internet, the sector has seen its paper sales decline by 40% in ten years. In the face of this change in usage, press publishers have sought to adapt and have developed digital offerings; Between 2016 and 2017, digital media grew by almost 50%. This increase may be encouraging, but it must be noted that these developments are insufficient to ensure the viability of newspapers and periodicals. For if consumers have been able to move towards digital technology, this is not the case with advertising investments; More specifically, they have shifted to digital, but not to the digital media of the media: content aggregators and social networks now capture most of the advertising revenues. In five years, the press has lost 71% of its advertising revenue to the GAFAM, which attracts investors thanks to their user flows and their very precise targeting capacity. The imbalance doesn't stop there. It even becomes paradoxical when we see that digital platforms create traffic, therefore value, from content produced by news agencies and publishers, without paying them any remuneration! GAFAMs make images available to their users, with a few lines summarizing a press article – which will very often be enough for the Internet user. But not only are these short summaries sometimes misleadingly truncate the information, but they also cause significant property damage to the agencies and publishers that own the content. It is the entire information production chain that is now weakened. But we know that a weakened press means a more fragile democracy. We must therefore act to give the press its full weight, and to allow for a better sharing of value on the Internet. A year ago, you called our attention, Mr rapporteur, to this injustice. We then chose to give the European bodies time to legislate before transposing the decisions taken into our law. For without Europe, we are not in a position to establish a fair balance of power in the face of the power of the GAFAMs. The misguided experiences of national legislation in Germany and Spain have revealed the need for collective action. On 15 April, the Copyright Directive was finally adopted by the Member States after three years of debate. This directive adapts copyright to the digital revolution; It allows content producers to obtain fair remuneration for the use of their works on digital platforms. Finally, the directive introduces a similar right to the benefit of news agencies and press publishers. It is this provision that the purpose of this bill is to transpose into our positive law. This will promote its rapid application and will once again make France, the home of Beaumarchais, the spearhead of copyright. But the process does not stop at the vote on this bill. The upcoming negotiations between press publishers and Google or Facebook are expected to be difficult. This provides that right holders "may entrust the management of their rights to one or more collective management bodies". This is only a possibility; Each publisher will be able to choose a direct dialogue with digital platforms. But I doubt the effectiveness of such a strategy: union is the strength. We have united at European level, despite, or for, our differences. "Delivering as one in diversity" is the motto of the European Union; This will also have to be the motto of news agencies and publishers in order to fully benefit from the opportunities offered to them by this law. The neighbouring copyright law for the benefit of news agencies and publishers was created through dialogue with our European neighbours; Other rights will arise from this process, because beyond sharing value on the Internet, what unites us is the creation of value for Europeans and the world, in accordance with our European values. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As we approach the European elections on 26 May, this 9 May, European Day, we must bear in mind the need to act together with our European neighbours. Europe is an opportunity, this bill is a demonstration of this. And it is with enthusiasm that I propose to adopt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u19	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u20	We are therefore debating today, at the initiative of the MODEM Group – a very widely supported initiative in this House – a bill creating a neighbouring right for publishers and news agencies. This bill – defended in the Senate by David Assouline, who was still sitting in the stands of this House this morning – was adopted almost unanimously by the High Assembly; It is the appropriate legislative vehicle for the speedy transposition of Article 15 of the revised European Copyright Directive into the Digital Single Market, which has just been definitively adopted after several years of laborious and complex negotiations within the European institutions. As a Member of the European Parliament who is a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I was able to make my modest but determined contribution to these lengthy discussions. I had the opportunity to say this last year: the original Article 11 of the proposal for a directive was far from giving rise to an excessive enthusiasm, and it was necessary to fight to keep it in the text, and to plead at length for the validity of the creation of this neighbouring right. In this moment of general mobilization, we have both been led to take positions on this subject often – and in a very loud way. That is to say, in what constructive and cooperative spirit the group The Republicans addressed this subject and took their full part in the work of very faithful transposition of Article 15 of the revised European Directive. I will not go back in detail to an episode that we continue to find unfortunate – the referral of the first bill presented by our rapporteur to committee, voted by the Republic on the move. At the time, the Group of the Republicans had defended the relevance of the creation of neighbouring law and supported the rapporteur's initiative, whose stubbornness and consistency in this fight I welcome. We then described the creation of this neighbouring right as an economic and democratic emergency. We maintain this analysis. The key role of a free, independent, pluralistic and economically viable press in the good health of public debate and our democracies is never enough to be said. One of the major challenges facing the press today is the massive and systematic use of journalistic content by some information aggregators, without remuneration or prior authorisation. This practice has a very serious impact on online press coverage, content sales and advertising revenues. It is therefore the entire architecture of the financing of the press – publishers and agencies – that is put in jeopardy. In a media landscape revolutionized by the burgeoning eruption of Internet giants, who do not respect the rules for others and capture almost all the value created, it is urgent to provide the press with the means of its economic development and independence. The aim of establishing a neighbouring right to pay for the distribution of content online is therefore to rebalance the power relations between platforms and content producers, whether they are publishers or news agencies. The latter must be able to finance the important investments necessary to continue to provide quality content and to pay reliable professional journalists, whose role is essential to refute infox and other manipulations of false information or to do fact checking, both during and outside elections. Press publishers must also have the means to adapt to the digital world, which they have been working on for a long time with innovation. The European directive creating the neighbouring right is welcome. Especially on this day of Europe, we are pleased to be engaged in this first transposition exercise made possible by the work of the Senate and by the determination of our rapporteur, whom the Republicans Group has been keen to encourage and accompany. Not all debates on this bill have been closed in committee. We will therefore defend a few amendments, in particular on limiting the exceptions for hyperlinks, on the basis of the neighbouring right, and on the starting point of the time limit for the protection of rights. I will also introduce an amendment on something that is of particular interest to us. Since we have come together to transpose an important part of the copyright directive, but only part of it, we propose, perhaps imperfectly but with unwavering determination, to transpose Article 17 on copyright, which obliges providers of online content sharing services to pay those who produce cultural content as soon as they make it available to the public. This morning, Minister Jacqueline Gourault, who was speaking on behalf of the Government in your absence, Minister Gourault reiterated the commitment to speedily implement the public audiovisual bill. However, the timetable for the review of this text raises some doubts as to the speed of the process. However, the transposition of Article 17 seems to us to be just as urgent as that of Article 15. I stress the need to do so without waiting for another legislative vehicle that can take us to distant times. The Government itself seemed aware of the need to move quickly as it had tried to include part of the CabSat regulation in this bill. In order to defend the creation, cultural diversity and a certain idea of Europe, the greatness and European civilization, there is an urgent need to move forward both on neighbouring rights – that is what we are doing today – and on other aspects of copyright, in particular on the principle of fair remuneration for artists and creators. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and MODEM groups]] Nevertheless, the Republican Group is supporting the creation of a neighbouring right for publishers and news agencies, as we did a year ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u21	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u22	Almost a year ago to the day, we were present in this same place to discuss the bill of our colleague Patrick Mignola aimed at creating a neighbouring right for the benefit of online press publishers. The rapporteur had rightly alerted us to the urgent need to act to save the press sector. We all endorsed this observation: the press is in danger, the platforms cannibalized the value created by the media and the remuneration of the content is no longer assured. It is now the remuneration of the shell that takes precedence over the remuneration of its content. Today, press publishers capture only 13% of the total value created by the French market of the day before and content aggregators on the Internet. Yet the news media now covers almost 90% of the French population over the age of 15. It represents a monthly audience of 46.6 million readers. Ensuring the economic balance of the press sector is a guarantee of freedom of expression. Aware of the urgency but also of the failures of isolated initiatives, as was the case in Spain or Germany, we have committed ourselves with determination to the European path. France has been the driving force behind the Copyright Directive. Today we can pay tribute to the work of our ministers, Françoise Nyssen, and then Franck Riester, who carried out intensive diplomatic activity in Brussels and Strasbourg to reach the adoption of this directive by the European Parliament on 26 March 2019, and by the Council of the European Union on 15 April 2019. In the face of digital giants, the neighbouring right must be built at European level. From now on, the media will be paid for the re-use of their editorial production by news aggregators. Revenues generated can be shared between publishers and journalists. Both the adoption of the directive and the transposition that we are going to carry out today are structuring for freedom of the press. The information factory has a cost. The free flow of information is a myth, the press needs its own resources to guarantee its independence, its dynamism, and its freedom. There is an urgent need to legislate to rebalance value-sharing. At the time of social networks, false information and attempts at foreign interference, having a solid professional press is a democratic imperative; a press that can analyze the information, verify the facts, decrypt it and place it in their context. Voltaire already described the consequences of the disappearance of the protection of this freedom. What applies to the authors is also true of the press: "Honest freedom raises the mind, and slavery makes it crawl. If there had been a literary inquisition in Rome, today we would not have had Horace, Juvenal, or Cicero's philosophical works. If Milton, Dryden, Pope and Locke had not been free, England would not have had poets or philosophers. » We are about to consider a text whose objectives we share. The debates in committee have demonstrated our unanimous commitment to the protection of the press. This text will ensure better protection of press content, as is already the case for other sectors of the cultural industries and the development of press structures and products, protecting both human and financial investments. In the course of committee work, we felt that transparency was essential. For several years now, we have seen the ability of platforms to free themselves from the rules and to exercise some discretion with regard to the reporting of encrypted data about their activities. In order for this law to be effective, we have strengthened its binding nature by devoting to it the necessary transparency that the platforms will have to demonstrate in the use of content. I think it's important to have a check on it. We will discuss this during the discussion of the text. When it comes to guaranteeing the independence of the press, the statements made by Victor Hugo in 1848, in his speech to the Constituent Assembly of the Second Republic, are of a vibrating topicality: "the principle of freedom of the press is no less essential, is no less sacred than the principle of universal suffrage. These are both sides of the same fact. These two principles are called and mutually complementary. Freedom of the press alongside universal suffrage is the thought of everyone enlightening the government of all. Trying one is waiting for the other. These strong words support us in our struggle for more than a year, all mobilized, parliamentarians and Government, to ensure the future of an independent press, the cornerstone of our democracy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] On this day of Europe, he is pleased to show that the fight for a Europe that protects is lost only when it is not carried out. He was led, and here he was won.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u23	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u24	While we examined a similar text a year ago, the bill before us was passed by the Senate. It aims to give online news publishers and news agencies a similar right in order to give them the opportunity to be remunerated when the content they produce is reused online. This long-standing request from some publishers resulted in a European directive being voted on in March 2019. Last year, I already considered that there was no problem to consider and even adopt a text before the vote on the European directive. This bill should not put forward any more. The old practice of copyright has to be renewed: the conditions for creation, circulation and remuneration have been disrupted by digital technology, for the best and, sometimes, for the worst. We are pleased that the national representation is taking up the issue of the vampirisation of online press content by the GAFAMs. Facebook like Google have in fact become the main intermediaries between the public and information. Internet users learn first and foremost through social networks. Made up of oligopoly, the GAFAMs shape the idea of the world. Between two-thirds and three-quarters of visitors to information sites access them via Google and Facebook. These multinationals filter information, deciding what will or will not be visible in the digital public space. As a result, content producers and press publishers are relegated to the background behind the info media, becoming extremely dependent on the search engine. If nothing is done to protect online publishers and the entire information production chain, it is the Facebook-Google duopoly that will eventually create public opinion, relegating content producers and press publishers to the background. However, as I have already outlined in my discussion of the first version of the text, this bill has, in our view, several limitations and certain risks. First, this law may constitute a danger to the rights to information and freedom of expression, the right to sharing and hypertext link. Network neutrality is a vital principle for freedom of expression; It must now be understood as a requirement against the progressive privatisation of the Internet. Article 1a, which my colleagues have widely mentioned, allows "hyperlinking acts" without defining them. Such drafting, which is a source of uncertainty, can constitute a real infringement of the freedom of the Internet. Being at the heart of this freedom, real or potential, the notion of hyperlink must, in fact, be used with the utmost caution. The second limitation of the text is the strengthening of the relationship between the media and online press publishers, the first consequence of which would be the alteration of the quality of the information. This link could create the main risk of what appears to be a short-term victory of the European directive voted earlier. Click-on remuneration will encourage online press publishers to focus on quantity over quality, which will have a serious impact on the SEO of background articles. This phenomenon, which is already old, is likely to increase. We already know that the more a site creates content, that is, it produces a large number of articles, the more the engine will enhance it. An editorial that produces little, but not necessarily less quality articles, will be less visible. With the neighbouring right, she will be paid less. In our view, this is an incentive to produce more and more, but not necessarily better, and to abandon analysis and reporting while favouring sticking, i.e. the resumption of very slightly rewritten dispatches. As I said in committee a few weeks ago, writing 2000 signs in five minutes can become the standard of quality – all those who like to read and write have reason to wonder about the evolution of the standard... In a way, the concept of neighbouring law sanctuates investment for the benefit of intellectual property. It gives GAFAM a new lever of direct economic influence, and creates a new revenue line, this time guaranteed by law. In addition, this will penalize small press publishers, who will not have the financial means and the same weight as the most recognized publishers to negotiate a fair deal with the GAFAs. The cost of implementing this new license can be high and therefore inaccessible to smaller players. This undermines the pluralism of information, which is defined not only by differences in opinion or content, but also by differences in scale and size. Only large publishers will be able to finance a license. It seems to us that the fight against GAFA must take place in the field of tax fairness in relation to our businesses. GAFAM alone weighs close to $300 billion on the stock exchange, making it a power comparable to states. This tax fairness would make it possible to consider better support for the press. We must also demand greater transparency on their practices, whether it be the functioning of algorithms and their services, or those aimed at respecting competition. Currently, algorithms that refer to press content take into account audience issues, which in fact favour free models funded by advertising. Algorithms must be designed so as not to introduce bias that discriminates a type of press according to the financing model it has chosen. Finally, the third and not the least limit, in our view, lies in the collection and redistribution of income generated by this neighbouring right. Here we convey the concerns raised by the Independent Online Information Press Union – SPIIL – about the nature of the future management body, including its organisation and governance. When it comes to transposing a directive on copyright or neighbouring law, listening to the smallest actors, listening to them, is of particular importance. A fair representation of all press publishers and full transparency on the collection and distribution of rights is essential, otherwise this new right would be nothing more than a new rent for a minority of media that already receives most of the press aid. The collection arrangements must ensure that the existing oligopoly on content is not strengthened. This, in our view, is a strong democratic issue. In addition, article 3 states that journalists "have the right to a share of the remuneration" which will be negotiated through a company agreement or collective agreement. This imprecise wording does not guarantee access to fair remuneration for their production. The expression "appropriate and fair" added in committee certainly poses a guard, but does not ensure a fixed and well-distributed reverse, in the face of the precariousness of journalists, who, in most cases, are paid for on the pige. Moreover, this remuneration will not be taken into account in the journalist's salary: unemployment benefits and the calculation of retirement points will not take into account this new income line. This adds precariousness to an already very precarious job. This may also call into question the provisions of the Hadopi Act, which has determined a balance between journalists' rights and the economic demands of publishers. If the measure were to pass, what would it be like to share the remuneration? This is therefore a twofold concern: for the authors, whether their remuneration would fall proportionately; Would the new remuneration not oblige the public to create a cost, in return for the provision of the information media? In a deeply transformed media landscape, all the press players are calling for a major reform of the press and communication. They see it only in small pieces of new measures, without seeing the legislative changes that this new digital world could bring about. Information must be conceived as a common and pluralistic service. It is high time to reform the archaic and unequal system of state aid to the press, which still today does not include or few include aid to the online press. Pluralism of information cannot be limited to the distinction between media. The challenge in this multi-faceted digital revolution is to seize it, to participate in it, not to undergo it. As you will understand, this bill seems to us to lack important safeguards. There is no mention of the general political news press – but I have mentioned many other shortcomings. This text, I have endeavoured to present its limitations, recognizing the broad consensus it generated. It seems to me that if we want too much unanimity to say how wonderful Europe is, we are showing a certain naivety. As far as I am concerned, the limits and safeguards that are missing prompt me not to vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u25	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u26	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill. On Amendment No 20 and on Article 1a, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u27	I have before me two amendments, Nos 10 and 20, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u28	It aims to clarify the limitations on the benefit of the neighbouring right for hyperlinks and very short extracts. According to recital 58 of the European Directive, "the exclusion of very short extracts should be interpreted in such a way as not to affect the effectiveness of the rights provided for in this Directive". It is therefore necessary to clarify the cases in which this effectiveness of the rights could be affected, adding in Article 1e ra that "this effectiveness is affected in particular when the use of hyperlinks or very short extracts replaces the publication of the press itself or exempts the reader from referring to it". This addition seems to us to be a solution to the somewhat laborious semantic debate in which we had lost some time in committee, starting to estimate the number of words to be presented by a very short excerpt or the possible presence of photographs. Building on the effectiveness of rights and the assumptions that might affect it would provide an effective solution that could bring us together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u29	Mr Mignola, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u30	The objective is, of course, the right one: it must not be possible to limit the use of very short extracts in any way at a time when a neighbouring right is being voted on. This is the meaning of the two amendments under joint discussion – that of Mrs Tolmont will be presented later – which state that a hyperlink, isolated words or a short excerpt cannot in any way sum up a press article or even dispense with its reading. If that were the case, we would not even need to meet today to vote for a neighbouring right. With the double limitation set by Amendment No 10 – that of the very short extract and that of the hyperlink – the risk is to suggest that the hyperlink alone could be something other than a URL to an arrival page. This comment responds in part to what Elsa Faucillon said at the moment in the general discussion. The URL remains a technical element allowing this freedom offered by the Internet to win a page. In no case could it include many words, a summary of an article or a teasing-type hook. The two amendments therefore have the same objectives, but the legislator we are must focus on the notion of "very short extracts", leaving the hyperlink to its technical field. I therefore suggest that we adopt Mrs Tolmont's next amendment, which would satisfy Mrs Le Grip's amendment, since it has the same objective. We would thus make progress in protecting the effectiveness of the neighbouring right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u31	The Minister for Culture has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u32	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u33	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u34	In order to be sure that you have understood correctly, Mr rapporteur, you are therefore considering giving an opinion in favour of Amendment No 20, the subject of which resonates very well with the one I was aiming at, certainly very imperfectly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u35	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u36	In view of this commitment and hoping that your opinion will be followed, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u37	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u38	Previous interventions left little room for suspense... This amendment follows our discussions on the exceptions to neighbouring law and the question of short extracts, as well as on the commitment of the rapporteur in committee to continue the debate in committee. We propose to supplement Article L. 211-3-1 of the Intellectual Property Code, created by the adoption of an amendment in committee. Article 1e r bis, paragraph 4, should be supplemented by the following sentence: "This effectiveness is affected, in particular, when the use of hyperlinks or very short extracts replaces or exempts the reader from the use of the press publication itself. » The purpose of this amendment is to illustrate a hypothesis in which the effectiveness of the neighbouring right may be affected by the exclusion of very short extracts from the scope of this right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u39	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u40	[[Smile]] As I said at the moment, we consider that this limitation of the definition of "very short extract" is very well suited to ensure the effectiveness of the neighbouring right. We must reaffirm here that the exclusion of very short excerpts from the scope of this right should not in any way be exempt from reading the content. The very short extract can be a teaser, it can arouse desire, but desire is not the act!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u41	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u42	It is difficult to speak after such a speech...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u43	Don't worry, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u44	The Government supports the amendment. I would point out that the provision does not cover all situations, as you have introduced the term "in particular". In other words, the effectiveness of the neighbouring right cannot be affected in any other way. If that were the case, it would also impede the application of the exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u45	It is the effectiveness of desire that produces the act!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u46	I put Amendment No. 20 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u47	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 75 Number of votes cast 75 Absolute majority 38 For adoption 75 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u48	The act joins desire!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u49	I put to the vote Rule 1e r bis, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u50	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 78 Number of votes cast 78 Absolute majority 40 For adoption 78 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u51	On Amendment No 19, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u52	We propose that article 2, paragraph 2, be supplemented by the following sentence: "A new period shall begin to run in the event of a substantial change or updating of all or part of a press publication. » It is important to take into account that online press content may be subject to successive updates, transformations or rewrites. Where such changes or additions are substantial, where the content becomes different or very different, this must trigger a new period of two years during which publishers and news agencies benefit from the protection of the neighbouring right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u53	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u54	You have just summarized in a few words – quite well indeed – almost two years of discussion in the European Parliament. France's position was that the duration of property rights should be five years. The compromise solution was adopted for a period of two years. In the event that a new period of protection under the neighbouring right would begin with each development or addition to a press article, in practice almost perpetual protection would be achieved. This is a real legal danger: not only would it be a form of overtransposition, but it would even run counter to the text of the European directive. All the more so since it already provides – it is written in all letters – that the press article is protected, including in its regularly updated dimension. You are absolutely right on the merits, Mrs Le Grip, and, all of us here, we are not far from thinking the same thing as you, but we would take the risk of weakening the system from a legal point of view. In a material as mobile and plastic as the digital sector, which will continue to evolve over the next few years, it is better, in my view, to have a legally sound device starting with a period of two years. If necessary, we will change legislation in the coming years, but at first we must stay as close as possible to the directive. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u55	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u56	I fully agree with the rapporteur's very clear argument. I would like to insist, Mrs Le Grip: from the moment there will be a substantial change to the article, a new deadline will run, since it will be, in a way, a new publication. I also suggest that the amendment be withdrawn. Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u57	Do you maintain the amendment, Mrs. Le Grip?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u58	I withdraw it, because I have noted with great interest the words of the minister and the rapporteur. It is now acknowledged in the record of our discussions that a substantial change is indeed a substantial change, and that it will lead to a new period of protection under neighbouring law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u59	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u60	It covers the duration of the property rights attached to the neighbouring right granted to publishers and news agencies under Article 3 of the proposed law. In the original version of the text, our colleague Senator David Assouline predicted that publishers and news agencies would have property rights over their productions for fifty years. It had aligned this term, within the intellectual property code, with that of the rights enjoyed by performers, producers of phonograms and audiovisual communication undertakings. France's initial position was that the duration of property rights should be twenty years. The European Parliament has adopted, under the influence of Germany, a five-year period, on the grounds that news is, by its very nature, more ephemeral than other works of the mind subject to neighbouring law, in particular the fixation on a medium of the performance of performers. In the Senate, discussions led to a five-year period, in order to reconcile French and European positions. In committee at the Assembly on 30 April, the rapporteur proposed to align himself with the provisions of the European directive by reducing the duration of these property rights to two years. However, Article 25 of the Directive allows States to adopt broader provisions. During the general discussion, I explained that the terrible images of the Notre-Dame fire would retain heritage value for decades. The history of press photography gives us many examples of mythical images, which retain heritage value long after their publication.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u61	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u62	One could mention, among other things, the assassination of J. F. Kennedy or the towers of the World Trade Center on 11 September 2001. Photographs are unique documents. To protect them by granting publishers and news agencies property rights for two years seems to us a nonsense. We therefore propose that you return to 50 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u63	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u64	From a legal point of view, my argument will be almost identical to the one I have just developed with regard to the updating of press articles. From an operational point of view, we are obliged to question the case of photographs, but there are two limits. Firstly, at no time has protection exceeding 20 years been mentioned, envisaged or included in the legislation at European level. The duration of 50 years therefore appears to be very long. One might have been tempted to under-amend it to twenty years, but that would have already been ten times as much as the European directive provides. This could have been dangerous before the courts, and our role is precisely to avoid litigation that could lead to the looting of the press tomorrow. Secondly, we are entering into a period of negotiation, and we must place ourselves in that perspective. This negotiation will not focus on the value of an isolated object – I am replying in part, Mr Larive – nor on a number of clicks, Mrs Faucillon, nor on a particular form, photo, video or text. The issue is the value produced by all stakeholders contributing to journalistic activity. The negotiation will focus on the value derived from press articles, their valorization and their illustration, the meaning being sometimes given to the article by a drawing, a photo or a video. We must defend a neighbouring right that applies to the global content, not in a segmented way to each of the values resulting from journalistic work. Basically, you're absolutely right, Mrs. Tolmont,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u65	Thank you! Then vote on the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u66	...the photographers must be protected in themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u67	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u68	If we find, at the end of the negotiations, that it is impossible to achieve fair remuneration, we may have to legislate again. However, as a first step, let us preserve the negotiating capacity of press publishers. Today, they start from scratch, and they have to get something.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u69	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u70	I agree with the rapporteur, who pointed out very well the link between text, image and video. I would add that the text is intended to create a neighbouring right and that it does not contain any provisions that could infringe copyright, which protects the production of photographers for a period of seventy years. Copyright, which is so important, will of course be maintained. I know you have clear ideas about this, Mrs Tolmont, but I prefer to clarify things. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u71	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u72	I have heard the arguments of the rapporteur and the minister. Nevertheless, the news agencies are investing in this work and are therefore, in my view, rightfully calling for better remuneration and better protection of images. I maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u73	I put to the vote Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u74	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 78 Number of votes cast 74 Absolute majority 38 For adoption 7 Against 67
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u75	I abstained! I'm a corporatist!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u76	I have two identical amendments, Nos 14 and 18. On these identical amendments Nos 14 and 18, the Socialist and related groups have submitted a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u77	We have reworked the amendment, which has been examined by the committee, in order to provide a more precise definition of the news agency. We propose to indicate that it has "the main activity of collecting, processing and editing, under its own responsibility, of journalistic content". It seems to us essential to clarify more clearly what a news agency is and to indicate what its work is, stressing the journalistic nature of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u78	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u79	Same arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u80	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u81	Since we are about to redefine what a press publisher is, it seems quite legitimate to redefine also what a news agency is. In our committee discussions, however, we made a reservation: there is no risk that two definitions, that of the 1945 Order and that of the amendment, will coexist. The main limit you are proposing is turnover, of which at least 50% must be based on journalistic content. What seems self-evident, but beyond redundancy, there is concern that the most recent definition may be less than the original definition. I therefore ask the Minister. Does the two definitions seem compatible to him? While waiting for him to speak, I rely on the wisdom of the congregation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u82	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u83	In my view, the clarification contained in the amendments is perfectly in line with the letter of Article 1 of the 1945 Ordinance regulating news agencies. I therefore express a favourable opinion. This wording in no way alters the provisions in force. The criteria adopted by the Joint Publications and News Agencies Committee (JSC) to recognize the status of news agency, including the share of sales from the media, will remain unchanged.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u84	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 14 and 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u85	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 74 Number of votes cast 73 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 72 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u86	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u87	The amendment seeks to clarify the territoriality of the application of neighbouring law: this is the territory of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u88	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 4, as corrected. On Amendment No 4, as amended, and on Amendment No 5, I am seized by the UDI Group, acting and independent, of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs. Dumas, we're listening.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u89	We must cover, or at least try to do so, all the business models of the future. However, the article refers only to the reproduction of press publications and their communication to the public, without providing for their making available to the public. In order for everyone to understand what is at stake, let us recall the economic reality behind this legal concept. Today, publishers and news agencies, for example, are confronted with cutting activities. As the report written by Laurence Franceschini in July 2016 for the Conseil supérieur de la propriété littéraire et artistique on the creation of a neighbouring right for press publishers, the crawlers, service companies in e-reputation and stand-by, develop a business of new generation press panoramas through hypertext links to press content, without prior permission, therefore without compensation for the publishers. This completely new market, estimated today at EUR 31 million, is totally out of the hands of press publishers. These are mainly offers of social watch and strategic watch services offered for consideration in the context of a commercial relationship. They aim to enable customers to analyse the impact of their communication on the Internet and to anticipate market developments. Crawlers index press content, or even archive it, and then distribute it to their customers in the form of structured press panoramas, dashboards or alerts including word clouds, aggregations of content related to a particular request, for example the name of a brand, or hypertext links to press content. Therefore, there is no actual reproduction or communication of press content, even though it is on the basis of these content, produced by publishers, that the economic model of these actors develops.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u90	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u91	Crawling is one of the practices that could lead to emptying the neighbouring right of its meaning, of its state, and to depriving it of its fair remuneration. Since the text distinguishes between communication to the public and making it available to the public, it seems to me very important, if we do not want to render the neighbouring right ineffective, to define better what is involved in online communication and making it available on-line. In principle, the amendment, which is coherent, is a matter of common sense. The Assembly must specify whether, in the case of crawling, provision, communication and reproduction should be combined, or whether the neighbouring right concerns a set of benefits. On this point, I am tempted to ask the minister. The word of the Government will enable, in the event of a dispute, to determine before the courts what will be worth and what will not be worth it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u92	Since the opinion of the commission is subordinate to that of the minister, may I consider that you rely on the wisdom of the assembly?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u93	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u94	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u95	The two neighbouring rights covered by the proposed law – the right to reproduction and communication to the public – cover all possible assumptions of exploitation of press publications, including making available. Your amendment is therefore satisfied with the text. In addition, adopting it would create a risk. In matters of neighbouring law, making available usually involves making physical copies of phonograms and videograms available for sale. However, the neighbouring right we are debating today only covers on-line farms. The amendment would therefore create a difficulty in interpreting the concept of making available. I therefore call on you to withdraw it. Otherwise, I will express an unfavorable opinion, since – I insist – it is already satisfied and it would create many legal confusions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u96	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u97	I maintain the amendment which received the rapporteur's favourable opinion before the public sitting. If you find the provisions on neighbouring law that apply to phonograms and videograms complicated, then those on our subject are complicated too. They're both worth each other. One may think that the clarification that I propose to introduce is problematic, but its absence is no less problematic, because there is a difference between public communication and provision. It is a pity that no effort is being made to reassure publishers and news agencies on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u98	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u99	Neither the rapporteur nor I myself refuse to make the effort to find solutions, and we are now working in the Chamber, as we have done in committee, in the best possible way. The Government sincerely adopts a particularly constructive attitude towards Parliament. If we could go in your direction and support a good amendment, we would have done so. But introducing confusion around the notion of making available would have important legal consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u100	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u101	As you said, Minister, everything was going very well with the rapporteur. Since you are giving me this answer, I would point out, what I did not wish to do, that on Monday evening you sent a message to all the Members of the UDI-Agir Group asking them not to co-sign the amendment, which you would oppose. Three of them have indeed withdrawn their signatures. Is this your view of the separation of powers and what constructive work is? [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I repeat that the rapporteur agreed with this amendment which you are asking me "in a constructive state of mind" to withdraw. That's why I have to reveal the approach you made on Monday night.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u102	I put to the vote Amendment No 4, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u103	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 75 Number of votes cast 69 Absolute majority 35 For adoption 17 Against 52
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u104	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u105	This amendment tends to align paragraph 11 with that proposed in Amendment No 4, which was corrected after paragraph 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u106	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u107	This time I express an unfavorable opinion. On Amendment No 4, as corrected, I had resorted to the wisdom of the assembly pending the Minister's enlightenment of the assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u108	Unfortunately, his clarifications have not been very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u109	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u110	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u111	I put Amendment No. 5 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u112	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 73 Number of votes cast 70 Absolute majority 36 For adoption 14 Against 56
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u113	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u114	As I indicated in the general discussion, we made amendments in committee to strengthen the need for transparency on the part of platforms in the transmission of data for the use of press and operating content, in order to allow the objective assessment of the base and the amount of remuneration and thus ensure a true and fair sharing of value. It seems to me wise to move forward a step forward to ensure that we monitor the compliance of the platforms with this obligation by creating an audit of the data transmitted. The platforms are unfortunately at least discreet on this data; the existence of an audit would therefore reinforce this obligation of transparency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u115	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u116	With regard to the application of this neighbouring right, in the framework of the negotiation, the devil will indeed be in the details and in the way: it will be necessary to determine the volume of the cake to be shared and the share coming back to the world of the press in general. How can we avoid successful negotiations? By not saying everything about resources, what GAFAMs will be tempted to do. If the legislator has provided for a number of appeal or appeal procedures, the Government should be allowed to use them. While your objective is commendable, I fear that an appeal solution consisting of an audit organized by a Government decree will encourage the GAFAMs not to open or resist negotiations as long as possible, or to resist transparency in their resources, thus losing the right holders a few precious months of turnover. In these circumstances, my opinion is rather unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u117	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u118	I will go along the same lines as the rapporteur. A very important contribution has been made in committee concerning the obligation of transparency: it must be verified, if necessary, by the judge. It is the judge who will have to check whether transparency commitments are being met. For this reason, my opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u119	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u120	The aim is to clarify the basis of the neighbouring duty to ensure that all services, even non-directly commercial ones, will be covered by the remuneration obligation. We wish to reflect the letter and spirit of some very important recitals of the European directive. Thus, recital 54 expressly states that the creation of a neighbouring right for press publishers must protect the press, which makes a fundamental contribution to public debate and the proper functioning of a democratic society. In its recital 55, no less important, it states that the financial and organisational contribution of publishers in the production of press publications must be more recognised and encouraged in order to ensure the sustainability of the publishing sector. Our objective is also to clarify and focus the focus on the obligations of information and thus transparency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u121	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u122	The objective of transparency, which has now been referred to by the Minister, is clear. There is a thought to be taken together on the ad hoc committee, the appeal committee. The devil is in the details, the devil is in the way! If the law provides for the meeting of an ad hoc commission in case of failure of negotiations between publishers and news agencies, on the one hand, and infomediaries, on the other – which I have defended for a long time in my personal capacity – the actors could be tempted, as in the case of the audit, to wait for the ad hoc commission to be convened by the Government to make a little longer. As for an economic and non-cultural right, the devil will also be in temporality. If the law opens up a right and it is not respected, it goes without saying that the rule of law will assume its responsibilities. But I am not sure that it is up to the law to set up the ad hoc committee. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u123	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u124	The rapporteur's explanation is very clear; the path is the right one. I would add that this will not prevent the Government, if necessary, from promptly appointing a mediator in order to save time, as the passage to a commission may take a very long time. This would allow for an attempt to mediate before bringing the matter before the judge. That is why I agree with the rapporteur: a request for withdrawal or an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u125	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u126	Following its consideration in committee, this amendment has been reworked to clarify its scope. It is appropriate to remain faithful to the spirit of the Directive and to exclude from the scope those who are already virtuous in the remuneration of copyright. In this case, the day before and the media analysis, which follow thousands of media sources daily to which they already pay copyright fees for the exploitation of their content, would be excluded from the scope of application. Otherwise, the consequences could be significant for the sector's economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u127	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u128	You are right to recall that there are virtuous actors in this sector: watch companies already pay a copyright fee to companies that publish press articles. It should be recalled that the neighbouring right is a right to authorize or prohibit the online publication of the press article. As long-standing partners – customers, in this case, because they pay a fee – press publishers or news agencies are fully entitled to authorise the use of their production free of charge. I hardly see how one could ask his client to pay twice for exactly the same service. In principle, I understand the objective, but I fear that in practice the law will be increased by trying to fill a gap that is not one. In this country, laws are often too heavy; It would be good if it could be "lightened"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u129	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u130	I understand your intention, Mrs. Bergé. I would add to the rapporteur's arguments that this directive, in its Article 15, makes the neighbouring right of publishers and news agencies enforceable against all providers of information society services. We cannot, therefore, legally exclude some of them from the scope of application. In the negotiations that will take place, it will be very easy to argue that there has already been a copyright payment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u131	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u132	One of the major challenges in the implementation of neighbouring rights is the run-off of wealth created for the benefit of online press publishers to authors. Often precarious, journalists and freelancers must be the first and first beneficiaries of these measures. In an article on February 4, 2019, Pierre Bafoil publishes Fabrice's story. Forced to peg for a media that he doesn't like the editorial line or how it works, he says: "At 29, when you have to go back to your parents, that you've never made more than 800 euros a month, it's complicated. [...] I was exhausted by this instability. He describes his working conditions as follows: "an atmosphere of workers at the chain to feed the beast. » This text does not sufficiently guarantee that the resources produced will actually benefit journalists. That is why we propose that you set the amount of the journalist's 50 per cent remuneration for the reproduction and representation of press publications in digital form.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u133	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u134	This amount may be more than 50 per cent. Why would the law set it at 50%? The neighbouring right is defined in relation to the investment made by a press publisher or news agency. This investment can be material, technological and above all human. Provided that the theory of runoff exists, journalists will necessarily have to benefit from it. In a few moments, we will study the amendment tabled by our colleague Faunette Charvier to ensure transparency and agreement between the employer and the journalist. For some publishers, human investment in journalistic work can sometimes be more than 50%, and sometimes less. I do not believe that it is up to the legislator to substitute for labour law negotiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u135	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u136	The majority and the rapporteur completed the text in committee, adopting a reference to "appropriate and fair remuneration". I know that you are well informed about this, because you mentioned this point. Then let collective bargaining take place! I will therefore go along the lines of the rapporteur's arguments: unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u137	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u138	Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, I have heard you say for some time now that you are going to negotiate: but on what basis will you do so? For now, you're not negotiating anything: you're starting from scratch!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u139	We're not going to negotiate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u140	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] I inform you that the GAFAM do not want to negotiate; The GAFAM want the status quo! If you leave by saying "We have nothing to negotiate" or "We have no basis to negotiate", so don't go there: it will save a lot of money! This is not a negotiation; It's a proper surrender!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u141	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u142	Minister Jacqueline Gourault, who represented the Minister this morning, recalled that it would be extremely complicated for the GAFAs to oppose a broadcasting capacity for 700 million people; But the subject isn't here. During the general discussion, you announced that the day after the vote on this law, we would find ourselves in a jungle where any publisher – big or small, dear colleague Faucillon – will have to negotiate with every info media, every platform, every aggregator, every social network. No! On the one hand, that is absolutely not what the law provides for and, on the other hand, that is what common sense does not provide for! In the last ten years we have been talking about neighbouring law, it has been shown that individual negotiations are bound to fail. Press publishers will negotiate with the GAFAM. There is no question that the journalists themselves are negotiating with the GAFAMs! The discussion will be exactly like the one we know in the context of labour law, with collective agreements; These may be branch agreements, agreements of companies as they are now provided for in the code. It's an employer-employee relationship. The objective you are pursuing is commendable, but you are confusing the two types of negotiations, and you think that the cake must already be distributed before you have defined it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u143	Mr Michel Larive has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u144	The text states that journalists will be entitled to a share of the remuneration, however modest, for the reproduction and representation of press publications in digital form. This is important in view of the precarious working conditions of certain professionals in the sector, with a quarter of them unemployed or freelancers. In an article by the Inrokuptibles on February 4, Julia, a freelance journalist, says: "I earned 73 euros a day in editorials that don't call you all the time because there are quotas, and where you are made to understand that you have to stay until 10 p.m. because there are a thousand of them behind you. She decided to turn to the regional press. Forced to return to her parents, she ran small contracts in local press institutions. That is why we believe that journalists must be the first beneficiaries of these measures. Failure to incorporate these earnings into wages means ensuring that unemployment benefits and pension calculations do not take them into account. All work deserves a decent wage, and all wages are attached to social rights that are not to be abolished. That is why we propose to delete the last sentence of this paragraph, stating that this supplementary remuneration is not of a wage nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u145	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u146	Mr Larive, we have the same objective, but not at all the same means of achieving it! That's right, journalists are poorly paid in our country. The neighbouring right must allow them, by a supposed runoff, in any case by company agreements which we call our wishes, to be better paid, but it must not be written in the law that it is salary when it is a salary supplement. Otherwise, the lump sum salary of a newly hired journalist will consist, for one part, of the old salary and, for another, of the neighbouring right which will accrue to him. Instead of receiving a salary supplement through the neighbouring right, the journalist will, in reality, suffer from a reduction in his current salary. In the area of remuneration, a distinction must be made between the wages, which are charged, and the remuneration of benefits, of which the neighbouring right is a part. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u147	Mrs Fannette Charvier has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u148	This amendment tabled by Members of the LaREM and MODEM groups provides that an administrative committee will be responsible for seeking a compromise or even fixing the appropriate and fair share that the journalist will have. This commission will only intervene in the event of disagreement or lack of agreement between the main parties concerned. The Commission's regime incorporates and adapts the provisions governing the Committee on the Copyright of Journalists – CDAJ.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u149	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u150	[[Smile]] It's a great amendment! Unlike a disagreement between the publisher and GAFA, where the Government will be called upon to take over the law, these are branch or company agreements that may not succeed, either because employers do not provide the necessary transparency or because negotiations have not been successful. We could also be confronted with the situation in which such publisher and his employees find an agreement and such other no. To be able to resort in such a case to a rescue mechanism, a sort of appeal commission, is a solution that will reassure the entire journalistic profession. The opinion is therefore of course favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u151	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u152	This amendment responds to the concern of many Members on this issue of relations between journalists and press publishers. You mentioned these concerns yourself, Mr. Larive. I would like to thank the rapporteur and Mrs Charvier for this amendment which is really in the right direction. It is a very good idea that this committee can be used to facilitate agreements. The opinion is therefore favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u153	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u154	With this amendment, to which I had the opportunity to refer during the general discussion, I would like to focus on other extremely important and much-anticipated provisions of the European Directive, in particular Article 17 establishing copyright for artists and creators. We know that the fight for the right to fair remuneration for artists and creators in the digital age has been waged for several years within the various European institutions. The determination of the French authorities and of all the political families of European parliamentarians of French nationality was paid tribute. We believe that it is just as urgent to transpose article 17 as article 15, which we have been talking about extensively since the end of the morning. We would therefore very much like to be able to use this bill as a legislative vehicle to also transpose Article 17 instituting the recognition of the copyright of artists and creators to ensure that the use of cultural content protected by providers of online content sharing services respects copyright. Ms. Gourault told us this morning that the Government was very committed to this provision and hoped for a speedy transposition of it and other provisions arising from the CabSat regulation, referring this care to the draft law reforming the public audiovisual sector. All of this reassures us so much that we fear that because of the legislative congestion that is emerging and because of Parliament's extremely busy agenda, the finalisation of the process of adopting the public audiovisual reform will not be postponed until the end of next year or even beyond. We would therefore like to see the opportunity of this legislative vehicle, now in the National Assembly or later in the Senate, to act quickly on copyright.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u155	I have already indicated that, on Amendments Nos 17 and 13, a request for a public vote has been submitted to the Socialist and Related Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 8?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u156	I recognize the former European parliamentarian in your impatience to transpose into French law! This transposition really concerns copyright, which is a cultural right, rather distant from the neighbouring right, which is an economic right. I am therefore not sure that this is the right legislative vehicle; Rather, it is an equestrian vehicle, as it could be described as a horseman. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u157	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u158	It's almost all said! I welcome the way in which the discussions on this text have taken place. In particular, I would like to thank the rapporteur, the members present today, Senator Assouline and the senators – there was a unanimous vote in the Senate. There was the will to go quickly on a text that had been worked on by Patrick Mignola, discussed here in this Chamber, prepared in the Senate. The Government has worked to bring together the energies to do good work with Parliament, a work that must now culminate in this discussion. We were able to go fast because there were beautiful parliamentary initiatives, and to the National Assembly and the Senate. It turns out that the Government is working on the audiovisual law that will be the right text to transpose the rest, or at least a large part of the copyright directive. One cannot be faster in the discussion and transposition since the text will be presented in the summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u159	September?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u160	We work hard with some of you, we will exchange, meet with professionals. I cannot give you the exact date of submission to the Council of Ministers. We are working with the ministry in charge of relations with Parliament so that the text can be debated in the National Assembly before the end of the year or at the very beginning of next year. We cannot go any faster than that: the text will be presented very soon to the Council of Ministers and then debated. I consider this to be an appeal amendment because Article 17 of the directive cannot be transposed like this at the end of the discussion of a text one afternoon. This requires a lot of work, exchanges, preparation. But rest assured, the Government wants to move quickly on the full transposition of the copyright directive. We are pleased that, thanks to the relations between Parliament and Government, we can quickly transpose the section relating to the neighbouring right of press publishers, news agencies and journalists. For the rest, it's in the pipes and it's going to happen very soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u161	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u162	Thank you, Minister, for taking the time to respond to me at some length. I had already dealt with the matter during the consideration of the bill establishing the National Music Centre last Monday, but I had not had the honour of having an answer on the schedule at that time. I therefore take note of the fact that you are making a commitment to work on this subject, which I have no doubt about at all, and to allow for the transposition of the public audiovisual reform bill. You, like the rapporteur, have also paid tribute to the parliamentary initiative. We all know that if we can go fast today, it is because some senators, first of all Senator Assouline, did not wait until the end of European work to take the initiative, without being impressed by the admonishments of one or another. If we want to move so fast on the transposition of copyright, we can not go faster than music, but trust parliamentarians through a bill, a lighter vehicle that would allow us not to drown the subject of the recognition of copyright, but also of the strengthening of the fight against piracy, in a huge reform of the public audiovisual sector, of which we can see that it will be extremely controversial and will take a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u163	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u164	Really, Mrs. Le Grip, we're going very fast! The Government wants to go fast, but we must not confuse speed with haste. Quality reform and exemplary transposition are needed. This is really the subject of the audiovisual reform, an important part of which will be devoted to the financing of creation. We are therefore at the heart of the matter. As for the "magnificent" reform of the public audiovisual sector, let no one be afraid! This government and this majority have an ambition for the public audiovisual sector: to reaffirm public service missions in the audiovisual field and to find the best governance to achieve this. This part will be important but will not be the heart of the audiovisual reform, which will be the financing of creation in the digital age, and thus, in part, the transposition of the ADM directive. The Government is moving quickly and trusting Parliament to work in the best possible way, as we are doing on neighbouring rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u165	I have before me two amendments, Nos 17 and 13, which may be put to a joint debate. I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u166	The granting of a neighbouring right opens the way for the recognition of remuneration for private copying, in particular on media such as USB drives, hard drives, tablets because of the lack of profit that this exception creates for the rightholders. In 2010, an agreement was reached between press publishers and journalists for the payment of these sums, but no agreement was reached between the press agencies and the authors. In order to secure this right and extend it to news agencies, we propose, in the first paragraph of Article L. 311-1 of the Intellectual Property Code, after the second occurrence of the word "videograms", to insert the words: "and news publishers and news agencies".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u167	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u168	It's similar. The granting of a neighbouring right must well pave the way for the recognition of a right for private copying for news agencies. It is therefore appropriate to add "and news agencies" to the above paragraph.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u169	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u170	We share the fear that has led you to table these amendments, but I will make two reservations. The first is that "press publishers and news agencies" or "news agencies" already receive remuneration for private copying. The second is that you include these amendments in an article of the intellectual property code dealing with videograms and phonograms and that all press publications, not just those two media, should have been included. In these circumstances, I do not believe that the objective would certainly be achieved. In any event, the rejection of these amendments would in no way undermine the neighbouring right. As I said earlier, I do not see why the law would be further burdened when this source of remuneration already exists. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u171	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u172	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u173	I put to the vote Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u174	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 75 Number of votes cast 71 Absolute majority 36 For adoption 18 Against 53
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u175	I put to the vote Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u176	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 74 Number of votes cast 70 Absolute majority 36 For adoption 14 Against 56
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u177	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u178	We come to the explanations of vote. Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u179	The MODEM and related groups are pleased to see a long-awaited text finally completed. The European Parliament's vote allows for the swift implementation of neighbouring law, which we must all rejoice at because it is pluralism, freedom of opinion and, therefore, democracy. With this text, we give news agencies and publishers the means to secure their future. Strongly, it has been the subject of important work in committee and in session to adhere as closely as possible to the European Directive. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] The MODEM and related groups will vote enthusiastically for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u180	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u181	[[Applause on several benches in the MODEM group]] Notwithstanding the question of the property rights of news agencies, in particular on photographic content and the right to private copying, we will not negotiate and will vote in favour of this bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u182	No enthusiasm!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u183	... unanimously voted in the Senate thanks to his rapporteur, my dear colleague David Assouline. I hope that our voice will be heard by our honourable senators to continue the work we have begun, particularly on the two issues I have just raised, which leave me with a little bit of hunger. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. - Mrs Florence Provendier and Mr Philippe Vigier also applaud]] The Socialist and Related Group will therefore vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u184	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u185	We welcome, of course, the speed with which this article of the directive has been transposed. The independent UDI-Agir Group will vote in favour of this text. We would like once again to thank the rapporteur for the quality of the exchanges we have had in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u186	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u187	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] I thank the rapporteur: that is very specific.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u188	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u189	The text remains in the state in which we found it. So what I announced during the general discussion will happen. France will therefore vote against...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u190	France doesn't like journalists!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u191	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] ...because he's not satisfying. Yes! I need one, and it's me! Nothing is established, everything is blurred.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u192	You're under the GAFA!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u193	We're talking about something fair, but on the day you give me the definition of that word, we can talk. You're talking about negotiation, but, in my opinion, it's more of a massive campaign surrender, which is to leave the field open to the GAFA...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u194	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u195	... who will finally be able to get hold of the entire media distribution in France, as they have done elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u196	You're plowing the field for the GAFAs!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u197	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You offer them this possibility, well, you take responsibility for it! You have no safeguards and you will reap the results!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u198	A little calm, please! Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u199	The Day of Europe, which we are celebrating today, seems to us to be an ideal opportunity to transpose this very recently adopted European directive on copyright.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u201	[[Applause on several benches in the MODEM group]] [[Same movements]] We can indeed welcome this reactivity. I would like to thank our colleague Patrick Mignola and the MODEM and related groups for that, as I thank him for the kindness he showed during the examination of the text. Nor do I forget to thank the Socialist Group in the Senate, which is at the origin of the Senate. The stakes are high and, as parliamentarians, we have a duty to ensure that our national response is part of European harmonisation. We therefore appreciate the various amendments which have been adopted in committee or in committee and which have brought the wording of this proposal closer to that of the European directive. The digital transition has upset our relationship with information and must no longer be a danger to the press: on the contrary, it must give it a new impetus. However, the power of platforms that capture the bulk of revenue prevents press publishers and content authors from being adequately remunerated. With this text, we choose to better protect the press at a time when threats to its economic survival raise fears for the freedom of our media. It is precisely for this reason that the Libertés et Territoires Group deeply regrets that the generalist and political press and, in particular, the local press, are not mentioned as such in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u202	We had to amend the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u203	This is a missed opportunity, which severely weakens the scope of this bill. While national newspapers will be able to claim neighbouring rights, the ability of the regional daily press and the regional weekly press to act is not the same. Our group is concerned that the latter may not be entitled to the neighbouring right and thus be excluded from it. Yet they need better funding. I would remind you that it is they who guarantee media pluralism, which is essential to the proper functioning of our democracy. We regret that we did not hear you, Mr Minister, in spite of the questions raised by my colleague Michel Castellani during the general discussion, despite also the commitments you made in this regard. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group and on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Nevertheless, whatever these reservations may be, we will vote in favour of this text, which is a real step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u204	Mrs Fannette Charvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u205	This text is very much expected, as has been said, both by the profession and by the legislator, because it is important to rebalance the sharing of value in the online press sector. It is indeed symbolic to adopt it today, as we celebrate Europe Day. This text is a European success, as I said in the general discussion, but it is also a legislative success through collective construction, both in our chamber and in the Senate. Finally, I have every confidence in the online press to be united, in their diversity, when negotiating and managing their neighbouring rights. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u206	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u207	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u208	The Republican Group will vote on this bill, although we would have liked to make some adjustments, clarifications and additions. At this stage, and given the importance, urgency, and the extreme expectation of professionals – press publishers, news agencies – in this matter, we will not meddle, either, as one of our colleagues said. I stress the quality of the method of work: the association of several political groups, including when drafting amendments that substantially modified the original text from the Senate, the work to reach agreements and consensus can only be beneficial and beneficial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u209	That's MODEM!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u210	This honours Parliament, the goodwill that drives us all. This spirit, this constructive approach of involving several political families in the same work can be usefully meditated and used by others in other work. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and UDI-Agir groups]] I should like to point out that the rapporteur, President Mignola, has worked very constructively. We therefore find ourselves in this text, which we will vote with pleasure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u211	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u212	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 82 Number of votes cast 81 Absolute majority 41 For adoption 80 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u213	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u214	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u215	The next item is the debate on the bill adopted by the Senate to secure the ownership of local public enterprises (No. 1840, 1910).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u216	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u217	And Alsace, for it is the only minister who defends this territory!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u218	After the Senate that examined it and passed it on April 4, your assembly is now seized of the bill to secure the ownership of local public enterprises. This text is the result of a timely initiative by Senator Hervé Marseille, president of the Union centriste group, as it is an important subject for local public enterprises and local authorities. As the Government had the opportunity to express it in the Senate through the voice of Olivier Dussopt, who had agreed to replace me during the parliamentary debate, we consider this legislative initiative to be particularly welcome in the context of strong legal constraints resulting from a recent decision of the Council of State of 14 November 2018. It is indeed urgent to improve the law applicable to the ownership of local public enterprises, the PLEs, so as not to take the risk of destabilising an economic sector essential to the life of our territories. Referring to the statistics provided by the Federation of Local Public Enterprises, it is estimated that local authorities have created nearly 1300 local public enterprises, including 925 local mixed economy companies, 359 local public companies – SPL – and 16 joint economy companies with a single operation. These companies employ nearly 70000 employees and weigh around EUR 14 billion in turnover. Beyond these purely statistical elements, which are nevertheless eloquent, it should be noted that the scope of action of the EPLs has become richer and has evolved with practice. These companies are one of the many tools available to local and regional authorities to carry out their tasks among a range of possibilities. The mixed economy thus contributes to the dynamism of territorial development and to the support of local investment. It is a mode of action that enables innovative policies, such as the energy transition, to emerge. These companies thus conduct actions and projects in diverse areas, such as tourism, culture and leisure for about 23%, and development for 25%, sectors that are predominant within the landscape. In addition, sectors such as housing and real estate – which account for 16% of the total – or mobility confirm their importance, while emerging new areas of action such as the environment, networks, economic development and personal services. In this regard, it is interesting to note that certain areas, such as tourism, culture, sport and renewable energy, fall within the scope of shared competences between different levels of local and regional authorities, which brings us directly to the bill we are debating today. Indeed, once exceptional, the multi-activity of local public enterprises is now the majority situation, which makes it all the more necessary to adapt the law relating to the decision of the Council of State of 14 November 2018. It is indeed consistent in our right that a local authority cannot do through a local public undertaking what it does not have the right to do on its own. This rule, which is not called into question by the proposed law, is, moreover, before the law, known as NOTRe, on the new territorial organization of the Republic: it dates from the first laws that introduced the possibility of establishing local public enterprises. However, until 14 November last, administrative jurisprudence hesitated between two interpretations as to the situation of companies carrying out their tasks in several fields of activity. According to the most flexible of these interpretations, a community could participate only if the predominant part of society's missions did not go beyond its sphere of competence. According to the strictest, a community could only participate in the capital of a local public undertaking if it had all the powers corresponding to the tasks of the undertaking. This is the last reading, the strictest, which the Council of State adopted last November. However, it is estimated that a large number of local businesses – almost 40% of the total – do not meet these conditions, which could seriously weaken their legal situation. It was therefore urgent to revisit this jurisprudence, as proposed in the bill passed by senators. The Government shares the objective pursued by this text, which was enriched during its consideration by the Senate's Law Commission, which, inter alia, extended its provisions to local public development companies. However, as Olivier Dussopt pointed out in the Senate, we fear that the final wording will lead to excessive relaxation of the legislation in force. Indeed, read literally, the text transmitted to the National Assembly does not prohibit a community from taking a high stake in the capital of a local public enterprise even though its activities would only be very marginal to its powers. Moreover, the drafting does not appear to be a clear obstacle to the fact that part of the EPL's activity does not fall within the competence of the shareholders' communities. We are therefore concerned that such a choice would allow, on the one hand, the regularisation of local PLS and mixed-economy companies which were already not in conformity with the law before the decision of the Council of State and, on the other hand, the encouragement of the use of local multi-purpose public enterprises by communities whose competence would correspond only to a negligible proportion of the activities of these companies. The risk of circumvention is therefore real. This reasoning, therefore, led the Government, as it had done without success in the Senate, to table amendments to articles 1, 2 and 3 of the bill in order to tighten the conditions under which communities and their groups can take a stake in the capital of an EPL. They thus provide that such participation is possible only if the community or group does not have at least one competence to which the social object of the society relates and to which the society devotes a significant and regular part of its activity. Of course, this concept of a significant part was criticized by senators for its lack of clarity and legal precision that would pave the way for new risks of interpretation and thus litigation. According to the Government's interpretation, however, this is the most satisfactory legal solution, and I have no doubt that the actors in the local mixed economy and local and regional authorities will have an intelligent sense of this, particularly in a dialogue with the State representatives in the department, who will also be obliged to ensure that these rules are properly applied in the exercise of their duties under the rule of law. This formula seems to us to be much more flexible than the setting in law of a numerical threshold, the application of which would have created many difficulties. Finally, let us recall that this debate is an opportunity to address the issue of regulating the sector of local public enterprises. In 2017, two studies were devoted to them: an interim report from the Court of Auditors on the applicable legal and accounting framework and a review of the expenditure of general inspections on the control of risks by EPLs. These two reports, made public, were very critical and called for stronger control of EPLs and their subsidiaries. In particular, the Court of Auditors' reference of 15 June 2017 argued that these essential instruments for communities are not "sufficiently controlled" and that "the mechanisms for their control, transparency and assessment of their contribution to territorial public action should be reconsidered. » The conclusions of a new study by the Court of Auditors on the same subject, carried out at the request of the Chairman of your Committee on Finance, are expected very soon. As far as I know, your committee could debate it just as soon and I have no doubt that it will draw a number of conclusions from it. In these circumstances, the Government considers that the legislator must quickly take up this debate and, in consultation with representatives of local authorities and local public enterprises, respond to the observations of the Court of Auditors. This would be an element of balance and of securing the activity of local public enterprises, complementary to the flexibilities proposed by the text we are discussing. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] On the basis of these observations, the Government is in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u219	Mr Philippe Latomb, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u220	It is a bill with a well-defined object that the MODEM and related group has chosen to put on the agenda of its "niche". It is also a text that is intended to be consensual among parliamentarians: it has been in the Senate and, with a few exceptions, which, moreover, go beyond its strictly technical purpose, in the Committee on Laws. For the implementation of their competences, local and regional authorities may use different forms of public service management. They may choose direct management, entrust execution to the private sector in the context of a concession, or use local public undertakings for which they control all or part of the capital. Local public companies will be mentioned in the first case, and mixed economy companies in the second. These local public enterprises are also the means of forming a single operator for activities that fall within the boundaries of several communities. A competence can be held at all levels, as is the case with tourism promotion. It can also be fragmented between different levels of communities, such as different modes of transport or full water cycle management. As of 1 June 2018, France had 1300 EPLs in operation, including 925 mixed-economy companies, 16 single-operation mixed-economy companies and 359 local public companies. There were 67 creations in the previous year and 166 ongoing projects. The sector employs 65300 people with a turnover of 13.9 billion euros. It is therefore a tool that works and is found in most European states. The law governing local public enterprises has been ambiguous from the outset. In order for a territorial community to be a shareholder of an EPL, does it have to have all the powers covered by the social purpose of the enterprise or only part of it? Administrative courts have opposed this issue for several years, with contradictory decisions. Finally, the Council of State ruled on 14 November last in favour of the strictest solution. In the judge's view, therefore, a community must have all the skills that an EPL implements in order to invest meaningfully. This jurisprudential solution is a blow to the development of the EPLs and their financing, as the Caisse des dépôts et consignation stated in the hearing. What is more, it challenges the partnership approach that has been behind the actions of communities for years. It also poses practical problems: if communities are forced into forced divestitures, who will be designated as a forced buyer if not other communities? Presented at the initiative of Senator Hervé Marseille and several of his colleagues from various political groups, the bill has only one objective: to reverse the position of the Conseil d'État and to give precedence to the flexible interpretation which had been that of several administrative courts of appeal. It is therefore specified that communities involved in a local public enterprise must do so under one of the powers conferred on them by law. If an EPL carries out several activities, they must meet a condition of complementarity. After hearing the various stakeholders, I suggested to the Law Commission, which accepted it, that this text be adopted in terms identical to those adopted by the Senate. Indeed, the strict application of the gradeless position adopted by the Council of State would threaten the proper functioning of public services in the territories and raise considerable problems of capital transfer. Minister, in addition to your support for this bill, you raised some questions during your speech, as your colleague did in the Senate. I thank you for this because these are very sensible questions that deserve an answer from the National Assembly. First of all, you want an EPL not to be able to assume a jurisdiction that none of the shareholders have. I consider that the wording before us expressly provides for this. That was also Senator Loïc Hervé's position before the Senate. The intention of the legislator is very clear and I repeat it here after writing it black and white in my report. You will be able to report this to the law enforcement authorities and it will be up to the administrative courts to apply it: the EPLs must act only within the scope of the powers of the shareholders' authorities. There is no question of admitting the exercise of orphan skills. Things are very clear. Secondly, the mechanism we are adopting must not lead to abuse of rights, to diversions that would allow a community to finance 90% of an EPL, whereas its powers would only be marginally covered by the EPL's action. It is not necessary to recall this obvious rule: PLEs are not a way of surreptitiously reverting to the division of powers decided by the legislator. Any violation of this principle will have to be punished. Partnership is a good thing, but everyone must come to the common pot in accordance with his or her missions. We do not want a department to massively finance a development company on the grounds that it would act in a related way in favour of social inclusion. Here again, Madam Minister, you will be able to state this principled position to the prefects who are called upon to ensure that the law is respected on the ground. As these interpretations respond to the concerns of the Government, I will unsurprisingly ask the Government to consider its amendments to be satisfied and not to be in danger of obstructing the proper adoption of the bill. There is a real urgency in the territories and we, as parliamentarians, want to be answered as soon as possible. It is for this reason that the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement devotes part of its reserved agenda to this. I would like to conclude with a subject that is not included in the draft law, which has a technical object to which I will ask the National Assembly to stand, but which will deserve action by the Government and Parliament as soon as possible: the necessary modernization of the statutes of local public enterprises, in particular with regard to the obligations of transparency and democratic control. In this area, various reports have recently made recommendations for modernization. This has been the case in the last 18 months of the Court of Auditors and of the general inspections which have pointed to shortcomings which should be corrected. Amendments have been tabled to this effect by the Republic on the move groups and Liberties and Territories. I thank our colleagues for bringing this to light. As the rapporteur of a bill that a minority group has put forward on an own-initiative parliamentary day, I am not in a position to best translate these recommendations into the law. Nevertheless, the highest authorities have seized the matter. This is your case, since you will soon launch a consultation with elected associations on future developments. This is the case of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance who ordered a report from the Court of Auditors to be presented to us on 29 May by its chairman, Didier Migaud. This is also the case on the ground since the EPL Federation is working on a White Paper of proposals that will address these issues. The transparency of PLEs is a technical subject but important for our democracy. Parliamentarians will need the Government to engage with them and, through it, with the expertise of the Council of State to refine the arrangements. I hope you can confirm that this ambition is shared and that soon the book will be put on the job in the perspective of a bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LT groups]] These, ladies and gentlemen, are the reasons why I should like to support this bill as it stands and to ask for it to be adopted in a proper manner, as the Law Committee did last week.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u221	In the general debate, Mrs Josy Poueyto has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u222	If the MODEM and related group wanted to put on the Orders of the Day this bill tabled on the initiative of our colleagues in the Union centriste group of the Senate and co-signed by almost all the Senate groups, it is because it responds to urgent expectations from the communities and ends a judicial uncertainty. When our predecessors passed the Local Public Corporation Development Act in May 2010, the goal was to provide communities with appropriate tools to manage local public services efficiently and at the best possible cost. In fact, the Teckal judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in 1999 authorised local authorities to entrust operations of general interest to public companies which they own and control, without the need for competition. This exception to the competition rules is only allowed by European case law when certain criteria are met, in particular where the capital of the company in question is wholly public. As a result of this decision, it seemed appropriate to supplement the toolbox available to local communities in order to best meet the needs of populations and territories. The scheme applicable to local public companies is broadly similar to that of local mixed economy companies, except that their shareholders are exclusively local authorities or groups of local authorities. These companies are created within the framework of the powers conferred by law on their shareholders. Their social purpose is to carry out various planning or construction operations, as well as the operation of public services of an industrial or commercial nature or any other activity of general interest. These companies operate exclusively on behalf of their shareholders and in the territory of the territorial authorities and the groups of territorial authorities which are members of them. The MODEM Group considers that these local public companies meet a real need. The success of SPL has been demonstrated by the fact that since 2010, 359 SPLs have been created and some 60 are currently in the pipeline. For local elected officials, these PLS are a valuable lever of action because they allow cooperation between communities of different levels, which may have to act in similar areas with differentiated competences. Despite obvious benefits, many SPLs are now threatened by a decision of the Council of State. Indeed, because of a vague wording of article L. 1531-1 of the General Code of Local Authorities, there was a doubt as to the possibility for a community to participate in an SPL whose tasks would fall only partly within its competence. Following diverging jurisprudence of several administrative courts and courts of appeal, the Conseil d'État ruled, by a judgment of 14 November 2018, that "the participation of a territorial authority or a group of territorial authorities in a local public company [...] is excluded where that territorial authority or group of territorial authorities does not exercise all the powers over which the social object of the society relates. » This judgment is problematic because it clearly ignores the intention of the legislators who preceded us. It also destabilizes many existing local public companies. Since the decision of the Council of State, many prefects have invited SPLs to amend their statutes and the composition of the shareholding. This decision of the Council of State seems all the more absurd to us because one of the main interests of the SPLs was precisely the possibility, for territorial authorities of different levels, to form joint operators to manage a number of activities, in an efficient and efficient way. In my constituency, four SPLs are affected by the decision of the Council of State, particularly in the area of mobility and economic development. This is a political issue. That is why the MODEM Group considers it urgent to neutralise the effects of the Council of State's jurisprudence. There are, of course, other issues on local public companies, particularly in terms of transparency and regulation. A new study by the Court of Auditors is also under way, the consequences of which will have to be drawn in due course. I am confident that future legislative vehicles will effectively address these needs. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] However, we do not consider this to be the subject of this bill, which is based on urgency. For these reasons, the MODEM Group would like this text to be adopted in conformity, so as to enter into force quickly, thereby securing the future of many local public companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u223	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u224	My remarks will start unequivocally: local public enterprises, or EPL, are an indispensable instrument for communities. They allow for the development of many projects through the sharing of forces and means, and are valuable for carrying out operations that a community alone would sometimes not be able to do. In an economic context where communities are being asked to be ever more efficient, to be more innovative, local public enterprises are often an indispensable tool for development and mutualization. Acting for tourism, urban planning, housing or culture, they are a reality in everyone's daily lives. Most of the active PLS are either ex nihilo creations allowing local authorities to intervene in new fields, such as renewable energy or digital energy, or transformations of already existing entities in other forms, to enable elected officials to retain control of them while introducing innovative management. These businesses are increasingly being used in our country by communities, who are willing to take advantage of this tool for the development of territories. Here, it is the importance and interest of the mixed economy that are demonstrated through these companies dedicated to carrying out operations of general interest. The qualitative and quantitative importance of local public enterprises will surely still be demonstrated through the central actions and the revitalization of the city centres: all these reasons allow us to affirm that the PLS have become, in less than ten years, a privileged instrument for modernising local public action. However, these companies have recently gone through a chaotic jurisprudential journey. Indeed, several administrative courts of appeal have issued contradictory decisions concerning the interpretation of Article L. 1531-1 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, stating that local authorities and their groups which create a local public company can only do so "within the framework of the powers conferred upon them by law". Courts ruled that the shareholders of an SPL should be entitled to all the powers grouped in the social object of the local public company, whereas other courts held that this obligation did not arise in any way from the above-mentioned article. Finally, the ruling of the Council of State of November 2018, which was to resolve this judicial divergence, plunged into uncertainty the 1300 active EPLs in our country. The Council of State has had a particularly restrictive interpretation of the compatibility relationship between, on the one hand, the powers of the communities or their groups of shareholders of an SPL and, on the other hand, the social purpose of this SPL, especially when it is known that the majority of these companies are capitalized by communities or groups of communities that do not have all the powers to which the very object of these companies relates. The legislators responsible for the early laws on PLS issued a statement explicitly stating that the interpretation made by the Council of State was absolutely not in line with their intentions. This decision, which interpreted the conditions for community participation in PLEs far too closely, also hampered the growth of PLEs. In the field, many projects could not be created or were blocked. The consequences of this decision by the Council of State have therefore been real and very problematic for many communities. Therefore, the bill initiated by Senator Hervé Marseille and defended by our rapporteur can only be welcomed. Very pragmatically, it aims to respond quickly to a specific problem that cannot be sustained. Our group therefore fully supports this initiative. We know that the territories are waiting for the legislator to make an effective and speedy decision. We heard some concerns during the hearings, in particular about the uncertainty about the single competence and the possible risks of misappropriation of the legal allocation of powers. We don't share them. In order to alleviate fears, it may be useful to make it clear here that the legislator's will is not to open the door to the ownership of companies which, for example, hold only a small part of the powers which contribute to the realization of the social object. Nor is it a question of revisiting the rule that a community does not have the right to do, through a local mixed economy corporation or a local public corporation, what it cannot do on its own. The change in the legal framework of local public enterprises is also necessary, we do not deny it. In 2015, the Court of Auditors already noted the shortcomings of the legal and accounting framework. In particular, their transparency mechanisms need to be rethought. This is not called into question, but cannot be the subject of this bill. The amendments voted in the Senate have already made it possible to clarify the text, without going beyond what is strictly necessary. Thus, the proposal as it came to the House is satisfactory and does not require any amendment. Thanks to this text, it is a legal vacuum that is filled for the preservation of this valuable tool of local public enterprises. Moreover, in the face of urgency, a vote in accordance with this particular problem is highly desirable. This bill is not intended to cover the whole scope of the regulation of PLEs and Parliament is not closed to future discussions on the subject. It will certainly be appropriate, in a second stage, to establish ethics and transparency within the EPLs. For the moment, it is a matter of not putting an unfair brake on a device that has proved its worth. In order to fully exercise their powers, communities need PLEs, which cannot be called into question by a decision of the Council of State. I would also like to point out that PLEs are an extension of communities, allowing local elected representatives a certain autonomy of action in their territory. At a time when we are promised better decentralization, the rapid rescue of these companies would be welcome. In the current political context, it does not seem appropriate to block community activity. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LaREM and MODEM groups]] For example, legal, economic, political and public interest considerations are shared in favour of the proper adoption of the bill before us today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u225	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u226	[[Smile]] I will be brief, as this text does not require a long comment: it aims to adjust the regulations in force in order to authorize certain activities of local public and mixed economy companies. It should be noted, however, that the current problems had their source in a debate in March 1791, during which freedom of trade and industry had been enshrined as superior to the concept of the general interest. As a result, a local mixed economy company or a local public company can only be created by derogating from this principle of freedom of trade and industry. The public interest must be established, otherwise the administrative judge could break any DIY – that is the exact word. The European Treaties have, moreover, enshrined free and undistorted competition by placing it at the top of the hierarchy of standards. There are therefore several conceptions of the local public society or of the local mixed economy society. It is possible to view it as an extension of public action – a concept that satisfies everyone here. Where the private sector could have acted as a predator, the public service, the public action, the local authorities stand up: the general interest is defended, since the communities themselves constitute companies governed by private law. For my part, I do not agree with this logic, and I think there are other ways of promoting the general interest. It is problematic to claim the general clause of jurisdiction and to see it reduced to a legal DIY because of the treaties and the loss of the battle of March 1791 to make the general interest prevail over everything. In addition, these structures can sometimes be a means of circumventing the rules of public procurement: it is boring to compete when one could arrange with a company that satisfies us more – as has happened on several occasions. More than that, they can be used to replenish a number of unfortunate elected officials who would not have been able to win the votes of the voters; It can be seen quite often!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u227	What a caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u228	Amendments aimed at increasing the transparency of the remuneration of the officials of these companies have been tabled, not without foundation, by a colleague from the La République group on the move: that is to say, if the subject is real!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u229	Yet they often defend unreal ideas!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u230	That is true, but in this case it is not! In fact, I have come to reaffirm a position of principle. In the world as it is, it is best that this text be adopted:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u231	It's a lesser evil, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u232	... it allows local public companies, existing mixed economy companies and those that will be created to avoid the risk of predation by the private market. But there must be a reminder in this House that there is nothing more than free and undistorted competition, the supremacy of freedom of trade and industry and the treaties that govern us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u233	That's why these establishments exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u234	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Political forces are demanding, for example, the exit of treaties. This is the case of France's insoubtedness and the list we are presenting for the European elections. I hope she gets as much support as possible! In fact, we prefer the governance model, especially when it includes public service users. The return to water management in public governance is one of the battles led by one of my comrades, Gabriel Amard. Water is a fundamental issue and the object of all possible and imaginable speculations. This battle is more than admirable, but sown with pitfalls. Today, there is no preference for governance. In fact, one of our amendments provides that, in order to create a local public society, it is necessary to have proved the impossibility of establishing a government. If you really have a preference for managing public service missions, demonstrate it! This is not an impediment to doing, but an obligation to verify, before outsourcing to the private sector, that it is impossible to do so internally. If I were pernicious and dishonest, which I am not – not always – I would say that this text prefigures the public service transformation bill: by definition, these structures manage public service and public service missions by applying the rules of the private sector. There is a clear interest in contractualizing public employment and in using private law contracts rather than statutory civil servants. [[Sébastien Jumel applauds]] These are the reasons for my opposition to the logic behind local public and mixed-economy companies. You can believe this, because it is in line with the European treaties and the rules of competition, but we believe that we need to give the country a different perspective than that of free and undistorted competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u235	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u236	Local public enterprises are an indispensable lever of economic action for local public actors. They have now become a privileged instrument for the dynamism of local public action. As the report points out, as of 1 June 2018, France had 1300 local public enterprises in operation, including 925 mixed economy companies – SEM –, 16 single-operation mixed economy companies and 359 local public companies. There were 67 creations in 2018 alone, and 166 creation projects are under way; That is, if the sector is dynamic! I would add that the latter employs 65300 people, with a turnover of 13.9 billion euros. These enterprises bring together local authorities at different levels. The use of local public enterprises seems to be widespread regardless of local particularities. All local and regional authorities, regardless of their size, are now using it. Some allow communities to intervene in new areas, such as renewable energy or digital energy, others, resulting from transformations of already existing entities, allow elected officials to come together to carry out complementary tasks previously carried out by several organizations, particularly in the mobility or revitalization of cities. However, uncertainties and concerns have recently emerged regarding the way in which the capital of these companies is to be built up. On 14 November 2018, the Council of State issued a decision which could have disastrous consequences for many local public enterprises and their shareholders. This decision establishes a direct link between the competence of the community and the social object of society. The Council of State favours a restrictive interpretation of the law, considering that "the participation of a territorial authority or a group of territorial authorities in a local public company, which gives it a seat on the board of directors or the supervisory board and necessarily has the effect of giving it the right to participate in the voting of decisions taken by those bodies, is excluded when that territorial authority or group of territorial authorities does not exercise all the powers over which the social object of the society relates. It states that, in order to be a shareholder of a local public company and, by extension, of a mixed-economy company, a community must have all the powers set out in the social object of the company. In other words, a community can only participate in the capital of a local public society if the whole social purpose of the society falls within the competence of the community. This is the difference between this decision of the Council of State and the reality of our territories, especially since, since the NOTRE Act of 7 August 2015, communities have been removed from the general jurisdiction clause. The consequence of this judgment is therefore to prohibit any form of cooperation between communities of different levels, except in areas where competences are shared, including tourism, sport or culture. This decision thus calls into question the possibility for local and regional authorities at different levels to form joint operators to manage complementary activities. Such a development is likely to weaken the 359 local public companies that have been established for the past 10 years. It would lead local authorities to go so far as to exclude, in certain circumstances, their own PLS. Having been elected more local than parliamentary, and having presided over EPLs...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u237	You're from the old world!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u238	Yes, in a way! In my constituency, nine cities are grouped into the first community of agglomeration created in Île-de-France: Plaine Commune, which has now become a territorial public establishment. We have two SEMs, which have become two local public enterprises. On the board of directors of these EPLs are the nine cities and the territory as such. These companies mainly carry out development operations that fall within the jurisdiction of the territories. In order to cope, in particular, with the population growth generated by these operations, approximately two elementary school groups are built each year at the agglomeration level. In most cases, these groups are built by the EPL on behalf of the cities, since they are competent for school facilities. If the decision of the Council of State were to be applied in the letter, cities should be excluded from the governance of local public development enterprises and one or more other local public infrastructure undertakings should be established to build school groups or gymnasiums. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] It is clear that this decision is far from the reality of our territories, and does not make it possible to properly rationalize public tools: rather than having two PLEs in complementary fields, we would need four or five with different governance systems. In addition, in financial terms, it would be difficult to allocate the revenues from development operations to the financing of capital operations on behalf of cities. All this is completely unreasonable in terms of local dynamism, the development of local public enterprises and the complementarity of competences. For all these reasons, we consider this bill to be relevant. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u239	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u240	As the minister has said, we are not discussing a trivial issue this evening, which proves that bills can be an opportunity to address important issues. Mr. Little recalled that the sector generated nearly EUR 14 billion in turnover and employed 65,000 people. The Senate and the Assembly worked in a mirror, under the leadership of the president of the Union centriste du Sénat group, chaired by Hervé Marseille, and with the important contribution of Loïc Hervé. The Libertés et territoires group, based on its various territorial identities...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u241	Very diverse!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u242	...and the experiences of its elected officials rooted in their constituency, is attached to the formidable development of the territories. Madam Minister, you, who have been a deeply-rooted local elected official and who are familiar with the entire metropolitan and overseas territory, will not be surprised by this speech. The territories live and develop because there are strong territorial communities. Moreover, the lesson to be drawn from past months is that the increased need for proximity requires strong local and regional authorities with greater capacity for initiative, innovation and creativity. The state can give broad guidelines, but local elected representatives must be able to make proposals to respond to the best of our citizens and to meet the challenges: as Mr. Little at the moment has said, in the field of culture, education, the economy, the ecological transition – of which everyone speaks without necessarily knowing how to act – we will not be able to do so if territorial communities do not have powerful tools such as PLEs. Madam Minister, you referred very precisely to the current context and the urgency of the situation: we must therefore vote in conformity. Otherwise, we would risk creating legal uncertainty. In addition, many questions arise. We can't just wait a few years to see how things are going! The reports of the Court of Auditors and the Inspectorate of Finance, the mission carried out by Eric Woerth and the analyses of the Council of State are in the same direction. But, ladies and gentlemen, our job is also to ensure that, when we have a vision for a certain form of public action, it is not dismantled by legal authorities and, if we have failed to legislate, we must consider how to ensure better legal certainty and avoid being in a situation of fragility. It is also Parliament's honour to be able, at one time or another, to make a stop on the image to see what has been badly prepared at first and which can then be corrected. You have understood that we will of course support this initiative and that we will not add complexity to the complexity. I will nevertheless defend the amendments that I have tabled, because we need to open debates, and I will take all my responsibilities at the time of the vote, so that this text can be voted in conformity, as the Government has already made very strong commitments to ensure that it will come back quickly on this subject and make known to us the contours of its evolution, particularly on two key issues. First of all, since the state is asking communities to be more efficient and not overly in debt – agreements have even been signed with large communities – it is normal for us to find ourselves in a position to consolidate deficits, whether they be those of the communities directly or linked to participations in local public institutions. Otherwise, it is understood that it could be a derivative. Control must be exercised for all public actors, including, of course, local and regional authorities, but also PLEs. So this is an important issue that we cannot sweep away. All the comments made to us by the State control bodies, in particular by Parliament speaking through the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, therefore seem to be in the right direction. Secondly, I will mention transparency. This is normal for parliamentarians who see their income capped. The functioning of the PLS must be as transparent as possible – there is no need for them to escape any form of control, and this too will contribute to the confidence that our fellow citizens will place in public actors, whether they are responsible for the government of France, deliberative assemblies or large communities. We will not be able to escape this question and there is no reason for some to be subject to rules to which others would not be subject. I would like to stress the rapporteur's initiative: these are real debates, which we must open between ourselves and which must then be concluded. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] If we adopt this bill in accordance with it, Parliament will have done a useful job. I am also thinking of all the actions that have been launched, of the 65,000 employees and of the 14 billion activities to which the minister referred. The Libertés et Territoire Group will therefore vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u243	Mrs Hélène Zannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u244	The local public enterprise is one of many tools available to local authorities to carry out their policies and develop their innovations. It brings together the benefits of the private sector and the values of the public, while providing communities with flexible and yet transparent management practices. It allows the control of public expenditure and is subject to control by the State services – even if, obviously, some things need to be improved in this respect. The general interest is also guaranteed, since the shareholders are public. The local anchor, above all, is preserved, as local public institutions provide services to local communities, territories and their inhabitants. Finally, a pooling of resources between communities is possible through this. These various advantages explain the success of local public enterprises in the communities: in fact, there are almost 1300 in our country, with nearly 70 000 employees. On 14 November 2018, Conseil d'État decided that, in order to be a shareholder of a local public corporation, a territorial authority must have all the powers to which the subject matter of the company relates. This new interpretation of the law was a shock, because the practice was very different: local authorities adhered to an SPL if one of their competences corresponded to the social purpose of the SPL. There was not, or very rarely, a complete match between the competences involved in the social purpose of the SPL and those of the shareholder community. As the case law stands, the majority of these companies would therefore be unlawful. In the wake of the Council of State ruling, some Prefects warned the PLS of the risk of illegality on the constituent acts of these companies, which today prevents any evolution of their capital and hinders investment. In the same way, the actions of these SPLs are exposed to a significant risk of litigation, as third parties evicted from a contract for the benefit of a SPL could challenge the award by questioning the legality of the formation of that company. Finally, the solution adopted by the Council of State prevents a municipality and an EPCI from cooperating within the same local public undertaking, which is not in line with the idea that this tool, supposed to promote local cooperation, can be achieved. It is therefore the whole sector of the mixed economy that is put at risk by this decision. Senator Hervé Marseille has therefore tabled a bill, adopted unanimously by the Senate, aimed at countering the decision of the Council of State by specifying that a community may be a shareholder of an SPL if the realization of the social object of that society contributes to the exercise of at least one of its powers. It is therefore a matter of the interpretation made by the local and regional authorities. Section 4 specifies that the Act applies to previously incorporated corporations and therefore has retroactive effect. While the Government did not disagree with this principle, it had, however, tabled amendments to narrow the proposed definition somewhat. In this way, he asks that the powers of the shareholder community must correspond to a "significant and regular share" of the company's activity. The Senate refused these proposals. For him, introducing a criterion such as the reference to a "significant share" of the activity is tantamount to relying on the prefect and the judge to interpret and control its application. However, the purpose of the proposed law is precisely to ensure the legal certainty of the shareholders of the SPLs by avoiding any new destabilizing legal interpretation. This bill has been taken up by the MODEM group for adoption without amendment, so that it will enter into force as soon as possible. To adopt a text different from that of the Senate would be to postpone the solution of a current and urgent problem for too long. The text is certainly perfect, and we will all agree. In this way, very interesting amendments have been proposed for greater transparency. They are, however, called upon to contribute to future reflection. We are awaiting a report from the Court of Auditors and the Federation of Local Public Enterprises has announced the publication of a White Paper to take stock of the current challenges facing the sector. A reform of the legal regime for local public enterprises is undoubtedly desirable, but the discussions are still ahead and will have to be coordinated. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In view of the importance of the issues to the mixed economy sector and the political consensus that can now be reached, the parliamentary group The Republic is in the process of adopting this bill in the form adopted by the Senate, in order to find a solution as soon as possible to what is currently a matter of great concern to our communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u245	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u246	As many have already pointed out, this technical text is intended to reverse a case law that could undermine a system through which communities can fight, develop the territory and organize themselves to meet the challenges of our time. In the preamble to this speech, I would like to commend the work done by the Federation of Local Public Enterprises, chaired by our colleague Jean-Marie Sermier, to alert us to the consequences of the Council of State's decision of 14 November 2018 and to prepare with the senators and then with the deputies an acceptable legal response. [[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This bill was, of course, tabled on February 7 by Hervé Marseille of the Centralist Union, but it is co-signed, I would like to emphasize, by representatives of almost all the Senate groups – including our colleague Antoine Lefèvre of the Republican Group. MODEM took advantage of its parliamentary niche to put the text on the agenda of the National Assembly and I would like to thank it for that. It was probably, given the political functioning of our assembly, the only effective and rapid way to discuss it. It is indeed likely that, had another group seized of it, the consensus that prevails today around this text would have been more difficult to achieve, in accordance with what, for reasons that we have difficulty in understanding, has become a use in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u247	That's a free statement!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u248	This coordination with our fellow senators and the use of the reserved order of the day is also proof that parliamentary work and initiative can be quick and effective tools – in this case, probably far more effective than a government initiative, for which there was, in fact, no place on our agenda. Without going back to the context, which was widely discussed by the previous speakers – the 1300 local companies involved in France, the 65300 jobs represented by these companies and their almost 14 billion euros of annual turnover – I will only point out that we are discussing here a technical provision linked to a particularly taunted legal interpretation of the Council of State, an interpretation which seems not only disconnected from the intention of the legislator expressed in the vote on Article L. 1521-1 of the General Code of Territorial Authorities, but also to reflect an incomprehension of what the role and functioning of local public enterprises – local public companies or mixed economy companies – can be in spatial planning. This purely legal reading is completely disconnected from the reality of action on the ground. Even if the object of the society is restricted, it often takes a little bit of time to carry out concrete planning or service, which leads to the enlargement of the statutes. Consequently, the decision of the Council of State, according to which local authorities can act only if they are competent for the entire competence of the local public undertaking, leads to an impasse. I also want to express my concern at the zeal shown by the administration, both central and decentralized, in disseminating this jurisprudence of the Council of State. Indeed, one could have imagined a more nuanced and less firm reaction on his part. However, it has been quick to warn a number of local public enterprises, through the prefects, of the risk they face, thereby endangering many of the very concrete planning operations expected by our fellow citizens. The proposed law, consisting of five articles, responds to the risk created by the Council of State by introducing some flexibility and specifying what can be done by a local public company or a SEM. It also states that SEMs and SPLs are in no way the tools of one guardianship exercised by one community over another – this is certainly what is most irritating in the decision of the Council of State – but, on the contrary, those of collaboration. It is not because different levels of communities are found in one local society and because the share they represent in the ownership is different that one community will exercise one tutelage over the other. It seems to me important to remind him. Finally, I would like to place this discussion within the framework of the European Union. Indeed, the law of local public enterprises is largely driven by European law, in particular competition law – it is also European competition law that led France, a few years ago, to create the local public company, whereas only the status of SEM existed before. There are 1300 local public enterprises in our country, which is both high and low, compared to some of our European neighbours. Germany is home to 8500 local public enterprises, with a turnover of 251 billion euros and more than 1 million jobs. That is to say, these tools are interesting for the development and competitiveness of our territories, in the context of the competition which opposes them in terms of attractiveness. Of course, the statutes differ from country to country. In this regard, Madam Minister, I cannot fail to mention the particular case of the project to create a cross-border EMS in my area of Fessenheim, to counter the economic tragedy of closing the nuclear power plant – obviously, not as much as we hope, not at the level of the needs of the territory. However, it is the only tool available to us to show voluntarism in spatial planning. Unfortunately, if we improve national law a little on the constitution of the SEMs, the political will to establish a Franco-German cross-border SEM will face legal obstacles. Although the local public enterprise often pursues the same objectives in France and Germany, it does not meet the same legal characteristics, which will lead to a number of difficulties, at least in France. The Republicans will support this bill, which enshrines above all the desire to give territorial authorities strong capacity to act to develop the territory, equip it and support it in its transformations. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] On the other hand, we will oppose any attempt to amend the text of the Law Commission, because we want to move quickly, reach consensus with the Senate in order to obtain a fair vote and a speedy entry into force of the law. When we look at the texts that the Government promises on the reform of local authorities – more or less important, hoped for, or fearful of – local authorities, we will be able to come back to such matters as the transparency of the governance of local societies, which we consider to be particularly relevant, or other technical provisions. What we believe is essential today is to reach a vote that is consistent with the text of our friends in this chamber, which has already been the subject of a substantial, intelligent work in the service of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u249	Mrs Liliana Tanguy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u250	Local public and mixed-economy companies are at the heart of this bill. These two forms of state-owned enterprises pursue a mission of general interest and occupy a prominent place in the territories. They make it possible to carry out a multitude of projects, particularly in the fields of tourism, culture and spatial planning. As has been said, they are a valuable tool for local and regional authorities to carry out their tasks. Their activity is the key to the dynamism and development of all our territories. This bill is of paramount importance. It follows a decision of the Conseil d'État of 14 November 2018, which weakened local public enterprises by stating that a territorial authority can only participate in the capital of a local public company if it has all the powers to which the social object of the company relates. For local actors, this judgment constitutes a genuine challenge to the development and stability of all local public enterprises. In order to improve and clarify this case law, the proposed law provided the territorial authorities with the opportunity to become shareholders of a local public company or a mixed economy company, provided that those communities had jurisdiction not to cover the entire activity, but at least one of the company's activities. However, the Government has tabled an amendment at a public sitting in the Senate to clarify that local authorities may participate in the capital of a local public company provided that they have at least one jurisdiction over which the social object of the company relates and to which the company devotes a "significant and regular share" of its activity. The amendment was rejected by the Senate, but many local authorities fear the adoption of an amendment drafted in these terms in the National Assembly. It is our duty today to protect local public societies, which are essential parts of the economy of our territories, by retaining the initial drafting of the bill. Adopting this amendment could further weaken local, existing or future public companies, leaving much room for interpretation of the terms "significant share". The vagueness surrounding this formulation is too important and poses a danger to the future of local public companies. As a Member of Parliament for Finistère, I will take the example of the SPL Destination Pays bigouden sud, created by the community of communes of the Pays bigouden sud and its communes, whose social object is the development of tourism. Since the NOTRE law – on the new territorial organization of the Republic – the competence for tourism has been shared by the community of communes and municipalities. The community of municipalities owns 80% of the SPL's shares under the competence of tourism promotion. If the government amendment, rejected in the Senate, were adopted by our assembly, the municipalities, which hold only 20 per cent of the shares in their so-called "general" competence in tourism, would be in an illegal situation. The community of communes of the South Bigouden Country and its communes fear, like many communities in all our territories, the proliferation of disputes and disputes that would result from this new situation. That is why we must maintain the status quo and adopt the text in the drafting of the Senate, in order to close this jurisprudential debate and allow communities to exercise all or part of the powers that the social purpose of local public corporations or mixed-economy corporations, which, I would remind you, are the engines of territorial development. I would like to stress that the original draft law guarantees the requirement of complementarity between the various activities corresponding to the social purpose of a local public society; the condition of engagement of shareholders is explicitly linked to the exercise of at least one of the competences in relation to the social purpose of the local public company. It should also be recalled that the management of the social object by means of a local public company constitutes a delegation of tasks and not a transfer of powers. The management of the social object of a local public company is exercised by the public structure which constitutes it, depending on the nature of the jurisdiction held. The Government's willingness to maintain a balance between jurisdiction and ownership of shares is thus respected. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The Government's amendment, if adopted, would not only introduce some uncertainty, but would also create real legal uncertainty. It would be a risk to the survival of all local public enterprises, whether planned or already formed, and a real harm to our local authorities, and therefore our citizens. That is why I invite you, colleagues, to vote on this bill in the language adopted by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u251	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u252	In 2010, pushed by Community law, which is a very early stage in the development of PLS, the Parliament adopted a bill "for the development of local public companies". Territorial authorities may, since that date, become shareholders of companies to which they entrust the operation of public service tasks. Without any advertising or competition measures, public authorities have the freedom to enter into contracts with a local company in accordance with Community requirements. Perhaps they have used, sometimes too much, this particular prerogative, since the status of the PLS, as we know, derogates from the code of public order. However, one very positive point has to be noted: they have strengthened their capacity for action, their responsiveness, their adaptation to local realities, so that it is unthinkable to dispense with these tools which have transformed the way in which public action is carried out. This exception to the rules of public order, however, remains highly regulated by Community law. These companies must operate exclusively on behalf of their shareholders and in the territory of the communities or groups of shareholders which are members of them. As soon as it was adopted, the creation of local public companies was very successful. In fact, eight years later, nearly 1,300 local public and mixed-economy companies are in operation – some of which are likely to have made excessive use of multi-activity or multi-share ownership, which is one of the main topics we are dealing with today. It is probably because of these few excesses that, on 14 November last, the Council of State decided a wide-ranging legal debate, fuelled by conflicting jurisdictional decisions, concerning the social purpose of local public companies. The Lyon Administrative Court of Appeal had, for example, admitted that there could be a gap between the powers of the communities and the tasks entrusted to the company, provided that the predominant part of the missions did not go beyond the sphere of competence of the public shareholders. This concept was likely to save some local public companies, while clearly aiming at the excesses found on the part of some of them. In keeping with a strict and literal reading, the Council of State has adopted a suspicious interpretation, perhaps inspired by the general management of local authorities. Thus, it considered that a territorial community could participate in the capital of a local public corporation if, and only if, its entire activity fell within the competence of that local public corporation. In doing so, it has weakened local public and mixed economy societies. This frailty has been recognised by the public rapporteur. She was well aware of the difficulty and uncertainty that would arise for local public corporations, and told the Council of State that the law would certainly need to be amended. That is the purpose of the bill that we are considering today. This text is intended to remove the danger that threatened many PLS, of which no one should forget that they generate 276000 jobs in France. By deleting the reference to the notion of "competence" defining the scope of these societies, the uncertainties and insecurity of many projects in France are clearly eliminated. As some administrative courts had admitted, the draft law laid down the principle of shared jurisdiction and no longer required that the social object correspond to all the powers of public shareholders. This new principle removes the questions raised by the expression of the Council of State. I will not introduce all the articles, since the speakers who preceded me have done so. I would simply point out that Article 1 supplements the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, specifying, on the one hand, that, if the object of a company includes several activities, they must be complementary, and, on the other hand, that each of the shareholders must have at least one jurisdiction in common. This provision therefore precludes the jurisprudence of the Council of State. In order to prevent local mixed-economy companies from finding themselves in a situation comparable to that experienced today by some local public companies, Article 2 provides clarifications which we believe are necessary as to their status. Finally, Article 3 extends the provisions of the draft law to public development companies. [[Applause on the SOC benches, as well as on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] All of these reasons lead us to support the text, already adopted by the Senate, in the hope that it will resolve the issue once and for all and put an end to the legal uncertainties affecting PLS.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u253	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u254	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u255	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u256	The newly created SPLs have become indispensable tools for the municipalities, especially for the groupings of municipalities. Public enterprises are tools for the development of our territories in many areas, such as tourism, the environment, culture, planning, and even housing. However, the decision of the Council of State weakens much of the PLS. Prefects have already asked some of them to bring themselves into line with this case law, which threatens their existence. How many communities participate in a PLS without having the full range of skills that the social purpose of society relates to? It is therefore urgent to adopt Article 1 and, more broadly, the whole bill, in a manner that is consistent, because the legislator must act quickly. I have listened to you, minister, and I have heard your arguments: the Government can very well prepare a more comprehensive and successful bill, which would propose adjustments after taking the time for consultation, but without delay, because we must not allow the jurisprudence of the Council of State time to weaken the PLS.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u257	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u258	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u259	I wanted to add an argument to those, excellent, developed by my colleague Stéphane Peu. Local public companies provide, outside metropolitan areas and large development areas, relevant prerogatives to local authorities. Moreover, it seems to me that, even since the NOTRE Act, the general clause of jurisdiction has not been removed from the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u260	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u261	You confirm that, Madam Minister. [[Exclaims and smiles on several benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] The development and equipping of the municipalities, as well as the future of their inhabitants, may make a community want to be involved in the missions of an SPL. That is why the jurisprudence of the Council of State must be corrected. We differ from our colleague Ugo Bernalicis because we have management experience; We're putting our hands in the cobblestone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u262	You're breaking up with the art of governing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u263	[[Smile on MODEM benches]] [[Applause on several benches in the MODEM group]] I say it without making fun of myself. When Ugo Bernalicis becomes Mayor of Lille, he will have the same point of view as me on the SPLs, so don't laugh too much! He will be aware that PLS is a good tool to prevent the market from taking over everything and to keep communities in control of development and equipment issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u264	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u265	That is the stakes of the local public companies that I wanted to recall here.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u266	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor to support Amendment No. 1 to delete the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u267	The defence of this amendment is an opportunity to respond to my colleague Sébastien Jumel. You have understood the principled position of the group, but tomorrow, in charge of a local community, I will voluntarily set up an SPL to prevent the private sector from vamping an area, because that is the framework offered to mayors. But here, I'm acting as a legislator and I'm thinking about how to develop an alternative. You would be right to say that freedom of trade and industry is guaranteed in this country, as is free and undistorted competition under the European Treaties. You could question me: "How! Do you want public authorities to unfairly compete with the private sector, and that freedom of trade is called into question? " Well, yes, I think so fundamentally. I defend this idea once again, which must be said, pronounced, written and entered in the Official Journal. There is no unanimism about the functioning of local public services. While it is a matter of guaranteeing the general interest, in a local public company, it is necessary to hire employees under private contract; the persons at the head of these companies are not civil servants, unless they are on secondment, but nevertheless governed by a contract of private law and by the Labour Code. Therefore, it is not possible to complete the process in the current framework. However, I want to go to the end of the process, because I am defending the general interest and the public service provided by public servants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u268	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u269	I will repeat my remarks in committee and take note of our disagreement, Mr Bernalicis: as a matter of principle, you refuse to accept the existence of the EPLs. The bill does, however, make consensus on the political stage, since all senators voted for it and everyone supports it, other than your group, in the National Assembly. I will make the same observation for your other deletion amendments, which will save us time. These cooperation tools make it possible to make public service at the local level. Comparable structures exist in Europe, nor do we agree on Europe. Let us take note of this other disagreement! You mentioned the rules in the general discussion. The management of public service in government may have virtues, but the experience of which Mr. Jumel spoke shows that the alternative offered by local public enterprises is sometimes useful. I therefore express an opinion which is unfavourable to all the deletion amendments that you have tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u270	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u271	He's unfavorable. The proposed law is not at all in line with privatisation and does not alter the nature of the activities that can be entrusted to a local public enterprise. Moreover, it aims to secure the SPLs, whose shareholding, I would remind you, is entirely public.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u272	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u273	Mr rapporteur, thank you for taking note of the disagreements that actually exist. There is no misunderstanding of the text or of the issues at stake. With your ideological software and in your place, I would probably have done the same thing as you; But being not in this situation, I maintain that another political imagination and another management of local public services are possible. I'm here to call him back.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u274	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u275	Mr Bernalicis, in your amendment, the problem is not ideology, but dogma. The art of governing is to take account of realities and to influence them in terms of, of course, an ideology, an idea and a political project, but also of realities. Our discussion is about reality, not a dream that would be uncompromisingly deployed in a territory. This is where your amendment becomes dangerous. [[Applause on several MODEM benches]] This amendment echoes other amendments to the abolition of France, which treat SEM, SPL and SPLA in the same way, although there are fundamental differences between them. The shareholders of a local public company are all public – we could at least agree on this point in our understanding of the real – when the legal regime of the mixed economy society allows the local development of certain private actors to enter into play. This is not at all the same, because the missions and services of these two tools differ. It is a pity to reduce the discussion, a little technical but so important for the planning of our territories, to principles which are not a matter of ideology, Mr Bernalicis, but of dogma.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u276	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u277	I have already tabled this amendment in the general discussion. Mr rapporteur, I have read with great interest your report, in which you state that "It is not necessary to amend the wording of the Senate, since the assumption feared by the Government would undoubtedly constitute an abuse of law on the part of the territorial community marginally interested in the activities of a local public enterprise, but which would nevertheless take an important part in its capital. The bill has neither the purpose nor the effect of lowering the rules for the division of powers between communities." Further on in your report, I read that "there can be no mission in the social purpose of a SEM, SPL or SPLA that is not within the jurisdiction of at least one collective shareholder. Indeed, the legal provision that the creation of such companies remains subject to the powers of the communities and groups is maintained." [[Applause on several benches of MODEM, UDI-Agir, LT and LR groups]] Beyond reading your report, I have listened to your presentation of the text, and it seems to me that we agree on the substance, which you will certainly confirm to me. If that were the case, I would withdraw the amendment, as well as the other two, in order to arrive at the correct vote that many Members have called for.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u279	I will make a reading which will appear a little academic in the eyes of some, but which is necessary for the record to allow the review of legality to function. This is an issue on which I have been explicit in committee, which was included in my report and which I have just outlined again in the presentation of the text. I consider, as my colleague in the Senate, Loïc Hervé, who stated in a public session, that there is no fear of a PLE exercising powers that none of his shareholders have. I quote Article 1 of the text: "The realization of this object contributes to the exercise of at least one competence of each of the shareholders". This clearly means that the social object cannot aim at orphan competence. I would like to repeat this again so that you consider, Madam Minister, the intention of the legislator and that you may mention it in a circular addressed to the review of legality. The administrative courts will also have to take this into account. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Having understood from your remarks that you would withdraw your two other amendments if you withdrew this one, I would like to discuss another point. The Government wishes to be reassured as to the adequacy of the activity of an EPL with the competences of a territorial shareholder community. I understand this all the more because, on this issue, the rapporteur of the Senate had put forward a desire for clarity in the drafting of the law, which I obviously agree with, but which had not given rise to an argument on the substance. The fear you mentioned is that, through an EPL, a community with little interest in the social object being pursued will invest considerable amounts in order to circumvent the legal division of powers between the different levels of the community. I wrote in my report: "It is not necessary to change the wording of the Senate, since the assumption feared by the Government would undoubtedly be an abuse of law by the territorial community marginally interested in the activities of a local public enterprise, but which would nevertheless take a significant share in its capital. The bill has neither the purpose nor the effect of lowering the rules for the division of powers between communities." Again, I believe that this expression of the intention of the legislator removes all ambiguities. I would add that this seems preferable to the notion of "significant and regular share of the activity" in your amendment. Indeed, we do not know exactly what this significantness corresponds to, or what it relates to – expenditure, turnover, jobs or profits of the EPL. That is why I am asking you to withdraw the amendment, as well as the other two that you have tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u280	Minister, the situation is a little unusual. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u281	Indeed, but this is how democratic life goes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u282	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u283	[[Applause on several benches of MODEM, UDI-Agir, LT and LR groups]] I would like once again to thank the rapporteur. To confirm this legal regime, I will have to draw up an interpretative circular, which I will send to the Prefects, in the spirit we have just developed. The amendment was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u284	Mrs Danièle Obono's amendment No. 2, which would delete the article, was being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u285	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u286	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LT groups]] I'm withdrawing it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u287	Amendment No 3 by Mr Ugo Bernalicis, which would delete the article, is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u288	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u289	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u290	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u291	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u292	Without wanting to prolong our debates,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u293	A little though!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u294	... especially since I will intervene in the examination of the following text,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u295	An important text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u296	...I see this evening a certain enthusiasm, and even a form of cheerfulness in the ranks of the majority, which inspires me two observations. [[Exclaims and laughs on the benches of the MODEM group]] We are three weeks away from the European elections. Let the Government make an opening concession with respect to MODEM, I can understand that. May this good behaviour of the minister and her ability to hear Parliament make jurisprudence!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u297	As always with Mrs. Gourault!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u298	[[Smile]] This is often the case, indeed. Minister, I want you to influence your government colleagues. Their habit here is not to take into account the views of parliamentarians or to withdraw a government amendment. I hope that you will be able to contaminate your government colleagues with your ability to listen to Parliament, especially when it comes to examining the texts tabled at the initiative of the Communist Group in the context of a parliamentary niche. This is what inspires me this moment of calm and voluptuousness among the ranks of the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u299	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u300	I'm withdrawing it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u301	Amendment No 4 by Mrs Danièle Obono, calling for the deletion of the article, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u302	We come to the amendments on the additional article after Article 4. I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 7 and 14. Mr Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No 7, and perhaps even Amendments Nos 8 and 9, if he agrees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u303	With pleasure, Madam President. Minister, as I indicated in the general discussion – you yourself have addressed the subject – it is important that local public companies, like local authorities, be able to publish their accounts. In the name of the trust and transparency that must guide French political life – I remember a text voted here in July 2017 to which you were very attached – it is important that they have a capacity of expertise, which is essential to consolidate their action in a very transparent way. Similarly, the remuneration of elected officials on the board of directors of a local public company, that of directors and its other members should be subject, as is the case for local authorities, to the strictest rules of transparency. [[Ms. Justine Benin applauds]] That is the spirit of the three amendments. As I said earlier, I would like the debate to take place. At the end of the debate, I will withdraw them, so that we can vote together on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u304	Mr Guillaume Kasbarian has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u305	It is identical to the previous one. As many of our colleagues have rightly pointed out, local public enterprises are a tool of decentralization with many advantages, including combining the performance of a company with the preservation of the general interest. This makes it possible to combine the quality of public services and the well-being of the inhabitants. It is good to ensure that it does not stop us meeting today, with a view to securing the ownership of local public enterprises, so that they continue to exist. This rescue may be an opportunity to correct some of the defects that some may have. As the Minister and the rapporteur have pointed out, the lack of transparency is one. This subject was addressed by the Court of Auditors in 2017 in a reference entitled "Inadequacies in the legal and accounting framework of local public enterprises". Amendment No 14 raises the problem of consolidated accounts, particularly with regard to the visibility of the overall debt of consolidated structures. At present, there is no record of the financial commitments of local authorities, taking into account local public enterprises and satellite structures. Thus, it becomes complex for citizens to have a clear, comprehensive and detailed understanding of the debts of local authorities, some of which use local public enterprises very intensively. However, making such consolidated financial documents is perfectly feasible. All listed companies publish consolidated accounts without any problem. The amendment therefore offers transparency to citizens, both as administrators and as taxpayers. Amendments Nos 15 and 16 are based on the same spirit: improving the transparency of local public enterprises. They're about their leaders. If a small investor can know in just a few clicks the amount of the remuneration of the employers of the company in which he wishes to invest, a taxpayer cannot know how much the directors of public enterprises are paid, which are financed in particular by his taxes. While listed companies must make public all the remuneration elements of their directors, for local public enterprises, there is no obligation. Private listed enterprises are therefore subject to a much higher degree of transparency than that applicable to publicly owned enterprises, and are most often run by elected officials. In order to remedy the problem, I propose two amendments. The aim of Amendment No 15 is to ensure transparency in the remuneration of employees in the management of local public enterprises, exactly the same as that in force in a listed company. Amendment No. 16 is an amendment of withdrawal, incorporating the provisions of an amendment presented to the Senate during the consideration of the bill for confidence in political life. It aims to limit the transparency of remuneration to elected officials in the management bodies of local public enterprises. I am waiting for the debate to take place. I will then agree with our colleague Philippe Vigier in order to avoid overloading the text and amending the wording adopted by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u306	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u307	These six amendments raise the issue of redefining the rules governing local public enterprises. This is a real subject, having led to the publication of an interim report by the Court of Auditors and a report by the General Inspectorate of Finance in the last 18 months. I will be very clear: I am in favour of this legal framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u308	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u309	I believe that the law applicable to local public enterprises is now lagging behind from this point of view, sometimes even when it comes to fully private companies. We need to deal with this issue. I will be happy to do so after the passage of this bill. I think this is a rather unfortunate moment, in the context of this parliamentary procedure. The bill was designed in the Senate by minority groups; It is on the agenda of the National Assembly as part of a parliamentary niche reserved for a minority group – even if it is associated with the majority. President Vigier knows exactly what this means: we have little time for debate and a lot of time, on the contrary, between every reading of the text. Despite our goodwill, extending the parliamentary shuttle for this bill would be a waste of time. On the basis of the recommendations of the Court of Auditors and the General Inspectorate of Finance, I believe that it is up to the Government to act, if only to submit the envisaged arrangements to the Council of State in advance, and to ensure that we do not expose local authorities to new traps. A reform of the mixed economy was adopted in 2002: it was a text that was worked out and defended by the Government and not drafted in its back. I believe that we must follow the same path in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u310	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u311	In addition, the Chairman of the Finance Committee asked the Court of Auditors to produce an investigation report on mixed-economy companies. President Migaud will come and present his recommendations to us on May 29 – so in a short time. We'll probably have to listen to him. In addition, during the hearings we have conducted, the Federation of EPLs has assured us that it is working on a White Paper, which will be published in early autumn and will include a chapter on transparency. In a few months' time, we will have a very comprehensive inventory, with perfectly operational recommendations. Very clearly, discussing on the basis of these documents will be a good thing. Finally, as you said, minister, we will have to consult with local elected officials and their representatives in advance. It seems to me that this is the approach that you are considering. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] I therefore suggest that the amendments should be withdrawn in the light of the information I have just given. I would add that their withdrawal does not mean that they are not interesting. We will have to look at the matter and work very seriously on it from the fall, when we have a complete state of affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u312	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u313	I would like to inform the national representative that the Government is fully committed to moving forward on the transparency side, which has just been mentioned by both sides. Once this text has been adopted, we intend to launch a dialogue with local authorities and local public enterprises. It seems to me wise to await the conclusions of the first President of the Court of Auditors, who will soon come to present them to the National Assembly. From the next day or the next day, we will put in place the above-mentioned consultation with a view to taking decisions and returning quickly to the Assembly in order to legislate to ensure the transparency of local public enterprises. Mr Vigier and Mr Kasbarian, if you would withdraw your amendments, that would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u314	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u315	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u316	On the basis of the very strong commitments made by the Minister to act the day after Didier Migaud presented the Court of Auditors' report, I withdraw the amendments. With the work of the Finance Committee of the National Assembly, conducted in cooperation with the General Inspectorate of Finance, we will be able to ensure that local public enterprises meet the criteria of requirement and transparency vis-à-vis our citizens, but also of consolidation of accounts, in order to avoid practices and abuses that everyone here knows – it is not a question of pointing the finger at them, it is a matter of efficiency for the local authorities. We'll work together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u317	Mr Guillaume Kasbarian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u318	I thank the rapporteur and the Minister for their comments. I have taken note that the transparency of local public enterprises is a central issue, taken to heart and considered serious and important by the rapporteur as well as by the Government. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Like our colleague Philippe Vigier, I withdraw my amendments, pending the Court of Auditors' report. We will be vigilant about the transparency of local public enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u319	Identical Amendments Nos 8 by Mr Philippe Vigier and 15 by Mr Guillaume Kasbarian are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u320	Identical Amendments Nos 9 by Mr Philippe Vigier and 16 by Mr Guillaume Kasbarian are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u321	Amendments Nos 5 and 6 may be presented in a consolidated format. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u322	[[Murmures on the benches of the MODEM group]] Madam Minister, as Mr Jumel pointed out earlier, the rest of the Government will have to be contaminated. For my part, I submitted an information report on the evaluation of the fight against financial crime, and no minister indicated that he was very interesting and that he was going to set up a dialogue. It is a pity: it deals with tax evasion and money laundering, a few billion that are walking around! I don't despair! Amendment No 5 is intended to ensure that local authorities conduct an analysis of the possibility of entrusting a service to a local authority before considering that it falls within the scope of a local public company or a local mixed economy company. It supports the preference for public governance. Amendment No 6 – we should all be in favour of it, but perhaps you will refer me to consultation, Madam Minister – is based on the following idea: if these are missions of general interest carried out on behalf of the public authorities, why then would the people working in these structures not be public law contractors? Rather, such a provision is in line with your interpretation of the law, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u323	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u324	[[Smile]] On the form, I take note, my colleague, that you have amended the wording of the amendment on management in the Rules of Procedure tabled in the Committee on Laws, in order to take account of the observation I made at that time. I was surprised that you preferred deliberation to an arrest. So I made the point you gave me! On the merits, the Committee's opinion remains unfavourable. Each territorial community must give priority to a particular form of public service management. The very nature of the deliberation is to explain the reasons for it. You are therefore asking for the adoption of a provision already relevant to the very nature of the deliberation. That is why I express an unfavorable opinion on Amendment No 5. As for Amendment No 6, we have also discussed it in committee. It seems to me to be a dogma problem. You say you want to expand the scope of the public service, but you are planning public law contractors and not public service employees. There's still something a little crazy about your writing. Moreover, this would not necessarily be very advantageous for staff, since public law contracts give priority to the public interest over that of the person employed. That is why I express an unfavorable opinion, as in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u325	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u326	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u327	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u328	Mr rapporteur, the nature of the debate is determined within the framework of the law. Therefore, if the law assigns it to limit the prior examination of the possibility of resorting to a public authority, it will be so! The freedom of some ends where the freedom of others begins... It seems to me that you have no argument on the substance, Mr rapporteur. [[Smile]] As for the amendment on public law contracts, I repeat what we have said in committee: it is a matter of baiting you. We go there crescendo, from private law contracts to public law contracts, then, why not, to civil servants! But this would be a rule-based operation, and I would refer you to Amendment No 5 – because our amendments are consistent. Thank you, Mr rapporteur, for the sincerity of your answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u329	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u330	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u331	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Erwan Balanant and others for an effective ban on electric fishing (No 1809, 1916).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u332	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u333	Madam President, we have 10 minutes before the afternoon sitting is adjourned; My own intervention lasts ten minutes. Half of the Chamber has already gone to eat! This text is important, and I consider that we may not start examining it until after the lunch break.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u334	[["We're here too! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr rapporteur, this point of order is somewhat embarrassing. It is not customary to terminate our work before 8 p.m. Mr. Minister's here, you're here...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u335	It's an important text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u336	You see me sorry, but we cannot subject our work to the presence of each other, and I cannot interrupt the session.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u337	Mr Erwan Balanant, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u338	It is a great honour for me to present this bill to you precisely today, when we are celebrating Europe Day. This text is part of a proposal for a regulation "on the conservation of fisheries resources and the protection of marine ecosystems through technical measures" adopted on 16 April in the European Parliament by an overwhelming majority of 571 votes to 60. The discussion of this text takes place under the sign of an effective and protective European Union, both socially and environmentally, and of a national representation capable of seizing the opportunities offered by this Europe. At the end of an associative and political struggle, this proposal for a regulation prohibits, from 1 July 2021, electric fishing in the waters of the European Union. This text allows us to prohibit this technique of fishing in our territorial sea as soon as the regulation comes into force – for the least marine of us, I would remind you that the territorial sea is the 12 nautical miles that border our coastline. In 2018, our Assembly was more united and determined on this subject: on 6 March, we unanimously adopted the European motion for a resolution by our colleague Joachim Son-Forget on the ban on electric fishing. On 30 April, the Committee on Economic Affairs adopted this bill unanimously. This unanimity and efficiency illustrate what is best for our assembly: its ability to overcome partisan divisions when the ecological emergency requires it. The mobilisation of environmental protection associations has thus found strong support in our Assembly. In January 2018, a forum published in the newspaper Le Monde and signed by 249 MPs called for a ban on "this practice [which] shames Europe and decredifies us on the international stage". This position has had a decisive impact on the development of the European Parliament on this issue. Since then, we have always been determined to ban this practice, and 135 Members of Parliament from all walks of life have signed this bill. I thank them for that. Let me now remind you what electric fishing is. The technique is violent: it is a question of replacing the chains of pole trawls with electrodes, in order to facilitate, by sending electrical discharges into the sedimentary layer of the seabed, the removal and capture of flat fish such as sole, plaice or silt. The current used, known as "bipolar impulse", causes convulsions of violence such that 50% to 70% of large cod have fractured spine. And this method is described as ecological by its defenders! With hypocrisy, they argue that the efficiency of the electric fishing and the lightness of the trawlers employed require less fuel use. What a joke! Cost-effectiveness and efficiency are, of course, on hand, but it is at the cost of a total lack of selectivity that leads to the destruction of all the ecosystems affected by the electric current, at the cost of an accentuation of overfishing in the North Sea. In addition, electric fishing is in total contradiction with the principles of sustainable fishing that underpin the common fisheries policy. By destroying the resource without giving it time to rebuild, those who practice electric fishing saw the branch on which they were sitting. Dutch fishermen, the main users of this method, are no longer able to fish their quotas. The fish caught, often damaged by the electric current, are of poor quality and many chefs, distributors such as Intermarché or Biocoop or the Poissonnier association of France have given up offering them to consumers. While they are probably less known than their environmental consequences, the social consequences of electric fishing for French fishermen are no less serious. To this end, it is necessary to recall the framework within which electric fishing has been authorised in European waters and which engages in it. Many countries, some of which are not really known for their concern for the environment, have long banned electric fishing: China, the United States, Brazil, Russia and others. The European Union had done the same in a regulation adopted in 1998, prohibiting "the use of explosives, poisons, soporific substances or electric current" – electric fishing was therefore on the same level as poisons... We can wonder how she was finally allowed! In 2007, however, Article 31a of the same Regulation made it possible, in an exceptional and highly supervised manner, to use this technique. Electrical fishing was then provisionally authorized in an area strictly bounded to the south of the North Sea. Each Member State could equip up to 5 % of its fleet of electrode beam trawlers and electric power, as well as current voltage, were limited. But this exceptional regime has been largely exceeded: the Netherlands – as it is the Netherlands – has not complied with any of these rules. The Dutch are almost the only ones fishing – except for a few British vessels, and a few others which are partly or totally Dutch capital. Thus, eighty-four Dutch vessels are equipped with electrodes, whereas the regulations allow only fourteen. No French vessel is engaged in electric fishing. On the other hand, French fishermen, particularly artisanal fishermen in northern France, are subjected to unfair competition with tragic social and economic consequences due to the radical efficiency of electric trawlers. The fishermen of Hauts-de-France have thus seen a drastic decrease in the stocks of soles to which they have access: in 2018, only 213 tonnes of soles were landed at the auction of Boulogne-sur-Mer, compared with 706 tonnes in 2008. The fight is uneven: small vessels and fishermen attached to a territory set up very mobile vessels that empty an area and then leave a little further, leaving behind them an ecosystem devastated. Let us not be mistaken, behind the question of electric fishing is that of the model of fishing, and of the governance of the sector, which we want. I am of course in favour, with the MODEM Group as a whole, of defending a fishery of a human size, anchored in a territorial economy and creating jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u339	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u340	I have no doubt that the Committees on European Affairs and Economic Affairs, both of which have set up fact-finding missions on fisheries – in which Annaig Le Meur, Sébastien Jumel, Daniel Fasquelle... participate – will allow us to deepen this crucial reflection. We could have gone further and dealt in this bill with other matters related to electric fishing. However, we have chosen, for the sake of efficiency, an extremely simple text, with only one article, which scrupulously reproduces the terminology of the fourth paragraph of Part D of Annex V to the European Regulation. A simple law, therefore, a clear law, but a law! It seems to me important to ban electric fishing by legislative and non-regulatory means – this is a debate that we may have with the Government just now. Firstly, this decision should not be regarded as merely a technical measure relating to fishing gear. I stressed the seriousness of the damage caused by electric fishing to the environment and to French fishermen. The social, economic and environmental importance of this prohibition makes it necessary to include it in the law; All the people we heard agreed on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u341	Secondly, the discussion of this bill is a continuation of our assembly's commitment to electric fishing, concluding a constant and unanimous political movement. What started here must come to fruition here. During the discussion of this text in committee, our colleague Dominique Potier stressed the particularly interesting democratic path of the scheme: the first campaigns against electric fishing were born in civil society, before being relayed at national and European level by women and politicians of which we are part. It is then the European Parliament that has adopted a proposal for a regulation that gives us the opportunity to legislate today. This is a good example of cooperation between civil society and elected representatives, between national and European institutions, at a time when the poor functioning of these bodies and their dialogue are often deplored. The symbol is interesting. Finally, the adoption of this bill would, just a few weeks before the European elections, demonstrate our commitment to the European Union and to a common fisheries policy which is concerned with the protection of the environment and the preservation of the resource. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LR groups. – Mr Sébastien Jumel also applauds]] I was talking about a symbol right now. The symbol here is only valid if our approach is effective and the law actually passed in the shortest possible time. Let us therefore remain united and coherent on this subject and show the capacity, not only of the House, but also, I hope, of Parliament as a whole, to legislate quickly and unanimously when the social and ecological emergency so requires.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u342	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u343	Everyone is aware of the commitment of Erwan Balanant with regard to ecology, ecological transitions and fisheries, in particular to put an end to electric fishing. The Government shares the rapporteur's will and is in favour of this text, although there is debate as to whether the law will be passed before the Government adopts the ban on electric fishing. This question is not, however, one: in the coming weeks, the Government will issue an order prohibiting electric fishing while the law will continue its journey between the Senate and the Assembly. Thus, this important ban will be included in our texts. As you said, Mr rapporteur, the ban on electric fishing is the result of lengthy discussions at European level, which have not been simple. You have quoted the countries that no longer engage in electric fishing; However, I do not know if any controls are checking it. In Europe, we do not operate in the same way, and the European Union's will is to ban electric fishing. Let me briefly mention the importance of the European project for the French maritime fisheries sector, just a few weeks from the European elections and on this 9 May, European Day. This sector represents nearly 7400 ships in metropolitan France and overseas, about 16,200 sailors and several thousand jobs on land. Like the common agricultural policy and even more so, the fisheries policy is particularly integrated at European level. This bill allows the Government to clarify to national representation the economic impact of this sector. Fishing is absolutely essential: fish do not know borders. Fisheries resources are a common good that must be managed collectively. That is why most decisions must be taken directly at EU level, not at Member State level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u344	Yet the European Union sometimes does something stupid!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u345	We'll try to stop them, Mr. Lurton! However, the common fisheries policy should not be limited to the simple definition by Brussels of multiple measures which represent as many constraints for our fishermen. See, we agree! This vision must be refuted, because the common fisheries policy is the pooling of the waters of each Member State, thus an extraordinary opportunity for European vessels. It is on this point that the Government really wishes to insist. In this context, the first uncertainty facing the French fishery lies in the consequences of the outcome of the Brexit discussions. I would like to recall here that the Government is fully mobilized, with all of you, to retain two key aspects, both in the withdrawal agreement and in future relations. First, it is not acceptable that British waters should be prohibited for French vessels.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u346	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u347	The Government will make this point to the end.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u348	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u349	This has been said both by the President of the Republic and by Commissioner Michel Barnier, whom I thank for the work he has done in the negotiations: fishing cannot, and will not, be the variable for adjusting new discussions on Brexit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u350	We'll see to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u351	We'll support you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u352	On this point, Mr rapporteur, you are right, we need not only Members of the maritime fronts – including Mr Jumel, of course – but also the entire national representation. The second key aspect is the equitable allocation of fishing quotas. This is the whole debate we held last December in Brussels. These two discussions are consistent and concurrent. One cannot go without the other. As regards the state of resources, the latest scientific report on the development of the common fisheries policy submitted to the European Commission confirms that fishing pressure is falling sharply in the waters of the North-East Atlantic. The average operating rate now corresponds to the maximum sustainable yield. We cannot let it be said that the resource is in difficulty and that there would be overfishing. That is not true. The situation has returned to order. The evolution of French fishing practices and fisheries, as well as the attention paid to ecological aspects and the regeneration of the resource, have led to this result. I would like to point out here that the reduction in the fishing pressure enabling these results has taken place at the expense of the sector's considerable efforts, with, for many years, a reduction in fishing quotas and the number of vessels. I would like to commend the French fisheries which have made these efforts. That is why we cannot go any further today, and we must guarantee French vessels and fishermen that they can continue to do their job. [[Ms. Stephanie Kerbarh applauds]] In this context of continuous improvement in the state of the stocks, the economic situation is now generally favourable to French fisheries. However, I would like to strengthen the attractiveness of the sector and to respond to a paradoxical situation. Although employment opportunities are real in this sector, most shipowners, shipowners, do not find young sailors to hire. Our maritime high schools, rather filled, see their students leave France, for example to become skipper in turquoise seas, warmer, rather than working in the fishing navy, while unprecedented investments have been made, ships have been modernized, wages are high. Erwan Balanant gives me the opportunity to appeal to the French youth: if you have the taste of adventure, if you want to receive a training, go to maritime high schools – as in agricultural high schools, by the way. You will be trained, you will find a profession and you will be able to experience remarkable adventures! [[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LR groups]] I turn now to the position of the Government, before concluding. France naturally shares the rapporteur's position. I have here a map on which we can see Mr Jumel on his balcony opposite the United Kingdom, and a whole area that Erwann Balanant referred to, for which the Government will take an order in the coming weeks to prohibit electric fishing. This will be done in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u353	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u354	For the rest, the decision will be taken in 2021. I'll show you the map, Madam President,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u355	In principle, Minister, this is forbidden!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u356	[[Smile]] Excuse me, Madam President! So we'll act like I haven't shown anything! I conclude by saying that, for a small part of the North Sea, the Government will issue an order. For the rest, we will have to wait until 2021, but if the law continues its journey from the Senate to the Assembly, these provisions could be included. [[Smile]] I will not be longer, although there is still much to say about fishing and the sea. I will simply conclude by saying that the Government is fully committed to implementing this prohibition as soon as possible. Although neither our vessels nor our fishermen are targeted, the formal ban on electric fishing will help preserve the coastal strip of this practice by foreign vessels. Since the map has not been shown, you understand where the coast is. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully support the spirit and objectives of this bill for an effective ban on electric fishing. The decision of the European Commission is a real success for France, and once this law has been passed, it will be a strong point for our country. I had already answered a question to the Government here, giving its position. On all sides, we share the same objective, not only that of making the ban on electric fishing effective as soon as possible, but also that of accompanying fishermen in the economic, ecological and social transition of the sector I am carrying, and that of defending our European model of fisheries management. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LR groups]] The rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the MODEM Group, your proposal for a law accompanies this mobilisation. I thank you for submitting it, and the Government is in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u357	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1223.u358	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the proposed law on an effective ban on electric fishing. The meeting is adjourned.
